Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and Business. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities and the effects of competition. Forward-looking statements include statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, seeks, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks in greater detail in Risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our management's beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-K. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. You should read this Form 10-K completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. Corporate information Our predecessor company, TeleNav, Inc., incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1999 and we incorporated in the State of Delaware in 2009 as TNAV Holdings, Inc. Pursuant to stockholder approvals received in December 2009, our predecessor company merged with and into us on April 15, 2010. As the entity surviving the merger, upon completion of the merger, we changed our name to TeleNav, Inc. In November 2012, we changed our name to Telenav, Inc. Our executive offices are located at 4655 Great America Parkway, Suite 300, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number is (408) 245-3800. Our website address is www.telenav.com. The information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this Form 10-K. We file or furnish periodic reports, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or by sending an electronic message to the SEC at publicinfo@sec.gov. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Our reports, proxy statements and other information are also made available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at http://investor.telenav.com/financials.cfm as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such information with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K. In this Form 10-K, we, us and our refer to Telenav, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The names Always There Navigation, Chatbaka, Drive with Friends, Evie, Geobehavioral, Geocookie, gets you and gets you there, HopOver, LivingMap, Location Index , Location Score , MyTies, MyMileage, ONMYWAY, PickMeUp, RealReach, RoadAssist, Scout, Scout GPS Link, Sipity, skobbler, Situational Targeting, Smart Planner, Telenav, Telenav Connected Service, Telenav GPS Navigator, Telenav Navigator, Telenav Scout , Telenav Shotgun, Thinknear, Thinknear GeoVideo, ThinkPoliticalTrueDelta, and Whereboutz, as well as the Telenav, Scout, skobbler and Thinknear logos are our trademarks. All other trademarks and trade names appearing in this Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. ii Table of Contents PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Telenav is a leading provider of connected car and location-based platform services. These services consist of our automotive and mobile navigation platform and our advertising delivery platform. Our automotive and mobile navigation platform allows Telenav to deliver enhanced location-based services to auto manufacturers, developers and end users through various distribution channels. Our advertising delivery platform delivers highly targeted advertising services leveraging our location expertise. We report operating results in three business segments: automotive, advertising and mobile navigation. For our automotive segment customers, we offer our automotive and mobile navigation platform services to vehicle manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, for distribution with their vehicles. We believe our history as a supplier of cloud-based navigation services provides a unique advantage in the automotive navigation marketplace over our competitors. Our primary automotive customer to date, Ford Motor Company, or Ford, currently distributes our embedded, or on-board, product as a standard or optional feature with all of its models in the United States. Our automotive products are now included on models manufactured in North America, Europe and China, as well as in models in South America, Australia and New Zealand. In addition, in July 2015, Ford Australia and New Zealand adopted a map update program for its SYNC 2 generation of vehicles. Under this program, Ford owners with SYNC 2 or SYNC 3 in Australia and New Zealand are eligible to receive annual map updates at no additional cost through December 2023. In January 2014, we entered into an agreement with General Motors Corporation, or GM, for integration of our on-board and connected navigation solutions in its vehicles, which we expect to launch in model year 2017. Our relationship with GM also includes our mobile phone-based wireless connectivity, or brought-in, services for vehicles including GM's OnStar RemoteLink mobile application powered by our location-based services platform, which includes mapping and one-box search. In November 2015, the localized version of GM's OnStar RemoteLink was launched in Europe for GM's Opel and Vauxhall brands. In July 2015, we and Toyota Motor Corporation, or Toyota, announced a partnership for brought-in navigation services where our Scout GPS Link is available in Entune Audio Plus equipped model year 2016 and later Toyota vehicles in the United States. In August 2015, Toyota began shipping vehicles enabled to connect with our Scout GPS Link mobile application, and as of June 2016, the ability to connect to our mobile application is a standard feature or is available as an option on more than 75% of 2016 Toyota models in the United States. For our advertising segment customers, we believe our advertising delivery platform offers significant audience reach, sophisticated targeting capabilities and the ability to deliver interactive and engaging ad experiences to consumers on their mobile devices. We are experts in location-based advertising and believe we offer unique value to brick-and-mortar and brand advertisers through our location targeting capabilities. Our technology focuses on managing the complexity and scale associated with mobile location data to deliver better mobile campaigns for our advertising partners. We deliver mobile advertisements by leveraging our proprietary in-house ad serving technology. Our inventory, or accessible market, is comprised of thousands of mobile applications and mobile websites that are accessed through programmatic real-time bidding, or RTB, tools. We derive revenue primarily from automobile manufacturers and OEMs and advertisers and advertising agencies. We receive revenue from automobile manufacturers whose vehicles contain our proprietary software and are able to access our personalized navigation services. These manufacturers have typically not provided us with any volume or revenue guarantees. In addition, we have a growing business in mobile advertising where our customers are primarily advertising agencies, which represent national and regional brands, and channel partners, which work closely with local and small business advertisers. We also derive a declining portion of revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers, who pay us to enable their subscribers to use our mobile navigation services. We generate revenue from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in automotive navigation applications. For example, Ford utilizes our on-board automotive navigation product in its Ford SYNC platform. Ford pays us a royalty fee on SYNC 2 on-board solutions as the software is reproduced for installation in 1 Table of Contents vehicles with our automotive navigation solutions and pays us a royalty fee on SYNC 3 on-board solutions as our software is installed in the vehicle. In addition, we earn a one-time royalty for each new vehicle owner who downloads the GM OnStar RemoteLink application, whereby we provide enhanced search capabilities for contracted service periods. We also earn a one-time royalty for each new Toyota vehicle enabled to connect with our Scout GPS Link mobile application. We generate revenue from advertising network services through the delivery of search and display advertising impressions based on the specific terms of the advertising contract. We also generate a declining portion of our revenue from subscriptions to our mobile navigation services. End users with subscriptions for our services are generally billed for our services through their wireless carrier or through mobile application stores and marketplaces. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user, (2) a monthly or annual subscription fee per end user, or (3) based on usage. Our fiscal year ends June 30. In this Form 10-K, we refer to the fiscal years ended June 30, 2014, 2015 and 2016 and ending June 30, 2017 as fiscal 2014, fiscal 2015, fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2017, respectively. Our total revenue was $150.3 million in fiscal 2014, $160.2 million in fiscal 2015 and $183.3 million in fiscal 2016. Our net loss was $29.5 million in fiscal 2014, $23.1 million in fiscal 2015 and $35.3 million in fiscal 2016. Navigation Services Platform We have developed proprietary technologies that enable us to provide location-based mapping and navigation services. These technologies include both client-based and cloud-based services. Our client technologies include a navigation and guidance engine and tools allowing us to efficiently develop and deploy new applications for vehicles and mobile phones. Our back-end cloud services technologies allow us to deliver real-time location-based data for users and third party software developers that adopt our software development kit, or SDK, and application protocol interfaces, or APIs. We have developed a flexible platform that allows us to use multiple data providers for navigation, maps, points of interest, or POIs, traffic and other location-based content services. More recently, we have been expanding our offering of automotive solutions that utilize navigation to also enhance automotive OEM offerings of Advanced Driver Assistance Systems, or ADAS, and semi-autonomous capabilities. Such ADAS features use map attributes to tell the vehicle about upcoming road characteristics such as curvature and elevation. This information is used by the vehicle to improve fuel economy and safety. In January 2014, we acquired skobbler GmbH, or skobbler, a leading provider of technologies that enhance the Open Street Map, or OSM, mapping data. By combining these technologies with other proprietary Telenav technologies, we have developed a range of OSM capabilities that allow us to use these crowd sourced maps for more advanced services such as navigation. We deployed OSM as part of our Toyota solution, whereby Toyotas Entune Audio Plus equipped vehicles are enabled to connect with our Scout GPS Link mobile application. We believe that focusing our efforts on OSM will better position us relative to our competitors and expand the nature and extent of our product offerings. Our software and client application development processes, which include design, porting and publication processes, allow us to extend our services effectively and efficiently to different automobiles across various automotive platforms and in-car electronic systems to meet the requirements of automobile manufacturers and OEMs for our on-board and brought-in automotive products. Our back-end cloud technologies include our Geographic Information System, or GIS, engines for local search, voice recognition, geo alert and advanced geo data aggregation, traffic and a local advertising platform. We have developed customized voice recognition technology built upon a third party voice recognition engine to serve the specific needs of navigation services customers. We leverage our existing back-end cloud technologies for deployment to automobile manufacturer and OEM solution applications. We utilize existing technology to expand the connectivity and service offerings for in-car experiences, including seamless interaction between end users' mobile devices and on-board automobile systems such as displays, sensors and audio for our automotive brought-in navigation solutions. We have developed a search technology that focuses on information with localized relevance and accuracy to address the needs of automotive and mobile phone users. Our proprietary GIS provides fast route and map generation while optimizing the route based on current traffic conditions. Because our proprietary GIS efficiently uses computing resources, these efficiencies enable us to scale our servers more economically for our automotive brought-in solutions. 2 Table of Contents Advertising Delivery Platform Our advertising platform allows us to deliver mobile advertisements on behalf of our advertising clients to consumers based specifically on the location of the consumer. We have developed proprietary technologies that enable us to deliver location-based advertising across all types of mobile devices at scale. Our platform integrates location-enabled mobile advertising inventory with a number of contextual and location-based triggers to allow us to target mobile users based on rich location data. We have demonstrated that targeting based on location data is more likely to engage consumers. Our platform permits us to bid and deliver ad impressions through advertising exchanges in less than 30 milliseconds and to do so on billions of potential impressions every day. In addition, we have the ability to target our mobile campaigns based on a variety of criteria beyond location. Our platform was built to provide scalability through the use of machine-based decision processes, which allows us to execute thousands of campaigns, each with complex targeting criteria across multiple inventory sources. Services and Products Automotive Navigation Services and Products Industry background We believe the automobile industry is undergoing a significant change in the way that it develops and acquires technology for vehicles. This shift is impacting both the OEMs and the tier one suppliers to automobile manufacturers. Historically a car included a collection of relatively distinct functional capabilities, for example the radio, the air conditioning system and the braking system. Each system operated independently and thus could be provided by a different third party supplier. More recently, this piece-by-piece approach to assembling cars has been replaced with a much more comprehensive and systematic approach, which integrates a number of technology solutions within a vehicle. This transition is evident in the changes to in-car infotainment solutions, of which consumers are demanding better integrated and more feature rich experiences. This transition has impacted the delivery of navigation services in the vehicle. For instance, automobile manufacturers have begun introducing lower priced navigation units as a central component of on-board entertainment and information systems rather than as standalone units and are making navigation standard on more vehicles. These integrated units extend beyond traditional navigation units by combining audio and voice capabilities with wireless network connectivity to deliver real time location services, such as traffic, weather information and other connected data. Automotive navigation systems are typically on-board or brought-in. On-board services are the traditional service type with all key navigation elements of the system residing in the car as a self-contained service along with the related software and content, with the system not requiring access to the Internet or wireless networks to function. Brought-in systems are delivered wirelessly through a mobile phone or other device, such as a wireless modem, but use the car's internal electronic systems including the video screen and audio capabilities. In some cases, the on-board service is enhanced by the delivery of certain live data, such as current traffic conditions delivered wirelessly to the on-board system for display, which results in a type of hybrid service capability. Industry challenges The automobile industry is experiencing significant consumer demand for in-car connected services resulting from the availability of mobile phone-based Internet services which have reset consumer expectations. For example, current on-board navigation systems, or navigation systems that do not communicate with the Internet, are limited to the vehicle in which they are installed. The mapping and POI data is static, requiring time, cost and effort to update. Traditionally such systems have been sold as an optional feature for a one-time charge and as a result suffer from relatively low rates of adoption by consumers. Automobile manufacturers that can enhance the in-car experience with mobile connectivity and improved infotainment capabilities are finding greater acceptance from consumers, but the delivery of these capabilities is technically challenging and not a traditional part of the automobile manufacturer's capabilities. This challenge is driving automobile manufacturers to seek new partners to create differentiated in-car experiences. Automobile manufacturers and OEMs want to provide connected navigation services in a way that they can be used safely by the driver keeping hands on the wheel and eyes on the road and effectively integrate with large in-vehicle display or vehicle speakers, voice recognition and location sensors. In addition, the automobile industry has seen the recent introduction of in-car platforms and products such as Apple's CarPlay and Google's auto initiatives, including Open Automotive Alliance, which take control of the product and platform away from the automobile manufacturer or OEM and could diminish brand loyalty to the automobile manufacturer. Our competitive strengths Automobile manufacturers procure the various elements of each car that they manufacture from a number of suppliers directly and through OEMs. We work directly with automobile manufacturers such as Ford, GM and Toyota, as well as through 3 Table of Contents OEMs. Our strong track record as a connected and personalized navigation services provider to mobile phones and our history of working with large wireless carriers have provided us with skills and technology that are well suited to meet the demands faced by today's automobile manufacturers. The sales cycle related to automobile manufacturers is long and consultative and requires direct and continuous engagement with the automobile manufacturer and OEM providers to succeed in securing business. Often the automobile manufacturer uses the sales process to help it to define the ultimate product that it chooses to deliver to its end users in a way that not only enhances customer experience but also allows the automobile manufacturer to differentiate itself from the competition. Our success with brought-in and on-board navigation at Ford, GM and Toyota, and the continuing shift in emphasis to connected services has demonstrated the strength of our offerings to other automobile manufacturers and OEMs. It is our ability to bring innovative in-car user experiences that are optimized for the driving experience that sets us apart from other providers of phone based offerings, such as Apple's CarPlay and Google's auto initiatives. Our automotive services and products We entered the automotive navigation services business in fiscal 2008, initially with Ford, and our first brought-in navigation product was launched in Ford's model year 2010 vehicles. Since that time we have been working with automobile manufacturers and OEMs to provide our mobile navigation services and products worldwide through on-board and brought-in systems. Our technology powers automotive navigation services and products that provide accurate, easy to use and connected navigation services to drivers at a low cost. We currently provide our on-board GPS navigation software for Ford's second and third generation SYNC system under an agreement with Ford that expires in December 2017. The SYNC products are enhanced by Ford with the delivery of real-time traffic and historical information to help drivers search, find and drive to places more reliably and efficiently. In January 2014, we announced that we entered into a contract with GM to provide worldwide embedded and connected navigation services beginning with select model year 2017 vehicles. The agreement covers an initial three-year production cycle, which we expect to commence with select model year 2017 vehicles. Our relationship with GM also includes brought-in services for vehicles. In January 2015, GM launched the new version of its OnStar RemoteLink mobile application powered by our location-based services platform, which includes mapping and one-box search. Under the terms of the GM agreement, we expect our on-board and brought-in services to support navigation in more than 100 countries. In July 2015, we and Toyota Motor Corporation, or Toyota, announced a partnership for brought-in navigation services where our Scout GPS Link is available in Entune Audio Plus equipped model year 2016 and later Toyota vehicles in the United States. In August 2015, Toyota began shipping vehicles enabled to connect with our Scout GPS Link mobile application, and as of June 2016, the ability to connect to our mobile application is a standard feature or is available as an option on more than 75% of model year 2016 Toyota models in the United States. Our services and products allow our automobile manufacturers and OEMs the flexibility to use the full range of technologies to deliver on-board or brought-in services, as well as to enhance our on-board navigation services with live data such as traffic, fuel prices, fresh maps and POIs for enhanced user experiences by drivers. In addition, as the market transitions to cars that are always connected, we expect our service offerings to become more personalized. Platform and architecture Our offerings for on-board or brought-in automotive navigation services are tailored to meet the requirements of the automobile manufacturers and OEMs while leveraging our expertise with respect to client design and functionality. Our automotive navigation products also offer the capability to connect to our auto and mobile navigation platform for updated data and services. We have created an automotive reference product, or ARP, which allows us to show auto manufacturers and OEMs our entire product portfolio capabilities. Auto manufacturers or OEMs may then elect to configure the ARP to meet their needs as an on-board system or an on-board system with connectivity to live data services. In addition, we have designed custom versions of our navigation products to be exclusively cloud-based solutions for those manufacturers or OEMs seeking connected solution only services. Advertising Network Services Industry background The convergence of several factors is fundamentally changing the way mobile users consume content on their mobile devices and has created a significant opportunity for mobile advertising. It has become possible to deliver innovative, interactive and engaging consumer media experiences on a wide variety of mobile devices. Consumers are increasingly using their mobile devices instead of their personal computers and other traditional media to access content, particularly while they 4 Table of Contents are on the go. The convergence of powerful mobile devices and faster connectivity has enabled developers to create, and consumers to interact with, content that is instantly delivered to mobile devices. Mobile advertising provides advertisers with a number of benefits over traditional advertising media and PC-based online advertising, such as anytime, anywhere access, personalization, location targeting and relevance. The development of the mobile advertising ecosystem has mirrored the development for online PC-based advertising. However, a key differentiator of mobile advertising is the ability to identify the location of the user. Location is a powerful indicator of an individual's interests and likely actions. Therefore, advertising delivered to mobile devices has the potential to increase the impact and relevance of an ad to the user. With mobile advertising, an ad can be targeted to a consumer who is in close proximity to a specific location, such as a retail store, or to a consumer who may live in an area that advertisers wish to target based on demographics or other characteristics. Given the benefits of mobile advertising as compared to traditional offline advertising and PC-based online advertising, we expect and market studies indicate that marketers will continue to shift their advertising budgets to mobile. Industry challenges The mobile advertising marketplace is a dynamic, fast growing industry with many new participants. Advertisers are transitioning significant portions of their marketing budgets to the mobile marketplace where many of the traditional approaches to engaging customers are different and the means to reach their customers presents new challenges. These advertisers need to be able to conduct ad campaigns that achieve favorable return on investment, or ROI. ROI typically includes elements related to message reach, audience targeting capabilities and campaign effectiveness measurements. Advertisers are particularly focused on measures of effectiveness for mobile which are much less mature and defined than other advertising options. The mobile advertising marketplace is comprised of application developers, advertising networks, mobile agencies, advertising exchanges and demand-side platforms, among others. This environment is becoming nearly exclusively programmatic, meaning that advertisers are buying impressions across exchanges in real time based on their desired audience. The various market participants tend to focus on specific elements of the marketplace and each try to deliver unique technology offerings to assist advertisers. Some focus on targeting, others audience data and still others, including Thinknear, on the location information that makes the mobile marketplace distinct from all other advertising opportunities. Tracking the performance of ads in applications and user interactions with those ads is difficult and requires significant technological capabilities and know-how. Our competitive strengths Our mobile advertising solution combines the large and growing pool of mobile impressions marked with location information, a unique ability to focus on particular audiences, and dynamic user content customizable based on location. We have developed a number of techniques that allow us to differentiate between ad impressions that include highly-accurate location data and those that are inaccurate. Our proprietary Location Score Index measures the accuracy of location information within advertising impressions and the most recent index showed that only 32% of impressions were highly accurate. Our ability to effectively filter out inaccurate data is a key competitive advantage in the rapidly shifting mobile advertising space. Because of our ability to identify real-time and historical location data, as well as our ability to ingest contextual targeting data, we can focus our ads on specified demographics and advertiser defined customer segments. For example, an ad delivered in a geographic area where it happens to be raining can provide a rain-related message. An ad for sunblock can be limited to areas with a high level of sunlight and ultraviolet radiation. In addition, it is our ability to do this at significant scale that allows advertisers to reach their target audience. Our services and products Our advertising services are built around the ability to provide sophisticated location-based advertising in a manner that allows advertisers to connect with consumers on mobile devices. For example: Creatives - We run a wide range of creative ad units, including static, dynamic, mobile video and rich media content. Our creative allows national advertisers to easily localize their content without having to create thousands of individual campaigns. Our creative focuses on leveraging location data to incorporate local context such as distance to a store location, information on where to purchase a product or nearby events that could impact the potential consumer. Targeting - We offer a variety of targeting tools to our advertising clients to improve the performance of the campaigns. Our targeting includes both audience-focused tools centered on reaching specific customer segments and proximity based tools focused on driving foot traffic to retail locations and other direct-response related metrics. 5 Table of Contents Reports and metrics - We offer clients a broad range of reporting that allows them to monitor all their advertising campaigns and explains clearly what is happening at any particular point in time with respect to any of the campaigns being run. Our platform provides advertisers with a rich set of analytics and insights. Platform and architecture Our mobile advertising platform is hosted in the cloud, primarily by Amazon Web Services, or AWS. We leverage the flexibility and scalability of these cloud service providers to meet our scale requirements. Infrastructure and operations Navigation Services Our end users rely on our services primarily while on the road. As a result, we strive to ensure the continuous availability of our services through our high quality hosting platform and operational excellence. Data center facilities . We developed our infrastructure with the goal of maximizing the availability of our applications, which are hosted on a highly scalable and available network located in AWS facilities in Oregon and Virginia. We entered into hosted service agreements with AWS for primary resource capacity in addition to disaster recovery capacity. Pursuant to the service agreements, AWS provides leased facility space, power, cooling and Internet connectivity for a term of one year, and such agreements are subject to renewal. Advertising network services We developed our advertising network services infrastructure with the goal of maximizing the performance of our platform. Our platform is hosted on a highly scalable and available network provided by AWS. Our advertising platform has been designed to place significant focus on the location of any particular unit of display advertising made available for purchase on real time bidding ad exchanges. This focus on location provides our product with the speed and capability to more rapidly bid on the inventory that we believe is best suited for our customers' advertising needs. Our use of AWS provides significant flexibility with respect to service capability to meet any peaks in demand from our advertisers. Research and development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development and testing of our services and products. Our engineering team has deep expertise and experience in GPS and wireless and connected services and we have a number of personnel with longstanding experience with location services applications and scaling hosted service models. In addition, through our acquisition of Thinknear and our own internal efforts, we have developed expertise in real time bidding and advertising targeting capabilities. Our current research and development efforts are focused on: improving and expanding features, functionality and performance of our existing services; creating new applications, services and products for automobiles, mobile phones and mobile phone operating systems; developing key technology and content to reduce third party costs; developing innovative and engaging advertising products that allow for highly effective targeting of end users and provide for accurate measurement of behavior; and building features and functionality that allow OSM to be used as a substitute for commercial map services. Our development strategy is to identify features, services and products that are, or are expected to be, needed or desired by our end users. As of June 30, 2016 , our research and development team consisted of 451 people, 171 of whom are located in Santa Clara and Culver City, California and 280 of whom are located in Shanghai and Xi'an, China; Berlin, Germany; Cluj, Romania; and Incheon, South Korea. We have been successful in creating cross border capabilities in China, Germany and Romania for high value engineering at lower cost. Our U.S., China and Romanian research and development operations function together to 6 Table of Contents provide service and product development for our automotive customers. Our Romanian development efforts also focus on our OSM products. Our research and development expenses were $60.6 million , $68.1 million and $68.9 million for fiscal 2014 , 2015 and 2016 , respectively. Marketing and sales Automotive Navigation Services In connection with sales efforts directed at auto manufacturers and OEMs, we employ a sales team that focuses on targeted customers and responds to requests for proposal and related sales opportunities. The design and sales cycle for automotive navigation services and products is substantially longer than those associated with our advertising network services. The automotive sales cycle is long and consultative and requires direct and continuous management of the customer and OEM providers to succeed in securing business. Often the automobile manufacturer uses the sales process to help them to define the ultimate product that they choose to deliver to their end users. For example, design wins for vehicles may be awarded 12 to 36 months prior to the anticipated commercial launch of the vehicle. However, once we launch services with an automotive manufacturer, our application and services are typically bundled with the vehicles for multiple years because of the longer automotive product cycles. Advertising Network Services Marketing . We market our advertising services based upon our location expertise. We are building brand recognition and customer relationships based upon a consultative relationship with key advertising buyers, primarily advertising agencies. Given the mobile advertising marketplace is still in its infancy, we believe that we have an opportunity to influence the way buyers understand the advertising opportunity. Sales . We are highly engaged in direct sales efforts to expand the reach of our mobile advertising solutions. We strive to improve the efficiency and productivity of our sales force, which may result in an increase in our advertising sales headcount during fiscal 2017; however, individual sales representatives typically take six to nine months to become fully productive. Customers We derive revenue primarily from automobile manufacturers and OEMs, and advertisers and advertising agencies. We derive our revenue primarily from automobile manufacturers and OEMs whose vehicles contain our proprietary software and are able to access our navigation services. In addition, we have a growing business in mobile advertising where our customers are primarily advertising agencies that represent national and regional brands, and channel partners that work closely with local and small business advertisers. We also derive a declining portion of our revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers who sell our navigation services to their subscribers either as a standalone service or in a bundle with other data or voice services. We generate revenue from automobile manufacturers and OEMs for delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software for on-board and brought-in automotive navigation solutions. In addition, we earn royalties from brought-in services for vehicle applications powered by our location-based services platform. We typically enter into long term supply arrangements with our auto customers to provide our solutions across multiple car models in multiple regions around the world. We also generate revenue from advertisers and advertising agencies for the delivery of search and display advertising impressions based on the specific terms of the advertising contract. Our revenue from customers located in the United States comprised 94% , 96% and 97% of our total revenue for fiscal 2014 , 2015 and 2016 , respectively. We are substantially dependent on Ford for our revenue. In fiscal 2014 , 2015 and 2016 , Ford represented 46% , 61% and 71% of our revenue, respectively. We expect Ford to represent a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. We expect AT&T to continue to represent a declining portion of our revenue. In fiscal 2014 , 2015 and 2016 , AT&T represented 24% , 15% and 9% of our revenue, respectively. We provide automotive-grade GPS navigation software to Ford pursuant to an agreement dated October 12, 2009. We are the preferred provider for GPS on-board navigation integrated with Ford's second-generation SYNC platform during the term of the agreement, which expires in December 2017. The agreement may be renewed for successive 12-month periods if either party provides notice of renewal at least 45 days prior to the expiration of the applicable term, and the other party agrees to 7 Table of Contents such renewal. Our agreement with Ford also allows either party to terminate the agreement if the other party is insolvent or materially breaches its obligations and fails to cure such breach. Under our agreements with Ford, GM and Toyota, we have obligations to indemnify each of them against, among other things, losses arising out of or in connection with any claim that our technology or services infringe third party proprietary or intellectual property rights. Our agreement with Ford, GM and Toyota may be terminated in the event an infringement claim is made against us and it is reasonably determined that there is a possibility our technology or service infringed upon a third party's rights. We employ administrative, physical and technical safeguards to prevent unauthorized collection, access, use and disclosure of our end users' private data and to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. We do not use any end user data for direct marketing or promotions without the consent of the user and do not store any user location information that is specifically identifiable with an end user except to deliver and support our services. We are also required to comply with our customers' stringent privacy policies and standards. Intellectual property We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection and the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and still evolving. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services and products are available. We seek to patent key concepts, components, protocols, processes and other inventions. As of July 31, 2016, we held 97 U.S. patents and 91 foreign patents expiring between April 11, 2020 and March 13, 2035, and have 94 U.S. and 74 foreign patent applications pending. Of the pending 94 U.S. patent applications, 93 are nonprovisional utility patent applications and one is a design patent application. These patents and patent applications may relate to features and functions of our services and the technology platforms we use to provide them. We have filed, and will continue to file, patent applications in the United States and other countries where there exists a strategic technological or business reason to do so. Any future patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Any patents that may issue in the future with respect to pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. As of June 30, 2016 , we owned the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office registered trademarks for Geocookie, Goby, ONMYWAY, Scout, skobbler, Telenav, Thinknear and Whereboutz, as well as the logos for Telenav, Scout and skobbler. We also own the Telenav registered trademark in Canada, China, the European Union, Mexico and the United Kingdom. We have several unregistered trademarks, including the marks Always There Navigation, Chatbaka, Drive with Friends, Evie, Geobehavioral, gets you and gets you there, HopOver, LivingMap, Location Index , Location Score , MyTies, MyMileage, PickMeUp, RealReach, RoadAssist, Scout GPS Link, Situational Targeting, Smart Planner, Telenav Connected Service, Telenav GPS Navigator, Telenav Navigator, Telenav Scout , Telenav Shotgun, Thinknear GeoVideo, ThinkPolitical, and TrueDelta, as well as the Thinknear logo. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and with parties with which we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use or reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive with ours or that infringe our intellectual property. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on the success of our legal actions against these infringers, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. We also enter into various types of licensing agreements to obtain access to technology or data that end users utilize in connection with our navigation services. Our contracts with certain licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are payable regardless of the ultimate volume of revenue derived from the number of paying end users. Our most important agreements are with the providers of maps pursuant to which we generally pay a monthly fee per end user, a per transaction fee or a revenue sharing percentage for data provided based in each case upon a multi-tiered fee structure. We obtain map data from HERE North America, LLC, or HERE, pursuant to an agreement dated December 1, 2002. Our agreement with HERE was automatically renewed under its existing terms through January 31, 2017, and automatically renews for successive one year periods unless either party provides notice of non-renewal at least 180 days prior to the expiration of the applicable term. In addition, HERE is obligated to make available certain map data for our current automotive customers to fulfill their requirements as follows: for Ford (through December 2017); and for GM (through December 2019), which can be extended for an additional period of ten years and seven years, respectively. Our agreement with HERE also allows a party to terminate the 8 Table of Contents agreement if the other party materially breaches its obligations and fails to cure such breach. In late 2015, a consortium consisting of Audi AG, or Audi, BMW AG, or BMW, and Mercedes AG, or Mercedes, acquired Nokias HERE map business. In addition, we obtain other data such as map, weather updates, gas prices, POI and traffic information from additional providers. Competition The markets for development, distribution and sale of location services and advertising services are highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. We compete in the automotive navigation market with established automobile manufacturers and OEMs and providers of on-board navigation services such as AISIN AW CO., Ltd, or AISIN, Robert Bosch GmbH, or Bosch, Elektrobit Corporation, or Elektrobit, Garmin, HERE, TomTom and NNG LLC, or NNG, as well as other competitors such as Apple and Google. We compete in the advertising network services business with mobile platform providers, including Google, Apple, Facebook, Inc., or Facebook, and Millennial Media, Inc., or Millennial Media, xAD, Inc., or xAD, Verve Wireless, Inc., or Verve Wireless, PlaceIQ, Inc., or PlaceIQ, and NinthDecimal, Inc., or NinthDecimal, among others. Competition in our markets is based primarily on product placement and performance including features, functions, reliability, flexibility, scalability and interoperability; wireless carrier, automotive manufacturer and OEM and advertising agency relationships; technological expertise, capabilities and innovation; price of services and products and total cost of ownership; brand recognition; and size and financial stability of operations. We believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors based upon the performance, reliability and breadth of our services and products and our technical experience. Some of our competitors and potential competitors enjoy advantages over us, either globally or in particular geographic markets, including with respect to the following: significantly greater revenue and financial resources; ownership of mapping and other content allowing them to offer a more vertically integrated solution; stronger brand and consumer recognition in a particular market segment, geographic region or worldwide; the capacity to leverage their marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of products; access to core technology and intellectual property, including more extensive patent portfolios; access to custom or proprietary content; quicker pace of innovation; stronger wireless carrier, automotive and handset manufacturer relationships; more financial flexibility and experience to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and broader global distribution and presence. Our competitors and potential competitors advantages over us could make it more difficult for us to sell our navigation services and advertising network services, and could result in increased pricing pressures, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share or expected market share, any of which would likely cause harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Employees As of June 30, 2016 , we employed 583 people, including 451 in research and development, 51 in sales and marketing, 24 in customer support, data center operations, and advertising operations, and 57 in a general and administrative capacity. As of that date, we had 257 employees in the United States, 168 in China, 141 in Romania, 12 in Germany, three in Korea and two in 9 Table of Contents Japan. We also engage a number of temporary employees and consultants. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is a party to a collective bargaining agreement. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth the names, ages (as of June 30, 2016 ) and positions of our executive officers: Name Age Position Dr. HP Jin 52 President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors Michael Strambi 54 Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Salman Dhanani 43 Co-President, Automotive Business Unit Loren Hillberg 58 General Counsel, Secretary, and President and General Manager, Thinknear Hassan Wahla 44 Co-President, Automotive Business Unit Dr. HP Jin is a cofounder of our company and has served as our president and a member of our board of directors since October 1999. Dr. Jin has also served as our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors from October 1999 to May 2001 and since December 2001. Prior to Telenav, Dr. Jin served as a senior strategy consultant at the McKenna Group, a strategy consulting firm. Prior to that time, Dr. Jin was a business strategy and management consultant at McKinsey & Company, a management consulting firm. Dr. Jin was also previously a technical director at Loral Integrated Navigation Communication Satellite Systems, or LINCSS, a division of Loral Space & Communications, Inc., a GPS service and engineering company. Dr. Jin holds a B.S. and M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Harbin Institute of Technology in China and a Ph.D. in Guidance, Navigation and Control, with a Ph.D. minor in Electrical Engineering, from Stanford University. Michael Strambi has served as our chief financial officer and treasurer since June 2012. From November 2009 to June 2012, Mr. Strambi served as our vice president of finance. From December 2008 to August 2009, Mr. Strambi served as vice president and chief accounting officer of Silver Spring Networks, Inc., a provider of smart grid services. From February 2008 to December 2008, Mr. Strambi served as chief financial officer of Metacafe, Inc., a provider of online video services. From February 2006 to February 2008, Mr. Strambi served as vice president of finance of MobiTV, Inc., a provider of mobile media solutions. From 2002 to 2006, Mr. Strambi served in various positions, the most recent of which was vice president, controller and treasurer, with Macromedia, Inc., a provider of web publishing products and solutions that was acquired by Adobe Systems Incorporated. Mr. Strambi holds a B.S. in Business Administration with a concentration in Accounting from California State University, Sacramento and an M.B.A. in Finance from the University of Southern California. Salman Dhanani is a cofounder of our company and has served as co-president of our automotive business unit since January 2014. Mr. Dhanani served as our vice president, growth strategy and partnerships from July 2012 to January 2014, as our vice president, products from August 2010 to July 2012 and as our vice president, products and marketing from August 2009 to August 2010. Mr. Dhanani served as our executive director of marketing from March 2009 to July 2009 and as our senior director of marketing from November 1999 to February 2009. From January 1999 to November 1999, Mr. Dhanani served as a consultant at the McKenna Group, a strategy consulting firm. From July 1996 to December 1998, Mr. Dhanani served as an application engineer at Schlumberger Ltd., a technology consulting services company. Mr. Dhanani holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington. Loren Hillberg has served as our general counsel and secretary since April 2009 and president and general manager, Thinknear since October 2014. From January 2013 to October 2014, Mr. Hillberg served as general manager, mobile business unit. From September 2007 to September 2008, Mr. Hillberg served as vice president and general counsel at Force10 Networks, a privately held communications and networks company. From April 2005 to May 2007, Mr. Hillberg held various management positions, including executive vice president and general counsel at Macrovision Corporation (now Rovi Corporation), a publicly traded digital entertainment company. From May 1998 to March 2005, Mr. Hillberg served as senior vice president and general counsel at Macromedia, Inc., a provider of web publishing products and solutions that was acquired by Adobe Systems Incorporated. Mr. Hillberg holds a B.A. in Economics from Stanford University and a J.D. from the University of California, Hastings College of Law. Hassan Wahla has served as co-president of our automotive business unit since January 2014. Mr. Wahla served as our vice president, business development and carrier sales from August 2009 to January 2014 and served as our executive director of business development from May 2005 to August 2009. From April 2003 to May 2005, Mr. Wahla served as a senior product manager at Nextel Communications, a wireless communications company that merged with Sprint. From February 2002 to April 2003, Mr. Wahla served as vice president of business development of Wireless Multimedia Solutions, a privately held wireless software platform company. From September 1999 to February 2002, Mr. Wahla served as director of business 10 Table of Contents development at MicroStrategy, Inc., a business intelligence software company. Prior to that time, Mr. Wahla served as a senior consultant at Maritime Power, a maritime equipment company. Mr. Wahla holds a B.S. in Industrial Engineering from Virginia Tech, an M.S. in Management from Stevens Institute of Technology and a Masters of International Affairs from Columbia University. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous uncertainties and risks. The following risks and uncertainties may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. You should consider these risks and uncertainties carefully, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. If any of the risks or uncertainties we face were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risk related to our business We incurred losses in fiscal 2014, 2015 and 2016. We expect that we will continue to incur losses in fiscal 2017 and we do not know when, or if, we will return to profitability, as we make further expenditures to enhance and expand our operations in order to support growth and diversification of our business. As a percentage of revenue, our net loss was 19% , 14% and 20% in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our revenue from paid wireless carrier mobile navigation has substantially declined and we expect it to continue to do so. Our gross margin declined to 45% in fiscal 2016 from 51% in fiscal 2015 due primarily to the continuing increased proportion of product revenue contributed from our on-board automotive navigation solutions provided to our automotive customers and advertising services revenue, which generally have higher associated costs and resulting lower gross margins than our mobile navigation services provided through our wireless carrier customers. We anticipate that even if we achieve profitability in the future, our gross margin will continue to decline. We anticipate that we will continue to incur net operating losses in fiscal 2017, as we anticipate increased expenditures to operate our business. These expected losses are also due to the expected continued decline in our higher margin mobile navigation revenue. Furthermore, there has been a lengthy delay between the time we secured the award of a new contract with GM, and the timing of revenue thereunder, as well as a substantial required upfront investment in research and development resources for this new contract and contracts with other auto manufacturers and OEMs. We also believe continued investments are necessary due to the early nature of our advertising business. Although we are working to replace the continued decline in wireless carrier revenue, our efforts to develop new services and products and attract new customers require investments in anticipation of longer term revenue. For example, the design cycle for automotive navigation products and services is 18 to 24 months and in order to win designs and achieve revenue from this growth area, we typically have to make investments two to four years before we anticipate receiving revenue, if any. This is the case for our relationship with GM. In addition, the revenue commencement at initial launch may not be significant depending on the auto manufacturer's or OEM's launch timing schedule across vehicle models and regions. Once we are able to recognize revenue from new automotive products, we may be required to recognize that revenue over time if there are contractual service periods or other obligations to fulfill. Certain contractual service periods or other obligations currently extend up to ten years. We intend to make additional investments in systems and continue to expand our operations to support diversification of our business, but it is likely that these efforts at diversification will not replace our declining wireless carrier revenue in the short-term, if at all. As a result of these factors, we believe we will incur a net operating loss and that we will incur net losses at least through fiscal 2017 and we cannot predict when, or if, we will return to profitability. Our investments and expenditures may not result in the growth that we anticipate. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future. Therefore, you should not rely on the results achieved in any one quarter as an indication of future performance. Period to period comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below, many of which are outside of our control: the ability of automobile manufacturers to sell automobiles equipped with our products; the introduction of competitive in-car platforms and products, such as Apple's CarPlay and Google's auto initiatives; changes made to existing contractual obligations with a customer that may affect the nature and timing of revenue recognition, such as the transition by Ford to its SYNC 3 platform, for which we have different revenue recognition criteria; 11 Table of Contents the seasonality of new vehicle model introductions and consumer buying patterns, as well as the effects of economic uncertainty on vehicle purchases , particularly outside of the United States; the effectiveness of our entry into new business areas, such as advertising; the loss of our relationship, a change in our revenue model, or a change in pricing with any particular customer; poor reviews of automotive service offerings into which our navigation solutions are integrated resulting in limited uptake of navigation options by car buyers; warranty claims based on the performance of our products and the potential impact on our reputation with navigation users and automotive OEMs; the timing and quality of information we receive from our customers; the inability of our auto manufacturer customers to attract new end users; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the expansion of our operations and infrastructure through acquisitions or organic growth; the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies, products or businesses; the timing and success of new product or service introductions by us or our competitors; the timing and success of marketing expenditures for our products; the extent of any interruption in our services; potential foreign currency exchange gains and losses associated with expenses and sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar; general economic, industry and market conditions that impact expenditures for new vehicles, smartphones and mobile location services in the United States and other countries where we sell our services and products; changes in interest rates and our mix of investments, which would impact our return on our investments in cash and marketable securities; changes in our effective tax rates; and the impact of new accounting pronouncements. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results might lead analysts and investors to change their models for valuing our common stock. As a result, our stock price could decline rapidly and we could face costly securities class action lawsuits or other unanticipated issues. We are dependent on Ford for a substantial and increasing portion of our revenue and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed if our revenue from Ford does not continue to grow or declines. Ford represented approximately 71% , 61% and 46% of our revenue in fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. We expect that Ford, other automobile manufacturers and OEMs will account for an increasing portion of our revenue, as our revenue from paid wireless carrier provided navigation continues to decline. However, our revenue could potentially decline if Ford increases the cost to consumers of our navigation product, reduces the number of vehicles or the geographies in which vehicles with our product as an option are sold, or its sales of vehicles fall below forecast due to competition or global macro-economic conditions. Ford recently announced that it would open its SYNC 3 product to Apple's CarPlay and Google's Android Auto, which may reduce the number of vehicle purchasers who purchase built-in navigation services. We may not successfully increase our revenue from Ford if our products are replaced within vehicles by Ford with our competitors' products or from price competition from third parties. In addition, Ford is in the process of completing a global transition from SYNC 2 to SYNC 3. Since the timing of title transfer on SYNC 3 has changed and thereby impacted how revenue is recognized, revenue derived from Ford could fluctuate or be reduced in any given period across multiple geographies. Our agreement with Ford expires in December 2017 and also allows either party to terminate the agreement if the other party is insolvent or materially breaches its obligations and fails to cure such breach. In the event that Ford does not elect to renew our contract after December 2017, or chooses to renegotiate our contract on less favorable terms, our revenue may decline and our business operating results and financial condition could be harmed. The agreement may be renewed for successive 12-month periods if either party provides notice of renewal at least 45 days prior to the expiration of the applicable term, and the other party agrees to such renewal. We have limited experience managing, supporting and retaining automobile manufacturers and OEMs as customers and if we are not able to maintain Ford as a customer our revenue will decline. 12 Table of Contents Our automotive revenue could fluctuate due to the complexities of revenue recognition. Due to the complexities of revenue recognition in accordance with GAAP, when and if we generate revenue we may be required to recognize certain revenue over extended periods. For example, our contractual arrangements with GM for its OnStar RemoteLink, Ford Australia and New Zealand for its map update program, and Toyota for its Entune Audio Plus equipped vehicles require that we defer revenue and recognize revenue over the term of the connected services or contractual obligation. Revenue recognition could also be impacted by changes in procurement patterns, shipping terms and title transfer. For on-board automotive navigation, we recognize revenue as the related customized software is delivered to and accepted by our customers. In addition we recognize royalties earned from our on-board solutions. For example, we recognize revenue from our Ford SYNC 2 on-board solutions as the software is reproduced for installation in vehicles; however, we recognize revenue from Ford SYNC 3 on-board solutions as our software is installed in the vehicle. Accordingly, the timing of our revenue recognition is changing during Ford's global transition from SYNC 2 to SYNC 3. This transition has occurred in North America and China and has begun in Europe, and the nominal effect on revenue recognition was reflected in our consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2016. We anticipate that as Ford completes its transition to SYNC 3 in Europe and other international markets in the three months ending September 30, 2016, we will experience a lower level of orders as Ford uses its existing inventory of SYNC 2 product in conjunction with its transition to SYNC 3. As our solutions encompass greater value-added services, there is potential for changes in the timing of revenue recognition. In addition, given the length of our contractual obligations, which often extend beyond the manufacture and sale of the vehicle when the royalty is determined and paid, we may have significant post-production obligations to provide on-board services or other services such as map compilation over an extended period of time. Such extended obligations can result in a delay in recognition of revenue, or the need to defer and recognize revenue over an extended period of time. We may also incur significant expense to develop products for automobile manufacturers, such as under our worldwide connected navigation services agreement with GM, without ever receiving any revenue related to the sale of vehicles with our navigation services. Our ability to attract automobile manufacturers may also be limited if the OEMs chosen to provide navigation services have existing relationships with other navigation vendors or provide their own solutions. As our offerings in automobile navigation expand to brought-in, as well as built-in, we may not correctly anticipate the financial accounting treatment for the various products. We could be required to amortize revenue from products over time although we previously recognized revenue for similar products when the applicable vehicle was sold. We may not be successful in generating material revenue from automotive manufacturers and OEMs other than Ford. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed if we are unable to diversify our automotive revenue. Although we have attempted to mitigate our dependence on Ford by establishing relationships with other automobile manufacturers and OEMs, these relationships may not produce significant revenue if the products are launched in limited models or due to competition from third parties. Even if we are able to diversify our automotive navigation business through new arrangements, such as our more recently established relationships with GM and Toyota, customers may not elect to purchase automobile manufacturer and OEM navigation offerings that include our software and/or services for reasons unrelated to performance of our software or services. If customer purchase rates are less than anticipated, we may be unable to effectively diversify our automotive navigation revenue and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. We may be unable to enter into agreements to provide automobile navigation products if we do not offer navigation products that serve geographies throughout the world or automobile manufacturers and OEMs are uncomfortable with our ability to support markets outside of the United States. Our automobile manufacturer and OEM customers may choose to partner with providers of location services with extensive international operations. We may be at a disadvantage to attracting such customers due to our business being concentrated in the United States and we may not be successful in other geographies if customers are uncomfortable with the look and feel of our solutions. If we are unable to attract or retain such automobile manufacturer and OEM customers, our revenue and operating results will be negatively affected. We may incur substantial costs when engaging with a new automotive navigation customer and may not realize substantial revenue from that new customer in the short-term, if at all. The design and sales cycle for on-board or brought-in automotive navigation services and products is substantially longer than those associated with our mobile navigation services to customers of wireless carriers or our advertising platform services. As a result, we may not be able to achieve significant revenue growth with new customers from the automotive navigation business in a short period of time, or at all. In addition, these lengthy cycles make it difficult to predict when we will generate revenue from new customers, if at all. For example, design wins for vehicles may be awarded 12 to 36 months prior to the anticipated commercial launch of the vehicle. Our relationship with GM includes brought-in services for vehicles and in January 2015 GM launched the new version of its OnStar RemoteLink mobile application, but we cannot assure you that the RemoteLink project will lead to us receiving significant revenue in the short-term, if at all. We also entered into a contract 13 Table of Contents with GM to provide its worldwide connected navigation services beginning with select model year 2017 vehicles. We do not expect to receive any revenue from the launch of those vehicles until fiscal 2017 at the earliest, and in the course of the development of those vehicles we may be designed out altogether. We cannot assure you that when and if our products go into production and launch in GM vehicles and become available for sale, they will be in a wide variety of geographic markets in which GM sells vehicles in or across a variety of models and brands. GM has not provided us with any volume or revenue guarantees. In July 2015, we and Toyota announced a partnership for brought-in navigation services where our Scout GPS Link is available in Entune Audio Plus equipped model year 2016 Toyota vehicles in the United States. In August 2015, Toyota began shipping vehicles enabled to connect with our Scout GPS Link mobile application, and as of June 30, 2016, the ability to connect to our mobile application is a standard feature or is available as an option on more than 75% of model year 2016 Toyota vehicles in the United States. We cannot assure you that we will receive significant revenue from the Scout GPS Link project for Toyota in the long-term, if at all. As we have limited experience in the automotive navigation market, we also may not price our solutions in such a way that is profitable for us and enables us to recoup the development expenses we incurred to provide such solutions in the time we expect or at all. Development schedules for automotive navigation products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely delivery of these products to our customers. To the extent that we charge service fees beyond an initial fee at the time the vehicle is purchased, we may not be successful in gaining traction with customers to provide services and charge ongoing monthly or annual fees outside of the traditional on-board navigation service model. Our map, POI and other content costs for our automobile navigation solutions are higher than those we have historically paid for our mobile phone-based navigation services and to date we have not been able to use OSM offerings for automotive navigation, other than our Scout GPS Link mobile application for Toyota. If we are unable to improve our margins, we may not be able to operate our automobile navigation business profitably. If we fail to achieve revenue growth in any of our automotive navigation solutions (whether on-board, brought-in or other), we may be unable to achieve the benefits of revenue diversification. In addition, our third party automotive and mobile navigation content suppliers, HERE and TomTom, are also becoming competitors with their own automotive navigation services offerings. Our ability to build demand for our automobile navigation products is also dependent upon our ability to provide the products in a cost effective manner, which may require us to renegotiate map and POI content relationships to address the specific demands of on-board navigation applications. Our multi-platform products are new and may not find market acceptance. We introduced Scout, a service that end users can access for navigation and planning with their mobile phones and cars. We have not previously offered a planning service or a service that spans different platforms. We cannot assure you that automobile manufacturers and end users will accept our Scout service or, even if they do, that end users will adopt and use this service, which encompasses services different than our historical strength in navigation, or that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue from Scout to offset its costs. If we fail to develop innovative products that automobile manufacturers and end users adopt, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Further, Google and Apple have each developed technology platforms that they are marketing to auto manufacturers. If auto manufacturers adopt these platforms, they may also adopt Google and Apples navigation services that run on these platforms or offer Google and Apple's navigation services as one of a variety of alternatives and if so, consumers may elect to use these free service offerings rather than pay for our products which are currently sold as new car features with substantial cost to the consumer. The success of our automotive navigation products may be affected by the number of vehicle models offered with our navigation solutions, as well as overall demand for new vehicles. Our ability to succeed long term in the automotive industry depends on our ability to expand the number of models offered with our navigation solutions by our current automobile manufacturers. We are also dependent upon our ability to attract new automobile manufacturers and OEMs. For automobile manufacturers with whom we have established relationships, such as Ford, our success depends on continued production and sale of new vehicles with, and adoption by, end users of our products offered by such automobile manufacturers, when our product are not standard features. Our on-board solutions may not satisfy automotive manufacturers or end customers expectations for those solutions. If automobile manufacturers and OEMs do not believe that our services meet their customers needs, our products and services may not be designed in to future model year vehicles. As we move forward, our existing automobile manufacturers and OEMs may not include our solutions in future year vehicles or territories, which would negatively affect our revenue from these products. Production and sale of new vehicles are subject to delay from forces outside of our control, such as natural disasters, parts shortages and work stoppages, as well as general economic conditions. 14 Table of Contents Strategic transactions in the mapping and automotive industries could jeopardize our map pricing and, in turn, our competitive pricing for our automotive customers. A consortium consisting of Audi, BMW and Mercedes completed its acquisition of Nokias HERE map business in late 2015. Though the auto manufacturers have stated that HERE's map business will remain autonomous and continue to serve other auto manufacturers, there is a risk that HERE will increase its prices for maps to competitors of the group of companies that owns the consortium that acquired HERE. If HERE increases the price of maps, our gross margins, most notably in our automotive business, may be adversely affected by such increase in map costs. We may not successfully generate advertising revenue as a result of our acquisition of Thinknear if we are unable to attract and retain advertisers. Although our revenue represented by advertising has grown, advertising was 12% and 11% of our total revenue during fiscal 2016 and 2015, respectively, and may not grow as a percentage of revenue in fiscal 2017. In October 2012, we acquired Thinknear, a privately held California-based hyper-local mobile advertising company. Historically, the margins of our advertising business have been well below those we experience in our automotive navigation and mobile navigation businesses. We believe the advertising business is subject to varying buying patterns and seasonality which can impact our ability to grow our revenue. For example, in the three months ended December 31, 2015, we experienced higher advertising revenue as the second quarter is traditionally stronger due to seasonality; however, advertising revenue subsequently declined sequentially in both the three months ended March 31, 2016 and June 30, 2016. In order to grow our advertising business, we need to identify and attract a significant number of advertisers through our Thinknear platform. The mobile advertising market is highly competitive, and advertisers have many options through which to purchase mobile advertising. Our business will require us to attract and retain a large number of advertisers and will also require us to maintain the ability to purchase a large volume of inventory at competitively attractive rates. Increased competition from other mobile advertising companies and technology developers could impair our ability to secure advertiser revenue. Increased competition could also limit our ability to purchase inventory for advertising placements at an economically attractive rate. We do not have substantial experience in selling advertising and supporting advertisers and may not be able to develop these capabilities successfully. We may not be successful recruiting the number of sales personnel we need to scale or effectively train them to sell mobile advertising. Sales personnel may also be slow to ramp up their sales pipelines, negatively impacting our ability to grow. We may not succeed in attracting and retaining a critical mass of advertisers and ad placements and may not be successful in demonstrating the value of mobile advertising. If we fail to do so, we may be unable to generate a material level of revenue from advertising to offset the costs of providing free navigation. Even if we are able to increase our advertising revenue, we may not be able to improve the margins of our advertising business if we do not generate additional ad impression space within our own applications, such as Scout. If we are unable to improve the margins of our advertising business, it may not become profitable and may impair our ability to become profitable as a whole and invest in new opportunities. Our legacy wireless carrier mobile navigation business is declining and as it continues to decline, our revenue and net income or loss will continue to be adversely affected. We have historically been substantially dependent on two wireless carrier customers for a large portion of our revenue. Sprint ceased paying us for mobile navigation provided to its subscribers in bundles on September 30, 2013. Our other large wireless carrier customers have also experienced declines in monthly recurring revenue from subscriptions for mobile navigation. In fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , AT&T represented 9% , 15% and 24% of our total revenue, respectively. In the last three fiscal years, AT&T subscribers have materially decreased their subscriptions for, and usage of, our paid navigation services and our revenue from our relationship with AT&T has declined accordingly. We anticipate that AT&T subscribers, and subscribers of other carriers who pay monthly recurring charges for our services, will continue to decrease their subscriptions for paid navigation services in favor of free or freemium offerings and that our revenue from our relationship with AT&T will continue to decline. In addition, as AT&T shifts the manner in which our applications are loaded on their devices to one where users are directed to an application store, the rate of decline in our revenue from AT&T may increase as those subscribers may then search for free alternatives. AT&T may determine that the cost of offering our service to its subscribers outweighs the benefits if the drop off of subscribers continues. Our failure to maintain our relationship with AT&T would substantially harm our business and we cannot assure you that we and AT&T will be able to reduce subscriber erosion. We anticipate that even if AT&T remains a wireless carrier customer, our revenue from AT&T will continue to decline substantially during fiscal 2017 and beyond. Our experience has been that subscribers do not opt to pay monthly recurring charges for mobile navigation products and instead use free or freemium offerings. We have sought to develop other sources of revenue from our location-based platforms, including automotive navigation and location-based advertising, but those sources of revenue have substantially lower margins than wireless carrier mobile navigation revenue and, as a result, we would have to generate substantially more revenue from those services to replace the declining wireless carrier revenue. Our other sources of revenue have only recently begun to grow as fast as the declines in mobile wireless carrier revenue and we cannot assure you that this recent growth will continue. As a result of the lower margins on automobile navigation and advertising revenue, we anticipate that we will continue to incur net 15 Table of Contents losses in fiscal 2017 and possibly future periods. If we are unable to demonstrate to investors that we have developed stable, long-term revenue streams, the trading prices of our common stock may decline further and the trading volumes for our common stock may be low, adding to price volatility. Our customer requirements and content management are complex. If we inadvertently include content for which we have liability to the vendor but may not be entitled to payment from our customer, our financial condition and results of operation could be harmed. The nature and extent of content that is delivered as part of our navigation solutions is complex to manage. Matching the requirements of our customers with the content offered by our vendors may result in our inclusion of content which we believe is necessary to meet our customers requirements for which the customer may not have agreed to make payment to us. In addition, our customers speak directly to our vendors and often those conversations influence the expected content for our end products; however, customers may not be fully informed as to the license costs associated with the various components. Therefore, there is some risk that we may include content for which we have liability to the vendor but may not be entitled to payment from our customer. If these situations were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Mobile connected device users may choose not to allow tracking of their location information and therefore local advertising may not be feasible on their devices. The growth of our advertising revenue will depend on our ability to deliver location targeted, highly relevant ads to consumers on their mobile connected devices. Our targeted advertising is highly dependent on the consumers allowing applications to have access to their location data. Users may elect not to allow location data sharing for a number of reasons, including personal privacy concerns. Mobile operating systems vendors and application developers are also promoting features that allow device users to disable device functionality that consumers may elect to invoke. In addition, companies may develop products that enable users to prevent ads from appearing on their mobile device screens. If any of these developments were to become widely used by consumers, our ability to deliver effective advertising campaigns on behalf of our advertiser clients would suffer, which could hurt our ability to generate advertising revenue. Our business practices with respect to data could give rise to liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to consumer privacy and data protection. Our advertising services depend on our ability to collect, store and use information related to mobile devices and the ads we place, including a device's geographic location for the purpose of targeting ads to the user of the device. Federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data that we collect across our mobile advertising platform. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, regulations, policies and legal obligations relating to privacy and data protection. However, it is possible that these requirements may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with such laws could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities, consumers or others. Such proceedings or actions could hurt our reputation, force us to spend significant amounts to defend ourselves, distract our management, increase our costs of doing business, require us to change our advertising services or disclosures, adversely affect the demand for our services and ultimately result in the imposition of monetary liability. We may also be contractually liable to indemnify and hold harmless our users from the costs or consequences of inadvertent or unauthorized disclosure of data that we store or handle as part of providing our services. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is evolving, and various government and consumer agencies and public advocacy groups have called for new regulation and changes in industry practices, including some directed at the mobile and advertising industries in particular. It is possible that new laws, regulations, standards, recommendations, best practices or requirements will be adopted that would affect our business, particularly with regard to location-based services, collection or use of data to target ads and communication with consumers via mobile devices. To the extent that we or our clients are subject to new laws or recommendations or choose to adopt new standards, recommendations, or other requirements, we may have greater compliance burdens. If we are perceived as not operating in accordance with industry best practices or any such guidelines or codes with regard to privacy, our reputation may suffer and we could lose relationships with advertiser or developer partners. We operate in a highly competitive market, including competitors that offer their services for free, which could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers and end users. The market for development, distribution and sale of location services is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. Competitors may offer mobile location services that have at least equivalent functionality to ours for free. For example, Google offers free voice-guided turn by turn navigation as part of its Google Maps and Waze products for mobile devices, including those based on the Android and iOS operating system platforms, and Apple offers proprietary maps and voice-guided turn by turn directions. Microsoft also provides a free voice-guided turn by turn navigation solution on its Windows Mobile and Windows Phone operating systems. Competition from these free offerings may 16 Table of Contents reduce our revenue, result in our incurring additional costs to compete and harm our business. If our wireless carrier customers can offer these mobile location services to their subscribers for free, they may elect to cease their relationships with us, like Sprint did, or alter or reduce the manner or extent to which they market or offer our services or require us to substantially reduce our fees or pursue other business strategies that may not prove successful. In addition, new car buyers may not value navigation solutions built in to their vehicles if they believe that free (brought-in) offerings, for example Apple CarPlay or Google's auto initiatives are adequate and may not purchase our solutions with their new cars. Our primary competitors include location service providers such as Apple, Google (including Waze), Microsoft, HERE and TomTom; PND providers such as Garmin and TomTom; providers of Internet and mobile based maps and directions such as AOL, Apple, MapQuest, Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, Yelp, Foursquare and Fullpower; and wireless carriers and communication solutions providers developing their own location services. In the automotive navigation market, we compete with established automotive OEMs and providers of on-board navigation services such as AISIN, AW CO, Ltd, Bosch, Elektrobit, Garmin, HERE, TomTom and NNG, as well as other competitors such as Apple, Google, Microsoft and TCS. In our advertising business, we compete against Google, Apple, Millennial Media, xAD, Verve Wireless, PlaceIQ and NinthDecimal, among others. Some of our competitors and our potential competitors advantages over us, either globally or in particular geographic markets, include the following: the provision of their services at no or low cost to consumers; significantly greater revenue and financial resources; stronger brand and consumer recognition regionally or worldwide; the capacity to leverage their marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of mobile and non-mobile products; access to core technology and intellectual property, including more extensive patent portfolios; access to custom or proprietary content; quicker pace of innovation; stronger wireless carrier, automotive, handset manufacturer and advertising agency relationships; stronger international presence may make our larger competitors more attractive partners to automotive manufacturers and OEMs; greater resources to make and integrate acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and broader global distribution and presence. Our competitors and potential competitors advantages over us could make it more difficult for us to sell our navigation services, and could result in increased pricing pressures, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share or expected market share, any of which would likely cause harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to integrate future acquisitions successfully, our operating results and prospects could be harmed. In the future, we may make acquisitions to improve our navigation services offerings or expand into new markets. Our future acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate acquisitions and, if necessary, to obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and any mergers and acquisitions we complete may not be successful. Future mergers and acquisitions we may pursue would involve, numerous risks, including the following: difficulties in integrating and managing the operations, technologies and products of the companies we acquire, which is geographically remote from our existing operations; diversion of our managements attention from normal daily operation of our business; our inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of the businesses we acquire; our inability to retain key personnel of the acquired company; uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions; our dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and customers of the companies we acquire; insufficient revenue to offset our increased expenses associated with acquisitions; our responsibility for the liabilities of the businesses we acquire, including those which we may not anticipate; and 17 Table of Contents our inability to maintain internal standards, controls, procedures and policies. We may be unable to secure the equity or debt funding necessary to finance future acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will likely experience dilution, and if we finance future acquisitions with debt funding, we will incur interest expense and may have to comply with financial covenants and secure that debt obligation with our assets. We may be required to recognize a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired. We have recorded goodwill related to our prior acquisitions, and may do so in connection with any potential future acquisitions. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually or on an interim basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. Factors that may indicate that the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable include a persistent decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Furthermore, in fiscal 2015 we began to report results in three business segments, which requires the allocation of goodwill and intangibles to each of these segments. As a result, our impairment review each year or on an interim basis shall be conducted by segment, which can result in a different outcome than if assessed on an overall consolidated basis. Revenue from our mobile navigation business has been declining substantially over the last few years and continued deterioration of this revenue base can result in an impairment of the goodwill and intangibles assigned to this reporting unit. In addition, in January 2016 we decided to shift our focus in our advertising business from growth to profitability. In the near-term, we are taking actions to reduce our operating costs. We have not recognized any impairment of goodwill in the three year period ended June 30, 2016 . However, our mobile navigation revenue continues to decline, our efforts to focus on profitability for our advertising business may not be effective, and losses may continue beyond our expectations. As such, we may experience future write-downs of goodwill or other intangible assets. Warranty claims, product liability claims and product recalls could subject us to significant costs and adversely affect our financial results. We warrant our automotive navigation products to be free from defects in materials, workmanship and design for periods ranging from three months to seven years. If our navigation services or products contain defects, there are errors in the maps supplied by third party map providers or if our end users do not heed our warnings about the proper use of these products, collisions or accidents could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury or death. If any of these events occurs, we could be subject to significant liability for personal injury and property damage and under certain circumstances could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages. In addition, if any of our designed products are defective or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall campaign. These recall and warranty costs could be exacerbated to the extent they relate to global platforms. Furthermore, recall actions could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products, particularly if those recall actions cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. Warranty claims, a successful product liability claim or a requirement that we participate in a product recall campaign may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We accrue costs related to warranty claims when they are probable of being incurred and reasonably estimable. Our warranty costs have historically not been material. From time to time, we experience incidents where it may be necessary for us to expend resources to investigate and remedy a potential warranty claim. We maintain limited insurance against accident related risks involving our products. However, we cannot assure you that this insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages to others or will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, we may be named as a defendant in litigation by consumers individually or on behalf of a class if their handsets or automobiles suffer problems from software downloads from our customers. If we are unable to obtain indemnification from our customer for any damages or legal fees we may incur in connection with such complaints, our financial position may be adversely impacted. In addition, insurance coverage generally will not cover awards of punitive damages and may not cover the cost of associated legal fees and defense costs. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover an award, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement, damages caused by defective software and other losses. Our agreements with our customers include indemnification provisions. We agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred in connection with our navigation services or products, including as a result of intellectual property infringement, damages caused by defects and damages caused by viruses, worms and other malicious software. The term of these indemnity provisions is generally perpetual after execution of the corresponding agreement, and the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification provisions is generally substantial and may be unlimited. 18 Table of Contents In addition, some of these agreements permit our indemnitees to terminate their agreements with us if they determine that the use of our navigation services or products infringes third party intellectual property rights. We have received, and expect to receive in the future, demands for indemnification under these agreements. These demands can be very expensive to settle or defend, and we have in the past incurred substantial legal fees and settlement costs in connection with certain of these indemnity demands. Furthermore, we have been notified by several customers that they have been named as defendants in certain patent infringement cases for which they may seek indemnification from us. See Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings for a description of these matters. These indemnity demands remain outstanding and unresolved as of the date of this Form 10-K. Large future indemnity payments and associated legal fees and expenses, including potential indemnity payments and legal fees and expenses relating to the current or future notifications, could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may in the future agree to defend and indemnify our customers in connection with the pending notifications or future demands, irrespective of whether we believe that we have an obligation to indemnify them or whether we believe that our services and products infringe the asserted intellectual property rights. Alternatively, we may reject certain of our customers indemnity demands, which may lead to disputes with our customers and may negatively impact our relationships with them or result in litigation against us. Our customers may also claim that any rejection of their indemnity demands constitutes a material breach of our agreements with them, allowing them to terminate such agreements. Our agreements with certain customers may be terminated in the event an infringement claim is made against us and it is reasonably determined that there is a possibility our technology or services infringed upon a third partys rights. If, as a result of indemnity demands, we make substantial payments, our relationships with our customers are negatively impacted or if any of our customer agreements is terminated, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our investment portfolio may become impaired by deterioration of the financial markets. Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of June 30, 2016 consisted of corporate and agency bonds, asset-backed securities, municipal securities, U.S. treasury securities, commercial paper and money market mutual funds. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. Should financial market conditions worsen in the future, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from market liquidity and credit concerns. In addition, any deterioration of the capital markets could cause our other income and expense to vary from expectations. As of June 30, 2016, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio, and although we believe our current investment portfolio has little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, or credit availability, and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. We may be required to recognize a significant charge to earnings if our strategic private equity investments become impaired . We have in the past and may in the future enter into investments in businesses in order to complement or expand our current business or enter into new markets. Private equity investments are inherently risky and subject to factors outside of our control and no assurance can be given that our previous or future investments will be successful, will deliver the intended benefits, and will not materially harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our private equity investments is determined, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We recorded impairment charges of $1.0 million, $1.3 million and $0.3 million for cost-basis and equity method investments during fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate, which could reduce our anticipated income tax benefit in the future. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our effective tax rate may be affected by the proportion of our revenues and income (loss) before taxes in the various domestic and international jurisdictions in which we operate. Our revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. We are also subject to changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax and other accounting body rulings. Since we must estimate our annual effective tax rate each quarter based on a combination of actual results and forecasted results of subsequent quarters, any significant change in our actual quarterly or forecasted annual results may adversely impact the effective tax rate for the period. Our estimated annual effective tax rate may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, including: impact from our inability to benefit from the carryback of net losses expected to be incurred in fiscal 2016 and thereafter due to the limitations of the two year loss carryback for federal tax purposes. changes in forecasted annual operating income or loss by jurisdiction; 19 Table of Contents changes in relative proportions of revenue and income or loss before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate; changes to the valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets; changes to actual or forecasted permanent differences between book and tax reporting, including the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and non-recurring charges which may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; impact from any future tax settlements with state, federal or foreign tax authorities; impact from increases or decreases in tax reserves due to new assessments of risk, the expiration of the statute of limitations or the completion of government audits; impact from changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; impact from withholding requirements in various non-U.S. jurisdictions and our ability to recoup those withholdings, which may depend on how much revenue we have in a particular jurisdiction to offset the related expenses; impact from acquisitions and related integration activities; or impact from new FASB requirements. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in future periods. In fiscal 2014, we recorded a valuation allowance on the majority of our deferred tax assets, net of liabilities since the assets are not more likely than not to be realized based upon our assessment of all positive and negative evidence. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable earnings, the timing of which is uncertain. Due to losses in fiscal 2014, 2015 and 2016 and potentially future years in the United States, we maintained a full valuation allowance on deferred tax assets in the United States. Due to foreign operating losses in previous years and continued foreign earnings volatility, we continued to maintain a full valuation allowance for our foreign deferred tax assets in China and the United Kingdom. In the event deferred tax assets in Germany cannot be realized based upon the ability to generate future income in Germany, our effective tax rate would be negatively impacted. Changes in accounting principles, or interpretations thereof, could have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Additionally, the adoption of new or revised accounting principles may require that we make significant changes to our systems, processes and controls. For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, is currently working together with the International Accounting Standards Board, or IASB, on several projects to further align accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies who are required to follow GAAP under SEC regulations and those who are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards outside of the United States. These efforts by the FASB and IASB may result in different accounting principles under GAAP that may result in materially different financial results for us in areas including, but not limited to, principles for recognizing revenue and lease accounting. Additionally, significant changes to GAAP resulting from the FASBs and IASBs efforts may require that we change how we process, analyze and report financial information and that we change financial reporting controls. It is not clear if or when these potential changes in accounting principles may become effective, whether we have the proper systems and controls in place to accommodate such changes and the impact that any such changes may have on our financial position and results of operations. We rely on our customers for timely and accurate subscriber and vehicle sales information. A failure or disruption in the provisioning of this data to us would materially and adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. We rely on our automotive and OEM customers to provide us with reports on the number of vehicles they sell with our on-board and brought-in navigation services included and to remit royalties for those sales to us. We also rely on our wireless carrier customers to bill subscribers and collect monthly fees for our mobile navigation services, either directly or through third party service providers. If our customers or their third party service providers provide us with inaccurate data or experience errors or outages in their own billing and provisioning systems when performing these services, our revenue may be less than anticipated or may be subject to adjustment with the customer. In the past, we have experienced errors in reporting from auto 20 Table of Contents manufacturers and wireless carriers. If we are unable to identify and resolve discrepancies in a timely manner, our revenue may vary more than anticipated from period to period and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on a proprietary provisioning and reporting system to track end user activation, deactivation and usage data and any material failures in this system could harm our revenue, affect our costs and impair our ability to manage our business effectively. Our provisioning and reporting system that authenticates end users and tracks the number of end users and their use of our services is a proprietary and customized system that we developed internally. Although we believe that the flexibility of this service to integrate tightly with auto manufacturers' and wireless carriers reporting and provisioning systems gives us a competitive advantage, we might lose revenue and the ability to manage our business effectively if the system were to experience material failures or be unable to scale as our business grows. In addition, we may not be able to report our financial results on a timely basis if our customers question the accuracy of our records or we experience significant discrepancies between the data generated by our provisioning and reporting systems and data generated by their systems, or if our systems fail or we are unable to report timely and accurate information to our third party data providers. The inability to timely report our financial results would impair the quality of our financial reporting and could result in the delisting of our common stock. If our end users increase their usage of our services, our operating loss may increase, or we may incur larger losses because we offer the service as a free offering or usage for paid offerings outpaces our expectations. With limited exceptions, fees for the use of our services do not vary depending on whether or how often an end user uses our services, and we offer certain of our mobile phone based navigation services for free. Historically, end users using certain mobile phones or under certain service plans tended to use our services more than other end users. We budget and operate our services by making certain assumptions about usage patterns. If our end users were to further increase their usage of our services substantially or more end users access our services for free through a freemium model, we would incur additional expenses to expand our server capacity through our use of third party hosted services and pay additional third party content fees. These additional costs would harm our operating results and financial condition. We rely on third party data and content to provide our services and if we were unable to obtain content at reasonable prices, or at all, our gross margins and our ability to provide our services would be harmed. We rely on third party data and content to provide our services, including map data, POI, traffic information, gas prices and weather information. If our suppliers of this data or content were to enter into exclusive relationships with other providers of location services or were to discontinue providing such information and we were unable to replace them cost effectively, or at all, our ability to provide our services would be harmed. Our gross margins may also be affected if the cost of third party data and content increases substantially. Although we have recently announced efforts to use OSM data to reduce the expenses we incur for third party map data, we may not be successful at integrating OSM data into our products and may experience difficulty with customer acceptance if the quality of the consumer generated data within OSM is lower than that of paid maps. We introduced mobile phone-based navigation with OSM and launched our first brought-in automotive navigation service with OSM in 2015. As a result, we may not have sufficient data for automotive manufacturers and OEMs to feel comfortable electing to use OSM in the products and services we provide them. We obtain map data from TomTom and HERE, which are companies owned by our current and potential competitors. Accordingly, these third party data and content providers may act in a manner that is not in our best interest. For example, they may cease to offer their map and POI data to us. We entered into a new TomTom agreement effective as of January 1, 2016 to license TomTom map data for voice-guided turn by turn GPS navigation service for our existing mobile navigation products through December 31, 2016. The term of our TomTom agreement automatically renews for additional one-year periods until December 31, 2018, by which time the term of our TomTom agreement shall not be further renewed. Our agreement with HERE was automatically renewed under its existing terms through January 31, 2017, and automatically renews for successive one year periods unless either party provides notice of non-renewal at least 180 days prior to the expiration of the applicable term. HERE was acquired by a consortium of German automobile manufacturers in late 2015, and the sale of HERE may increase our costs if HERE does not agree to the automatic renewal of our existing agreement in the future. We may identify other requisite content and content-related technologies, including certain geocoding data necessary for our OSM products, that we may be unable to license or develop internally. If we are unsuccessful in these endeavors, we may be unable to successfully launch our OSM-based products globally and across all desired product offerings. We may not be able to upgrade our navigation services platform to support certain advanced features and functionality without obtaining technology licenses from third parties. Obtaining these licenses may be costly and may delay the introduction of such features and functionality, and these licenses may not be available on commercially favorable terms, or at all. The inability to offer advanced features or functionality, or a delay in our ability to upgrade our navigation services platform, may adversely affect consumer demand for our navigation services and, consequently, harm our business. 21 Table of Contents We also use our proprietary provisioning and reporting system to record and report royalties we owe to third party providers of content used by end users in connection with our services. Certain of the third party content providers have the right to audit our use of their services and, if we were found to have under or incorrectly reported usage, we may be required to pay the third party content providers for the actual usage, as well as interest and the cost of the audit. Any significant error in our recording and payment of royalties to our third party content providers could have a material and adverse effect on our financial results. We may also incur losses as a result of any significant error. Network failures, disruptions or capacity constraints in our third party hosted data center facilities could affect the performance of our navigation services and harm our reputation and our revenue. We use hosted services provided by AWS and wireless carrier networks to deliver our navigation and advertising platform services. Our operations rely to a significant degree on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the third party data centers we use. In the event that AWS experiences a disruption in services or a natural disaster, our ability to continue providing our services would be compromised. Depending on the growth rate in the number of our end users and their usage of our services, if we do not timely complete the negotiation for and scale of additional hosting services, we may experience capacity issues, which could lead to service failures and disruptions. In addition, if we are unable to secure third party hosting services with appropriate power, cooling and bandwidth capacity, we may be unable to efficiently and effectively scale our business to manage the addition of new wireless carrier customers, increases in the number of our end users or increases in data traffic. AWS hosting services are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including fire, flood, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications or computer systems failure, human error, terrorist acts or other events. We have not yet completed a comprehensive business continuity plan and there can be no assurance that the measures implemented by us to date, or measures implemented by us in the future, to manage risks related to network failures or disruptions in our data centers will be adequate, or that the redundancies built into our servers will work as planned in the event of network failures or other disruptions. In particular, if we experienced damage or interruptions to AWS hosting services our ability to provide efficient and uninterrupted operation of our services would be significantly impaired. We could also experience failures of our data centers or interruptions of our services, or other problems in connection with our operations, as a result of: damage to or failure of our computer software or hardware or our connections and outsourced service arrangements with third parties; errors in the processing of data; computer viruses or software defects; physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; or errors by our employees or third party service providers. Poor performance in or disruptions of our services could harm our reputation, delay market acceptance of our services and subject us to liabilities. Our wireless carrier agreements require us to meet at least 99.9% operational uptime requirements, excluding scheduled maintenance periods, or be subjected to penalties. Any outage in a network or system, or other unanticipated problem that leads to an interruption or disruption of our navigation services, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to enhance our location services to keep pace with technological and market developments, or develop new location services in a timely manner or at competitive prices. The market for location services is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. To keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasing customer requirements and achieve product acceptance, our future success depends upon our ability to enhance our current navigation services platform and advertising services platforms and to continue to develop and introduce new navigation services, advertising services and other location-based product offerings and enhanced performance features and functionality on a timely basis at competitive prices. Our inability, for technological or other reasons, to enhance, develop, introduce or deliver compelling services and products in a timely manner, or at all, in response to changing market conditions, technologies or consumer expectations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or could result in our services becoming obsolete. Our ability to compete successfully will depend in large measure on our ability to maintain a technically skilled development and engineering team and to adapt to technological changes and advances in the industry, including providing for the continued compatibility of our services platform with evolving industry standards and protocols and competitive network operating environments. 22 Table of Contents A large percentage of our research and development operations are conducted in China and Romania, and our ability to introduce new services and support our existing services cost effectively depends on our ability to manage those remote development sites successfully. Our success depends on our ability to enhance our current services and develop new services and products rapidly and cost effectively. A majority of our research and development personnel are in China and Romania. Although we have sought to retain certain key personnel, we may be unable to retain them over the long-term. In addition, we have been experiencing significant increases in compensation costs in China due to competitive market conditions for qualified staff, as well as higher risk of employee turnover in certain China markets. We also expect that we may continue to consolidate certain of our operations or reduce our workforce if we are unable to continue to replace wireless carrier revenue with other sources of high gross margin revenue. These reorganizations or reductions in force could result in unexpected costs or delays in product development that could impair our ability to meet market windows or cause us to forego certain new product opportunities. Because our long term success depends on our ability to increase the number of end users located outside of the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. As of June 30, 2016 , we had international operations in China, Romania, Germany, Mexico, Japan and South Korea. Our experience with wireless carriers, automobile manufacturers and OEMs and advertisers outside the United States is limited. Our revenue from customers in the United States comprised 97% and 96% of our total revenue for fiscal 2016 and 2015 , respectively. However, our product is distributed globally in many different regions outside the United States, including South America, Europe, Asia, Australia, China and New Zealand. Our limited experience in operating our business outside the United States increases the risk that our current and future international expansion efforts may not be successful. In particular, our business model may not be successful in particular countries or regions outside the United States for reasons that we currently do not anticipate. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These include: fluctuations in currency exchange rates; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; difficulties in managing the staffing of remote operations; potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems, foreign tax withholding, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and changes in tax rates; dependence on foreign wireless carriers with different pricing models; roaming charges to end users; availability of reliable mobile networks in those countries; requirements that we comply with local telecommunication regulations and automobile hands free laws in those countries; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; political, social and economic instability in some jurisdictions; terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our operating results. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish, acquire or integrate operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability and we may incur larger losses as a result. We may not succeed in realizing the anticipated benefits of our joint venture in China. In September 2015, we entered into an agreement with Ningbo Huazhong Holdings Company Limited, or Huazhong, a subsidiary of a publicly traded automotive OEM supplier in China, whereby we and Huazhong agreed to form a joint venture limited liability company in China for the development, manufacture and sales of connected navigation systems for the China automotive aftermarket and local OEMs. We have not made any capital contributions to the joint venture, and the parties are currently renegotiating the nature, timing and amounts of capital to be contributed. In addition to the general risks associated with international operations, the joint venture, in which we expect to hold a 19.9% interest, is subject to a number of other risks and uncertainties, including the following: 23 Table of Contents Our reliance is, in part, on the operational skill of our joint venture partner. Additionally, because we will be the minority equity holder of the joint venture, we may not have the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies of the entity. For these reasons, or as a result of other factors, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the joint venture, and our participation in the joint venture could adversely affect the results of our operations. Our ability to operate the joint venture is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to attract personnel with the skills, knowledge and experience necessary to carry out the operations of the joint venture. We face intense competition for these individuals worldwide, including in China. We may not be able to attract qualified employees to operate the joint venture, which may negatively affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. Although we believe we have achieved a strong market position in China, many of our competitors who are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources, more stable manufacturing resources and greater brand strength are also concentrating on growing their businesses in China. In addition, the number of competitors in the marketplace has increased significantly in recent years. Increased investment by our competitors in this market could decrease our market share and competitive position in China. We rely on our management team and need specialized personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success and future growth depend on the skills, working relationships and continued services of our management team. Our future performance will depend on our ability to continue to retain our senior management, particularly in the growth areas of our business, such as automotive and advertising. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel in the United States and internationally. All of our U.S. employees work for us on an at will basis. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, particularly in the software industry and for persons with experience with GPS and location services. The high degree of competition for personnel we experience has resulted in and may also continue to result in the incurrence of significantly higher compensation costs to attract, hire and retain employees. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in attracting, hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In addition, existing employees often consider the value of the stock awards they receive in connection with their employment. If our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain highly skilled employees. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel could adversely affect our business and future growth prospects. We may be required to incur unanticipated capital expenditures. Circumstances may arise that require us to make unanticipated capital expenditures, including: requirements to replace outsourced hosting with third party data centers for which we provide equipment due to cost, natural disasters or inadequate quality of services; the replacement of outdated or failing equipment; and the acquisition of key technologies to support or expand our products and services. We rely on network infrastructure provided by our wireless carrier customers, mobile phones and in-car wireless connections for the delivery of our mobile navigation services to end users. We generally provide our navigation services from third party hosted servers, which require close integration with the wireless carriers networks. We may be unable to provide high quality services if the wireless carriers networks perform poorly or experience delayed response times. Our future success will depend on the availability and quality of our wireless carrier customers networks in the United States and abroad to run our mobile navigation services. This includes deployment and maintenance of reliable networks with the speed, data capacity and security necessary to provide reliable wireless communications services. We do not establish or maintain these wireless networks and have no control over interruptions or failures in the deployment and maintenance by wireless carrier customers of their network infrastructure. In addition, these wireless network infrastructures may be unable to support the demands placed on them if the number of subscribers increases, or if existing or future subscribers increase their use of limited bandwidth. Market acceptance of our mobile navigation services will depend in part on the quality of these wireless networks and the ability of our wireless carrier customers to effectively manage their subscribers expectations. In addition, certain automobile navigation applications rely on wireless connections between the vehicle and our network. We have no influence or control over the vehicles wireless equipment and if it does not operate in a satisfactory manner, our ability to provide those services would be impaired and our reputation would be harmed. 24 Table of Contents Wireless communications have experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of infrastructure and equipment failures and could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could affect our ability to provide our navigation services successfully. In addition, changes by a wireless carrier to its network infrastructure may interfere with the integration of our servers with their network and delivery of our navigation services and may cause end users to lose functionality for services they have already purchased. Any of the foregoing could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot control the quality standards of our wireless carrier customers, their mobile phone providers, automobile manufacturers and other technology customers. We cannot guarantee that the mobile phones or in-car wireless equipment are free from errors or defects. If errors or defects occur in mobile phones or services offered by our wireless carrier customers, it could result in consumers terminating our services, damage to our reputation, increased customer service and support costs, warranty claims, lost revenue and diverted development resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Mergers, consolidations or other strategic transactions in the mapping data industry could weaken our competitive position, reduce the number of our map providers and adversely affect our business. The mapping data industry continues to experience consolidation. Should one of our map providers consolidate or enter into an alliance with another navigation provider, this could have a material adverse impact on our business. Currently, two of our map suppliers are owned by competitors in the navigation space. Recently, Nokia sold its mobile phone business to Microsoft and sold HERE, its mapping business, to a consortium of German automobile manufacturers. Such a consolidation may cause us to lose a map supplier or require us to increase the royalties we pay to map vendors as a result of enhanced supplier leverage, which would have a negative effect on our business. We may be unable to replace our map suppliers, were we to lose a map supplier, and the remaining map supplier may increase license fees. In addition, as we continue to use more OSM-based maps and no longer purchase maps from those suppliers, we may be unable to purchase other data that is integral to our navigation products from our existing map suppliers. Changes in business direction and market conditions could lead to charges related to structural reorganization and discontinuation of certain products or services, which may adversely affect our financial results. In response to changing market conditions and the desire to focus on new and more potentially attractive opportunities, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, eliminating, or otherwise exiting certain business activities. For example, in April 2013, we sold our enterprise business to a third party, which resulted in a net gain to us but also required us to provide transition services to the buyer. In the fourth quarters of fiscal 2013 and 2014, in order to better align and focus our resources we initiated restructuring plans resulting in reductions of approximately 83 and 108 full-time positions, respectively, and restructuring charges of $1.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively, related to severance and benefits for the positions eliminated. Any decision to reduce investment in, dispose of, or otherwise exit business activities may result in the recording of special charges, such as workforce reduction and excessive facility space costs. Risks related to our intellectual property and regulation We operate in an industry with extensive intellectual property litigation. Claims of infringement against us, our customers, or other business partners may cause our business, operating results and financial condition to suffer. Our commercial success depends in part upon us, our partners and our customers not infringing intellectual property rights owned by others and being able to resolve claims of intellectual property infringement without major financial expenditures and/or need to alter our technologies or cease certain activities. We operate in an industry with extensive intellectual property litigation and it is not uncommon for our wireless carrier customers, handset manufacturing partners, automobile manufacturers and OEMs and competitors to be involved in infringement lawsuits by or against third parties. Many industry participants that own, or claim to own, intellectual property aggressively assert their rights, and our customers and other business partners, who we agree in certain circumstances to indemnify for intellectual property infringement claims related to our services, are often targets of such assertions. We cannot determine with certainty whether any existing or future third party intellectual property rights would require us to alter our technologies, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. We have received, and may in the future receive, claims from third parties alleging infringement and other related claims. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we were named as a defendant in several cases alleging that our services infringe other parties' patents, as well as other matters. See Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for a description of these matters. These cases and future litigation may make it necessary to defend ourselves and our customers and other business partners by determining the scope, enforceability and validity of third party proprietary rights or to establish our proprietary rights. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater resources than we do and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. In addition, patent holding companies that focus solely on extracting royalties and settlements by enforcing patent rights may target us, our wireless carrier customers or our other business partners. These companies typically have little or no product revenue and therefore our patents may provide little or no deterrence against such companies filing patent infringement lawsuits against us. 25 Table of Contents Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights have any merit, these claims are time consuming and costly to evaluate and defend and could: adversely affect our relationships with our current or future customers and other business partners; cause delays or stoppages in the shipment of Telenav enabled or preloaded mobile phones or vehicles, or cause us to modify or suspend the provision of our navigation services; cause us to incur significant expenses in defending claims brought against our customers, other business partners or us; divert management's attention and resources; subject us to significant damages or settlements; require us to enter into settlements, royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms; or require us or our business partners to cease certain activities and/or modify our products or services. In addition to liability for monetary damages against us or, in certain circumstances, our customers, we may be prohibited from developing, commercializing or continuing to provide certain of our navigation services unless we obtain licenses from the holders of the patents or other intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and we could, for example, be required to cease offering our navigation services or be required to materially alter our navigation services, which could involve substantial costs and time to develop. Unauthorized control or manipulation of our systems in vehicles may cause them to operate improperly or not at all, or compromise their safety and data security, which could result in loss of confidence in us and our products, cancellation of contracts with certain of our auto OEM customers and harm our business. There have been reports of vehicles of certain automobile manufacturers being hacked to grant access and operation of the vehicles to unauthorized persons and would-be thieves. Modern vehicles are technologically advanced machines requiring the interoperation of numerous complex and evolving hardware and software systems, including the navigation system, and with respect to vehicles with autonomous driving features, control of the vehicle. We have agreed with some of our auto OEM customers to adopt certain security procedures and we may be subject to claims or our contracts with those OEMs may be terminated if we do not comply with our covenants or if our products are the source of access to the systems in their vehicles by intruders. Although we have designed, implemented and tested security measures to prevent unauthorized access to our products when installed in vehicles, our information technology networks and communications with vehicles in which our products are installed may be vulnerable to interception, manipulation, damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to errors by personnel who have access to our networks and systems. Any such attacks or breaches could result in unexpected control of or changes to the vehicles functionality and our products user interface and performance characteristics. Hackers may also use similar means to gain access to data stored in or generated by the vehicle, such as its current geographical position, previous and stored destination address history and web browser favorites. Any such unauthorized control of vehicles or access to or loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings and negative publicity, which would negatively affect our brand and harm our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security and privacy breaches. Our business involves the collection, storage, processing and transmission of users personal data including information about routes mapped and taken. An increasing number of organizations, including large online and offline merchants and businesses, other large Internet companies, financial institutions, and government institutions, have disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks, including on portions of their websites or infrastructure. We have been subject to such attacks in the past, although they have not, to our knowledge, resulted in the disclosure of user information and we work to evaluate and improve our security. A breach of security or privacy could have negative consequences to our reputation, which could result in users discontinuing or reducing their use of our products and our automotive OEM and advertising customers terminating their agreements with us, and could have significant out-of-pocket financial impact, which could harm our business. Similarly, a breach of security or privacy in vehicles in which our navigation products are installed could result in a reduction in adoption of our navigation products. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized, improper or illegal access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, may be difficult to detect quickly, and often are not recognized until launched against a target. Certain efforts may be state-sponsored and supported by significant financial and technological resources and may therefore be even more difficult to detect. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Unauthorized 26 Table of Contents parties also may attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including hacking into our systems or facilities, fraud, trickery or other means of deceiving our employees, contractors and temporary staff. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our, our customers or our employees personal or proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations and damage our computers and systems or those of our customers. In addition, our customers have been and likely will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent spoof and phishing emails to misappropriate user names, passwords, payment card numbers, GPS data or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware, including through trojan horse programs, to our users' phones and vehicles. Also, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or security incidents, and third parties may be able to access our customers personal or proprietary information and payment card data that are stored on or accessible through our systems. Any security or privacy breach at a company providing services to us or our OEM customers, or integrated with our products and services, could have similar effects. We may also need to expend significant additional resources to protect against security or privacy breaches or to redress problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult and costly as we expand the number of markets where we operate. Additionally, our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches, and we may not be able to collect fully, if at all, under these insurance policies. Changes in government regulation of the wireless communications, the automobile and mobile advertising industries may adversely affect our business. It is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted in the United States and elsewhere that could restrict the wireless communications industry, further regulate the automobile industry or impair the mobile advertising industry, including laws and regulations regarding lawful interception of personal data, hands free use of mobile phones or navigation services within autos, autonomous driving or the control of such use, privacy, taxation, content suitability, copyright and antitrust. Furthermore, the growth and development of electronic storage of personal information may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours that store personal information. We anticipate that regulation of the industries in which our products and services are used will increase and that we will be required to devote legal and other resources to address this regulation. In addition, governments have recently begun to consider and adopt laws regarding vehicles using ADAS systems and those laws may curtail or preclude using the services our products provide. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere regarding the wireless communications or automobile industries may make operation more costly, and may materially reduce our ability to increase or maintain sales of our products and services. Government regulation designed to protect end user privacy may make it difficult for us to provide our services or adopt advertising based revenue models. We transmit and store a large volume of personal information in the course of providing our products and services. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. This government action is typically intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information that is collected, stored and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. Legislation may also be adopted in various jurisdictions that prohibits use of personal information and search histories to target end users with tailored advertising, or provide advertising at all. Although our advertising revenue to date is not significant, we anticipate we will continue to grow advertising revenue in the future to improve average revenue per user in certain markets. We could be adversely affected if domestic or international legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business. For example, the USA PATRIOT Act provides certain rights to U.S. law enforcement authorities to obtain personal information in the control of U.S. persons and entities without notifying the affected individuals. If we are required to allocate significant resources to modify the delivery of our services to enable enhanced legal interception of the personal information that we transmit and store, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, because various foreign jurisdictions have different laws and regulations concerning the storage and transmission of personal information, we may face unknown requirements that pose compliance challenges in new international markets that we seek to enter. Such variation could subject us to costs, delayed service launches, liabilities or negative publicity that could impair our ability to expand our operations into some countries and therefore limit our future growth. As privacy and data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of personal information. These and other privacy concerns could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our competitive position and our business could be harmed. We rely primarily on a combination of patent laws, trademark laws, copyright laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. However, our issued patents and any future patents that may issue may not survive a legal challenge to their scope, validity or enforceability, or provide significant protection for us. The failure of our patents to adequately protect our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products or technologies. In addition, patents may not issue from any of our current or any future applications. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may also independently develop similar technology. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Any failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could result in competitors offering products that incorporate our most technologically advanced features, which could seriously reduce demand for our navigation services. In addition, we may in the future need to initiate infringement claims or litigation. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and managerial personnel, which could harm our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our proprietary technology, including the proprietary software components of our navigation services and related processes. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. We use open source software in our navigation services platform and client applications and may use more open source software in the future. Use of open source software may subject our navigation services platform and client applications to general release or require us to re-engineer our navigation services platform and client applications, which may cause harm to our business. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. If we combine our proprietary software products with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release our proprietary source code. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. Open source license terms may be ambiguous and many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. If we were found to have inappropriately used open source software, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, re-engineer our navigation services platform and client applications, discontinue the sale of our service in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks related to being a publicly traded company and holding our common stock As a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. We may not always complete our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or such internal control may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we test our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure