Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in the sections entitled Risk Factors and this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, accounting for and future sources of revenue, expectations regarding expenses, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities and the effects of competition. Forward-looking statements include statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, seeks, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks in greater detail in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-Q. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. You should read this Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (http://investor.telenav.com), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels to communicate with our members and the public about our company, our products and services and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on our investor relations website could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on our investor relations website. In this Form 10-Q, we, us, our and Telenav refer to Telenav, Inc. and its subsidiaries. We operate on a fiscal year ending June 30 and refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 as fiscal 2018 and the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 as fiscal 2019. Overview Telenav is a leading provider of location-based products and services for connected cars and advertising. We utilize our connected car platform and our advertising platform to deliver these products and services. Our connected car platform allows us to deliver enhanced location-based navigation services to automobile manufacturers and tier one suppliers, or tier ones. Our advertising platform, which we provide through our Thinknear subsidiary, leverages our location expertise and delivers highly targeted advertising services to advertisers and advertising agencies. We report results in three business segments: automotive, advertising and mobile navigation. We adopted ASC 606 effective July 1, 2018, utilizing the full retrospective transition method. All prior period amounts and disclosures set forth in this Form 10-Q have been adjusted to comply with ASC 606. See Note 1 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for a summary of adjustments. We derive revenue primarily from automobile manufacturers and tier ones, advertisers and advertising agencies. We receive revenue from automobile manufacturers and tier ones whose vehicles or systems incorporate our proprietary personalized navigation software and services. These automobile manufacturers and tier ones generally do not provide us with any volume or revenue guarantees. In addition, we have a strategic business in mobile advertising where our customers are primarily advertising agencies, which represent national and regional brands, and channel partners, which work closely with local and small business advertisers. Our legacy mobile navigation business has declined steadily since fiscal 2013, and we expect it to continue to decline. Mobile navigation revenue was $2.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . We began offering our mobile navigation services in 2003. Our mobile navigation business generates revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers who sell our navigation services to their subscribers either as a standalone service or in a bundle with other data or services. The mobile navigation business has declined both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue from $116.4 million, or 61% of our revenue, in fiscal 2013 to $2.8 million , or 5% of our revenue, in the three months ended September 30, 2018 as 24 Table of Contents subscriptions for paid navigation services declined in favor of free or freemium navigation services offered by our competitors with greater resources and name recognition, such as Google and Apple. We have experienced and anticipate that we will continue to experience the non-renewal of our agreements for these services by our wireless carrier customers as demand from their subscribers declines. In the event our mobile navigation business ceases to be profitable we may ultimately elect to terminate our legacy wireless carrier mobile navigation business to the extent allowable under our contractual arrangements. For our automotive manufacturer and tier one customers, we offer our connected car products and services for distribution with their vehicles and systems. We believe our history as a supplier of cloud-based navigation services combined with our proven track record of delivering navigation solutions to three of the top five global automobile manufacturers provides a unique advantage in the automotive navigation marketplace over our competitors. We offer four variations of our connected car products and services to our automobile manufacturer and tier one customers. First, we offer on-board navigation systems that are built into vehicles with all key elements of the system residing in the vehicle as a self-contained application along with the related software and content. Our on-board navigation products do not require access to the Internet or wireless networks to function. Second, we offer advanced navigation solutions that contain on-board functionality and also add cloud functionality such as cloud search, cloud routing, map updates and live data. We refer to these solutions as hybrid navigation. Third, we offer mobile phone-based navigation solutions that run on the phone and provide an interactive map and navigation instructions to the vehicles video screen and audio system , which we refer to as brought-in navigation. Finally, we offer a Navigation Software Development Kit, or SDK, that enables our customers to add mapping and location capabilities to their cloud, mobile and on-board automotive applications. We provide our automotive navigation products and services to automobile manufacturers such as Ford Motor Company and affiliated entities, or Ford, which represented 60% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2018 , General Motors Holdings and its affiliates, or GM, which represented 13% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2018 , and Toyota Motor Corporation, or Toyota. We also provide our products and services indirectly through tier ones such as XEVO Inc., or XEVO, for certain Toyota solutions, LG Electronics, Inc., or LG, for certain Opel Automobile GmbH, or Opel, solutions and Panasonic Automotive Systems Company of America, or Panasonic, for certain Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, or FCA, solutions. We believe our advertising delivery platform offers significant audience reach, sophisticated targeting capabilities and the ability to deliver interactive and engaging ad experiences to consumers on their mobile devices. We also believe that we are experts in location-based advertising and offer differentiated value compared to brick-and-mortar and brand advertisers through our location-based ad targeting capabilities. Our technology focuses on leveraging the complexity and scale associated with mobile location data to deliver better mobile campaigns for our advertising partners. We deliver mobile advertisements by leveraging our proprietary in-house ad serving technology. Our inventory, or accessible market, is comprised of thousands of mobile applications and mobile websites that are accessed through advertising exchanges using programmatic real time bidding, or RTB, tools. We generate product revenue from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications, map updates to the software and customized software development. We generate services revenue from brought-in automotive navigation solutions, advertising services and mobile navigation services. Ford utilizes our on-board automotive navigation product in its Ford SYNC platform. Ford pays us a royalty fee on SYNC 2 on-board solutions as the software is imaged onto an SD card and shipped for installation in vehicles and pays us a royalty fee on SYNC 3 on-board solutions as our software is installed in the vehicle. We also derive product revenue from map update fees. We generate automotive services revenue primarily from our brought-in automotive navigation solutions. We earn a fee for each new vehicle owner who downloads and activates the associated mobile application featuring GMs branded mobile and web-based applications, whereby we provide enhanced search capabilities for contracted service periods. We also earn a fee for each new Toyota and Lexus vehicle sold and enabled to connect with our Scout GPS Link mobile application, similarly provided over a contracted service period. For our hybrid navigation solutions, GM pays us a royalty fee as the SD card is shipped for installation in vehicles; this royalty includes a fee for the initial connected service to be provided once the vehicle is sold. GM will pay us an additional service fee for connected solution subscriptions for each end user that elects to renew their OnStar Connected Navigation or Connected Navigation subscription with GM. 25 Table of Contents We generate revenue from advertising network services through the delivery of advertising impressions based on the specific terms of the advertising contract. We also generate a declining portion of our services revenue from subscriptions to access our mobile navigation services, which are generally provided through our wireless carrier customers that offer our services to their subscribers. Our wireless carrier customers typically pay us based on a revenue sharing arrangement or a monthly subscription fee per end user. This revenue continues to decline, and in fiscal 2018 we recognized a $2.7 million impairment of all of the goodwill associated with our mobile navigation segment. Adoption of ASC 606 The effect of adopting ASC 606 on fiscal 2018 was material to our statements of operations and balance sheets as a result of its impact on the recognition of revenue and associated third-party content costs for certain of our on-board and brought-in automotive navigation solutions. The adoption of ASC 606 had no significant impact on our advertising and mobile navigation business segments. The adoption of ASC 606 resulted in reductions to deferred costs (asset) and deferred revenue (liability) balances, and accelerated the recognition of revenues and deferred costs in the automotive segment. Such impact on our statements of operations will continue going forward. The adjustments required to transition to ASC 606 resulted in $163.1 million of deferred revenue and $89.1 million of deferred costs of the total originally reported on our balance sheet as of June 30, 2018 being recorded instead as revenue and cost of revenue, respectively, in our adjusted prior periods. In addition, the adoption of ASC 606 required us to capitalize an additional $4.2 million, net, of deferred development costs on our adjusted June 30, 2018 balance sheet, resulting in a net decrease in deferred costs of $84.9 million. In total, our accumulated deficit decreased by $78.2 million as of June 30, 2018. All prior period amounts presented have been adjusted to comply with ASC 606. See the summary of adjustments in Note 1 to our condensed consolidated financial statements. With respect to on-board automotive solutions, historically we recognized revenue and associated content costs over the life of our contractual obligations when map updates were included, and we deferred substantially all revenue and associated content costs pending the delivery of future specified upgrades. Instead, as of July 1, 2018, we recognize revenue related to royalties for distinct software and content that has been accepted as transfer of control takes place, with an allocation of the transaction price based on the relative standalone selling price, or SSP, of map updates, specified upgrades, and other services as applicable, which we will recognize with the associated content costs at a point in time or over time as we transfer control of the related performance obligation. Regarding brought-in automotive solutions, historically we recognized revenue for each royalty over the expected remaining term of the service obligation. Effective July 1, 2018, since these contracts contain variable consideration we will estimate the total transaction price each reporting period using a probability assessment, and then recognize revenue ratably over the period the services obligation is expected to be fulfilled. Development costs subject to ASC 340-40 incurred to fulfill future obligations under certain actual or anticipated contracts for automotive solutions are capitalized, provided they are expected to be recovered, and then recognized as control of the related performance obligations is transferred. Historically, such costs were not capitalized until receipt of a signed contract or purchase order for a fixed amount, provided the costs were probable of being recovered. Under ASC 340-40, we are required to capitalize such costs in anticipation of a contract, provided the costs are expected to be recovered; thus, increasing the amount of costs we capitalize under ASC 340-40. For on-board automotive solutions, such capitalized costs represent the customized portion of software development, which will continue to be recognized upon acceptance of the software under ASC 340-40 since acceptance is generally required for control of the software to transfer. For brought-in automotive solutions, such costs will be amortized over the period the services obligation is expected to be fulfilled, since software development does not represent a distinct performance obligation in the case of brought-in automotive solutions. Historically, we recognized such costs for brought-in automotive solutions upon acceptance of the software. Key operating and financial performance metrics We monitor the key operating and financial performance metrics set forth in the tables below to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess our operational efficiencies. Certain of these measures such as billings, direct contribution from billings, direct contribution margin from billings, changes in deferred revenue and deferred costs, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or adjusted EBITDA, adjusted cash flow from operations and free cash flow are not measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to any measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because other companies may not calculate them in the same manner that we do. 26 Table of Contents Our key operating and financial performance metrics are as follows (in thousands, except percentages and per share amounts): Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 As Adjusted (1) Revenue $ 52,168 $ 56,962 Revenue from Ford as a percentage of total revenue 60 % 73 % Revenue from GM as a percentage of total revenue 13 % 4 % Billings (Non-GAAP) $ 59,041 $ 65,788 Billings to Ford as a percentage of total billings (Non-GAAP) 54 % 68 % Billings to GM as a percentage of total billings (Non-GAAP) 17 % 6 % Increase in deferred revenue $ 6,873 $ 8,826 Increase in deferred costs $ 4,039 $ 5,474 Gross profit $ 21,064 $ 21,139 Gross margin 40 % 37 % Direct contribution from billings (Non-GAAP) $ 23,898 $ 24,491 Direct contribution margin from billings (Non-GAAP) 40 % 37 % Net loss $ (7,943 ) $ (10,369 ) Diluted net loss per share $ (0.18 ) $ (0.24 ) Adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP) $ (5,624 ) $ (7,741 ) Adjusted cash flow from operations (Non-GAAP) $ (2,790 ) $ (4,389 ) Net cash used in operating activities $ (2,293 ) $ (3,788 ) Free cash flow (Non-GAAP) $ (2,393 ) $ (6,074 ) (1) Certain amounts have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of ASC 606. See Note 1 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for a summary of adjustments. Gross margin is our gross profit, or total revenue less cost of revenue, expressed as a percentage of our total revenue. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be impacted by the increasing percentage of our revenue base derived from automotive navigation solutions and advertising network services, which generally have higher associated third-party content costs and third-party display ad inventory costs, respectively, than our mobile navigation offerings provided through wireless carriers. Billings measure revenue recognized plus the change in deferred revenue from the beginning to the end of the period. Direct contribution from billings reflects GAAP gross profit plus change in deferred revenue less change in deferred costs. Direct contribution margin from billings reflects direct contribution from billings divided by billings. We have also provided a breakdown of the calculation of the change in deferred revenue by segment, which is added to revenue in calculating our non-GAAP metric of billings. In connection with our presentation of the change in deferred revenue, we have provided a similar presentation of the change in the related deferred costs. Such deferred costs primarily include costs associated with third-party content and certain development costs associated with our customized software solutions. As we enter into more hybrid and brought-in navigation programs, deferred revenue and deferred costs become larger components of our operating results, thus we believe these metrics are useful in evaluating cash flow. We consider billings, direct contribution from billings and direct contribution margin from billings to be useful metrics for management and investors because billings drive revenue and deferred revenue, which is an important indicator of the viability of our business. We believe direct contribution from billings and direct contribution margin from billings are useful metrics because they reflect the impact of the contribution over time from such billings, exclusive of the incremental costs incurred to deliver any related service obligations. There are a number of limitations related to the use of billings, direct contribution from billings and direct contribution margin from billings versus revenue, gross profit and gross margin calculated in accordance with GAAP. First, billings, direct contribution from billings and direct contribution margin from billings include amounts that have not yet been recognized as revenue or cost and may require additional services to be provided over contracted service periods. For example, billings related to certain brought-in solutions cannot be fully recognized as revenue in a given period due to requirements for ongoing provisioning of services such as hosting, monitoring, customer support and map updates, including 27 Table of Contents certain third-party technology and content license fees as applicable. Second, we may calculate billings, direct contribution from billings and direct contribution margin from billings in a manner that is different from peer companies that report similar financial measures, making comparisons between companies more difficult. When we use these measures, we attempt to compensate for these limitations by providing specific information regarding billings and how they relate to revenue, gross profit and gross margin calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA measures our GAAP net loss excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, other income (expense), provision (benefit) for income taxes, and other applicable items such as goodwill impairment, legal settlements and contingencies, and deferred rent reversal and tenant improvement allowance recognition due to sublease termination, net of tax. Stock-based compensation expense relates to equity incentive awards granted to our employees, directors, and consultants. Goodwill impairment represents the impairment of all of the goodwill associated with our mobile navigation segment. Legal settlements and contingencies represent settlements and offers made to settle patent litigation cases in which we are a defendant and royalty disputes. Deferred rent reversal and tenant improvement allowance recognition represent the reversal of our deferred rent liability and recognition of our deferred tenant improvement allowance, as amortization of these amounts is no longer required due to the termination of our Santa Clara facility sublease and subsequent entry into a new lease agreement with our landlord for this same facility in August 2017. Adjusted EBITDA, while generally a measure of profitability, can also represent a loss. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted cash flow from operations are key measures used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operational plans. In particular, we believe that the exclusion of the expenses eliminated in calculating adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. Adjusted cash flow from operations measures adjusted EBITDA plus the effect of changes in deferred revenue and deferred costs. We believe adjusted cash flow from operations is a useful measure, especially in light of the significant impact we expect on reported GAAP revenue from certain value-added offerings we provide our customers, including Ford map updates. In addition, adjusted cash flow from operations is a key financial measure used by the compensation committee of our board of directors in connection with the development of incentive-based compensation for our executive officers and other employees. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA and adjusted cash flow from operations generally provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted cash flow from operations, while generally measures of profitability, can also represent losses. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure we define as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash (used in) generated by our business after the purchases of property and equipment. These non-GAAP measures have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: We expect to incur additional costs in the future due to requirements to provide ongoing provisioning of services such as hosting, monitoring and customer support; accordingly, direct contribution from billings, direct contribution margin from billings and adjusted cash flow from operations do not reflect all costs associated with billings; assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditures; adjusted EBITDA and adjusted cash flow from operations do not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA and adjusted cash flow from operations do not reflect the use of cash for net share settlements of RSUs; adjusted EBITDA and adjusted cash flow from operations do not reflect tax payments that historically have represented a reduction in cash available to us or tax benefits that may arise as a result of generating net losses; and adjusted EBITDA, adjusted cash flow from operations, free cash flow or similarly titled measures may be calculated by other companies differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. 28 Table of Contents Because of these and other limitations, you should consider billings, direct contribution from billings, direct contribution margin from billings, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted cash flow from operations and free cash flow alongside other GAAP-based financial performance measures. We reconcile the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to each non-GAAP financial metric used. The following tables present reconciliations of revenue to billings, deferred revenue to the change in deferred revenue, deferred costs to the change in deferred costs, gross profit to direct contribution from billings, net loss to adjusted EBITDA and adjusted cash flow from operations, and net loss and net cash flow used in operating activities to free cash flow for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Reconciliation of Revenue to Billings Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 Automotive Revenue $ 43,451 $ 45,608 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue 6,860 8,883 Billings $ 50,311 $ 54,491 Advertising Revenue $ 5,947 $ 7,615 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue Billings $ 5,947 $ 7,615 Mobile Navigation Revenue $ 2,770 $ 3,739 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue 13 (57 ) Billings $ 2,783 $ 3,682 Total Revenue $ 52,168 $ 56,962 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue 6,873 8,826 Billings $ 59,041 $ 65,788 29 Table of Contents Reconciliation of Deferred Revenue to Change in Deferred Revenue Reconciliation of Deferred Costs to Change in Deferred Costs Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Automotive Advertising Mobile Navigation Total Deferred revenue, September 30 $ 78,373 $ $ 550 $ 78,923 Deferred revenue, June 30 71,513 537 72,050 Change in deferred revenue $ 6,860 $ $ 13 $ 6,873 Deferred costs, September 30 $ 60,308 $ $ $ 60,308 Deferred costs, June 30 56,269 56,269 Change in deferred costs $ 4,039 $ $ $ 4,039 Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 Automotive Advertising Mobile Navigation Total Deferred revenue, September 30 $ 46,407 $ $ 827 $ 47,234 Deferred revenue, June 30 37,524 884 38,408 Change in deferred revenue $ 8,883 $ $ (57 ) $ 8,826 Deferred costs, September 30 $ 40,227 $ $ $ 40,227 Deferred costs, June 30 34,753 34,753 Change in deferred costs $ 5,474 $ $ $ 5,474 Reconciliation of Revenue to Billings - Ford and GM Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 Revenue from Ford $ 31,100 $ 41,319 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue attributed to Ford 674 3,700 Billings to Ford $ 31,774 $ 45,019 Billings to Ford as a percentage of total billings 54 % 68 % Revenue from GM $ 6,799 $ 2,433 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue attributed to GM 3,189 1,373 Billings to GM $ 9,988 $ 3,806 Billings to GM as a percentage of total billings 17 % 6 % 30 Table of Contents Reconciliation of Gross Profit to Direct Contribution from Billings Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 Gross profit $ 21,064 $ 21,139 Gross margin 40 % 37 % Adjustments to gross profit: Change in deferred revenue $ 6,873 $ 8,826 Change in deferred costs (1) (4,039 ) (5,474 ) Net change 2,834 3,352 Direct contribution from billings (1) $ 23,898 $ 24,491 Direct contribution margin from billings (1) 40 % 37 % (1) Deferred costs primarily include costs associated with third-party content and in connection with certain customized software solutions, the costs incurred to develop those solutions. We expect to incur additional costs in the future due to requirements to provide ongoing map updates and provisioning of services such as hosting, monitoring, customer support and, for certain customers, additional period content and associated technology costs. Accordingly, direct contribution from billings and direct contribution margin from billings do not include all costs associated with billings. Reconciliation of Net Loss to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Cash Flow from Operations Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 Net loss $ (7,943 ) $ (10,369 ) Adjustments: Legal settlement and contingencies 250 Deferred rent reversal due to lease termination (538 ) Tenant improvement allowance recognition due to lease termination (582 ) Stock-based compensation expense 2,269 2,480 Depreciation and amortization 1,010 716 Other income (expense), net (1,590 ) 47 Provision for income taxes 630 255 Adjusted EBITDA $ (5,624 ) $ (7,741 ) Change in deferred revenue 6,873 8,826 Change in deferred costs (1) (4,039 ) (5,474 ) Adjusted cash flow from operations (1) $ (2,790 ) $ (4,389 ) (1) We expect to incur additional costs in the future due to requirements to provide ongoing map updates and provisioning of services such as hosting, monitoring, customer support and, for certain customers, additional period content and associated technology costs. Accordingly, adjusted cash flow from operations does not reflect all costs associated with billings. 31 Table of Contents Reconciliation of Net Loss to Free Cash Flow Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 Net loss $ (7,943 ) $ (10,369 ) Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash used in operating activities: Change in deferred revenue (1) 6,873 8,826 Change in deferred costs (2) (4,039 ) (5,474 ) Changes in other operating assets and liabilities 791 1,048 Other adjustments (3) 2,025 2,181 Net cash used in operating activities (2,293 ) (3,788 ) Less: Purchases of property and equipment (100 ) (2,286 ) Free cash flow $ (2,393 ) $ (6,074 ) (1) Consists of product royalties, customized software development fees, service fees and subscription fees. (2) Consists primarily of third-party content costs and customized software development expenses. (3) Consist primarily of depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and other non-cash items. 32 Table of Contents Key components of our results of operations Sources of revenue Overview . We classify our revenue as either product or services revenue. Product revenue consists primarily of revenue we receive from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications, map updates to the software and customized software development. Services revenue consists primarily of revenue we derive from our brought-in automotive navigation services, advertising services and mobile navigation services. We report revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit results in three business segments: automotive, advertising and mobile navigation. Our chief executive officer, or CEO, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments. See - Results of operations and Note 11 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q for more information about our business segments. Revenue from our automotive segment represented 83% and 80% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. In the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , revenue from Ford represented 60% and 73% of our total revenue, respectively, and revenue from GM comprised 13% and less than 10% of our total revenue, respectively. Our contract with Ford covers a broad range of products and services that we provide to Ford. On December 15, 2017, we entered into an amendment with Ford that extends the term of the agreement from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018 for each jurisdiction in which we currently provide our products to Ford. On December 14, 2017, Ford awarded to us a further extension of the agreement to December 31, 2020 for each jurisdiction in which we currently provide our products to Ford, subject to certain conditions and execution of a subsequent amendment to the agreement. The subsequent amendment was executed in March 2018. On December 14, 2017, Ford also selected us to provide its next generation navigation solution in North America, subject to certain conditions and execution of an agreement regarding those solutions. Although we have been awarded these programs, in the course of negotiating definitive agreements for the programs, the terms and conditions of the programs, including the pricing, the length of the programs and geographic scope of the programs, may change. We were not awarded the contracts for Europe, South America and Australia and New Zealand. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our revenue, and, to a lesser extent, gross profit is impacted by the underlying licensed content cost negotiated through HERE and other content providers and we cannot predict the impact on our revenue and gross profit of any changes between Ford and the map or other content providers. Our contract with GM includes the provision of our on-board, hybrid, and brought-in navigation solutions across a wide assortment of GM vehicles. Our mobile navigation SDK powers GMs branded mobile and web-based applications and is covered under a services agreement that was entered into June 13, 2014 and extends to December 31, 2019. Our on-board and hybrid navigation solutions for GM are covered under a product and services agreement that became effective February 1, 2017. These solutions began shipping in a limited number of vehicles beginning with model year 2017 and are gradually expanding across additional regions and models. In May 2017, additional vehicles through model year 2025 were added to this products and services agreement, which terminates on December 31, 2026. Product revenue . Our automotive product revenue is generated primarily from on-board and hybrid automotive navigation solutions provided to Ford and GM. Our on-board solutions consist of software, memory card, map and point of interest, or POI, data loaded in the vehicle that provides voice-guided turn by turn navigation displayed on the vehicle screen. Our hybrid navigation solutions contain on-board software functionality and also add cloud functionality such as cloud search, cloud routing, map updates and live data. Royalties for on-board navigation solutions are generally earned at various points in time, depending upon the individual customer agreement. We earn each royalty upon either the re-imaging of the software on each individual memory card or the time at which each vehicle is produced. We recognize revenue from on-board automotive navigation solutions upon transfer of control of the customized software and any associated integrated content together forming a distinct performance obligation. Transfer of control generally occurs at a point in time upon acceptance. Any royalties for the use of distinct software combined with integrated content, with an allocation of the transaction price based on the relative SSP of map updates, specified upgrades, and other services as applicable, are recognized at the later of when the royalties are earned or when transfer of control of the related performance obligation has occurred. 33 Table of Contents For hybrid automotive solutions, the transaction price allocated to the on-board component is generally recognized as product revenue as described above, and the transaction price allocated to the included cloud functionality based on SSP is generally recognized as services revenue. Since the on-board software is still the predominant item in the hybrid solution, the royalties recognition guidance applies as it does for on-board navigation solutions described above. Our brought-in automotive navigation solutions as described below are subject to variable consideration and constraint guidance. Our product revenue from Ford is primarily derived from Fords SYNC 2 and SYNC 3 on-board solutions. In each geography where we provide navigation products to it, Ford also provides a map update program under which Ford owners in North America, South America, China and Europe with SYNC 3 and in Australia and New Zealand with SYNC 2 or SYNC 3 are eligible to receive annual map updates at no additional cost through the applicable contractual period. We earn an annual compilation fee and a per unit fee for these updates included in the pricing arrangement. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on Ford for a material portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future . We also have agreements with GM. In February 2017, GM launched its first model featuring integration of our hybrid navigation solution in North America, the 2017 Cadillac CTS and CTS-V. Our solution is now available in North America on select 2019 models of Cadillac CTS, CTS-V, ATS, XTS and XT 4; GMC Terrain, Sierra and Canyon; Chevrolet Silverado, Equinox, Colorado, Camaro, Cruze Hatchback and Volt; and Buick Regal. GM also has launched vehicles with our hybrid navigation solution in China and has launched vehicles with our on-board solution in South America, Australia and New Zealand, and the Middle East. Our on-board and connected navigation solution is scheduled to become available in additional regions and GM models for model years 2020 through 2025. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on GM for a material portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future . We were selected to provide entry level on-board navigation through LG, a tier one supplier for the Opel and Vauxhall line of vehicles, for the European market. This solution launched in Adam, Corsa, Karl and Zafira model vehicles equipped with NAVI 4.0 IntelliLink beginning in July 2017. These products are expected to be made available in other select vehicles for model years 2020 to 2022. GM sold its Opel and Vauxhall business to Groupe PSA in August 2017, and we continue to engage in development of similar solutions for Opel and Vauxhall. We also have an agreement to offer our on-board navigation solution in select Jeep and Chrysler vehicles in the China market through Panasonic. Our on-board navigation is included in the 2018 Jeep Grand Cherokee, which had its China launch in August 2017, and is expected to be included in Jeep Cherokee and Compass when those models debut in China by December 31, 2018. Services revenue . We derive services revenue primarily from our brought-in automotive navigation solutions. Royalties for brought-in navigation solutions are earned upon vehicle sales reporting or upon initial usage by the end user. Since these contracts typically contain a substantial amount of variable consideration that is required to be estimated and included in the transaction price, we include in the transaction price only variable consideration such that it is probable that a risk of significant revenue reversal will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. Total variable consideration to be received is estimated at contract inception and updated at each reporting date. We utilize the expected value method and consider expected unit volume combined with a risk-based probability based on factors including, but not limited to: model year cycles, customer history, technology life cycles, nature of competition and other contract-specific factors. Because customers of our brought-in automotive navigation solutions simultaneously receive and consume the benefit from our performance, we recognize revenue ratably over the period the services obligation is expected to be fulfilled, generally 8 to 12 years, as this provides a faithful depiction of the transfer of control. In October 2017, we amended our agreement with Ford to provide certain connected services for SYNC 3 in North America, Europe and China. Ford launched connected search across various model year 2018 SYNC 3 vehicles in North America using its FordPass TM and Lincoln Way TM mobile applications. As of September 30, 2018 , the vast majority of Ford vehicles with SYNC 3 produced in North America and Europe during the three months ended September 30, 2018 were capable of providing connected services. GM offers its OnStar RemoteLink feature including our location-based services platform, and we earn a one-time fee for each new vehicle owner who downloads the associated MyBrand mobile application, including a localized version offered in Europe for the Opel and Vauxhall brands. We have a partnership with Toyota for brought-in navigation services where our Scout GPS Link mobile application is available in select Entune Audio equipped Toyota vehicles in the United States and in select Lexus Enform equipped Lexus models. Toyota and Lexus vehicles enabled to connect with our Scout GPS Link began shipping in August 2015 and September 2016, respectively. We earn a one-time fee for each new Toyota or Lexus sold and enabled to connect to our Scout GPS Link mobile application. 34 Table of Contents Our Scout GPS Link and Xevos Xevo TM Engine Link provide brought-in navigation services, including a fully interactive moving map, for select Toyota vehicles equipped with Entune 3.0 Audio, as well as select Lexus vehicles equipped with Lexus Enform. Our fully interactive solution first became available on select model year 2018 Toyota Camry and Sienna and Lexus NX and RC models, and was recently expanded to select model year 2019 Toyota Corolla hatchback, Avalon and CHR models. On these same Toyota and Lexus models, a premium embedded connected navigation option is also available that provides connected search, powered by our platform. Toyota and Lexus offer our solutions, including the new fully interactive solution, in model year 2018 and 2019 vehicles, with the availability of each solution dependent upon the Toyota and Lexus model and trim level. While we have seen expansion of our latest version of Scout GPS Link solution across more Toyota and Lexus models in fiscal 2019, we expect that Toyota may limit the number of future models or vehicles on which Scout GPS Link is offered by Toyota and Lexus due in part to the offering of alternative brought-in solutions such as Apples CarPlay, which Toyota recently announced it is offering across certain Toyota models, and the expanded offering of Googles Android Auto solution across more automobile manufacturers. Revenue from our advertising segment, which includes the delivery of display, location-based advertising impressions, represented 11% and 13% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Our advertising revenue is derived primarily from ad insertion orders contracted with advertising agencies, direct customers, and channel partners. We recognize revenue when transfer of control of the related advertising services occur based on the specific terms of each advertising contract, which are generally based on the number of ad impressions delivered. Revenue from our mobile navigation segment represented 5% and 7% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. We offer voice-guided, real-time, turn by turn, mobile navigation service under several brand names including Telenav GPS as well as under wireless carrier brands (or white label brands). Subscription fee revenue from our mobile navigation service has declined steadily, primarily due to a substantial decrease in the number of paying subscribers for navigation services provided through AT&T and other wireless carriers. We expect that mobile navigation revenue will continue to decline. We have experienced and anticipate that we will continue to experience the non-renewal of our agreements for these services by our wireless carrier customers as demand from their subscribers declines. We derive mobile navigation services revenue primarily from our wireless carrier customers for their end users subscriptions to our mobile navigation services. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on a revenue sharing arrangement or a monthly subscription fee per end user, and they are responsible for billing and collecting the fees they charge their subscribers for the right to use our navigation services. We recognize monthly fees related to our mobile navigation services in the month we provide the services. We defer amounts received or billed in advance of the service being provided and recognize the deferred amounts when the obligation has been fulfilled. In fiscal 2019, we expect automotive to represent the strategic growth segment of our business, but our expectations may not be realized. We expect that services revenue from wireless carrier customers, which has a higher gross margin than automotive and advertising revenue, will continue to decline substantially in fiscal 2019 due to the continued decline in the number of monthly recurring subscribers. Revenue concentrations. We generated 85% and 94% of our revenue in the United States in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. With respect to revenue we receive from automobile manufacturers and tier ones for sales of vehicles in other countries, we classify the majority of that revenue as being generated in the United States, because we provide deliverables to and receive compensation from the manufacturers or tier ones United States entity. It is possible that this classification may change in the future, as existing and new customers may elect to contract through subsidiaries. For example, in fiscal 2017, Ford assigned certain contract rights for its production of vehicles with our SYNC 3 products to its joint venture in China. Cost of revenue We classify our cost of revenue as either cost of product revenue or cost of services revenue. Cost of product revenue consists primarily of the cost of third-party content we incur in providing our on-board automotive navigation solutions, memory cards and recognition of deferred software development costs. Cost of services revenue consists primarily of the costs associated with third-party content we incur in providing our brought-in automotive navigation solutions, third-party ad inventory, data center operations and outsourced hosting services, software maintenance, customer support, the amortization of capitalized software, recognition of deferred customized software development costs, stock-based compensation and amortization of acquired developed technology. We capitalize and defer recognition of certain third-party royalty-based content costs associated with the fulfillment of future automotive product and services obligations, and we recognize these deferred content costs as cost of revenue as we transfer control of the related performance obligation. As the deferred revenue and related deferred costs are recognized as we 35 Table of Contents transfer control of the related performance obligation, we will also incur ongoing costs of revenue for network operations, hosting and data center, customer service support, and other related costs over time. We also capitalize and defer recognition of certain costs, primarily payroll and related compensation and benefits expense, of customized software we develop for customers. We begin deferring development costs when they relate directly to a contract or specific anticipated contract and such costs are incurred to satisfy performance obligations in the future, provided they are expected to be recovered. We recognize these deferred software development costs as cost of revenue upon transfer of control of the associated performance obligation. We primarily provide navigation service customer support through a third-party provider to whom we provide training and assistance with problem resolution. In addition, we use outsourced, hosting services and industry standard hardware to provide our navigation services. We generally maintain at least 99.9% uptime every month, excluding designated periods of maintenance. Our internal targets for service uptime are even higher. We have in the past, and may in the future, not achieve our targets for service availability, which could result in penalties for failure to meet contractual service availability requirements or termination of our customer agreement. The largest component of cost of revenue as it relates to our advertising business is the cost of location-based, third-party advertising inventory which we acquire from advertising exchanges. Other notable costs of our advertising business are the cost of technologies that we license to deliver customized solutions, costs of ad delivery via contracted hosted relationships and the cost of our advertising operations. While we expect that our services revenue from wireless carrier customers will continue to decline substantially in fiscal 2019 and beyond, we do not expect to be able to reduce our cost of services revenue at the same rate, if at all, as the decline in services revenue. Although we successfully transitioned to utilizing OpenStreetMap, or OSM, content for the majority of our mobile user base resulting in notable cost savings, we expect to continue to incur significant costs, especially related to third-party content as well as for outsourced hosting services. Cost of services revenue related to our advertising business will be impacted by our ability to grow advertising revenue, as well as the cost and availability of display ad inventory sourced from third-party exchanges. Operating expenses We generally classify our operating expenses into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, which include salaries, bonuses, advertising sales commissions, payroll taxes, employee benefit costs and stock-based compensation expense. Other expenses include marketing program costs, third-party contractor and temporary staffing services, facilities-related costs including rent expense, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional service fees. We allocate stock-based compensation expense resulting from the amortization of the fair value of stock-based awards granted, based on the department in which the award holder works. We allocate overhead, such as rent and depreciation, to each expense category based on headcount. In addition, when we incur legal settlements or make offers to settle contingencies, we classify such operating expense amounts separately as legal settlement and contingencies. We anticipate continued investment of resources, including the hiring of additional headcount, or reallocation of employee personnel to automotive and advertising. We may also be required to pay judgments, indemnification claims or other amounts, which we are unable to predict or estimate at this time. Research and development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our development and product management employees and related costs of outside consultants and temporary staffing. We have focused our research and development efforts on improving the ease of use and functionality of our existing products and services as well as developing new products and services. In addition to our U.S. employee base, a significant number of our research and development employees are located in our development centers in China and Romania; as a result, a portion of our research and development expense is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates, notably the Chinese Renminbi, or RMB, the Romanian Leu, or RON, and the Euro. Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our sales and marketing staff, commissions earned by our sales personnel and the cost of marketing programs, advertising and promotional activities. Historically, a majority of our revenue has been derived from wireless carriers, which bore much of the expense of marketing and promoting our services to their subscribers, as well as consumers acquired through open market application stores. More recently, automotive revenue has comprised the largest portion of our revenue and automotive and advertising revenue have represented the growing components of our revenue. Our sales and marketing activities supporting our automotive navigation solutions include the costs of our business development efforts. Our automobile manufacturer partners and tier ones also provide primary marketing for our on-board and brought-in navigation services. 36 Table of Contents General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional services and corporate expenses. Other income (expense), net . Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest we earn on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, gain or loss on investments, unrealized gains or losses on non-marketable equity investments and foreign currency gains or losses. Provision for income taxes . Our provision for income taxes primarily consists of corporate income taxes related to profits earned in foreign jurisdictions, foreign withholding taxes, and changes to our tax reserves. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly in those periods in which we incur losses, due to our ability to benefit from the carryback of net operating losses within the carryback period and the available amount therein, if any. Furthermore, on a quarterly basis our tax rates can fluctuate due to changes in our tax reserves resulting from the settlement of tax audits or the expiration of the statute of limitations. Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to a change in our earnings or loss projections, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as the expiration and retroactive reinstatement of tax holidays. Critical accounting policies and estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require our judgment in its application. In other cases, our judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting policies that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. In many instances, we could reasonably use different accounting estimates, and in some instances changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2018, except as described in Note 1 to our condensed consolidated financial statements, Summary of business and significant accounting policies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to our condensed consolidated financial statements, Summary of business and significant accounting policies. 37 Table of Contents Results of operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , as well as a percentage that each line item represents of our total revenue for those periods. The additional key metrics presented are used in addition to the financial measures reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of operations data to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. The period to period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of financial results to be achieved in future periods. Three Months Ended September 30, Consolidated Statements of Operations Data 2018 2017 As Adjusted (1) (in thousands) Revenue: Product $ 40,471 $ 42,659 Services 11,697 14,303 Total revenue 52,168 56,962 Cost of revenue: Product 23,930 29,441 Services 7,174 6,382 Total cost of revenue 31,104 35,823 Gross profit 21,064 21,139 Operating expenses: Research and development 20,102 20,681 Sales and marketing 4,415 5,064 General and administrative 5,450 5,211 Legal settlement and contingencies 250 Total operating expenses 29,967 31,206 Loss from operations (8,903 ) (10,067 ) Other income (expense), net 1,590 (47 ) Loss before provision for income taxes (7,313 ) (10,114 ) Provision for income taxes 630 255 Net loss $ (7,943 ) $ (10,369 ) (as a percentage of revenue) Revenue: Product 78 % 75 % Services 22 % 25 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue: Product 46 % 52 % Services 14 % 11 % Total cost of revenue 60 % 63 % Gross profit 40 % 37 % Operating expenses: Research and development 39 % 37 % Sales and marketing 8 % 9 % General and administrative 10 % 9 % Legal settlement and contingencies % % Total operating expenses 57 % 55 % Loss from operations (17 )% (18 )% Other income (expense), net 3 % % Loss before provision for income taxes (14 )% (18 )% Provision for income taxes 1 % % Net loss (15 )% (18 )% 38 Table of Contents Comparison of the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 Revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit . Consolidated overview. Product revenue decreased 5% to $40.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $42.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in product revenue for the comparable three month period was due primarily to a decrease in royalty revenue resulting from a reduction in certain on-board navigation content costs that are passed through to Ford, partially offset by an increase in map update revenue. Services revenue decreased 18% to $11.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $14.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in services revenue for the comparable three month period was due primarily to lower advertising revenue and mobile navigation subscription fees. Our cost of product revenue decreased 19% to $23.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $29.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to a net decrease in third-party content costs. Our cost of services revenue increased 12% to $7.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $6.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to an increase in cost of automotive revenue associated with the increased revenue from brought-in solutions, partially offset by decreases in cost of mobile navigation revenue and cost of advertising revenue associated with decreased mobile navigation and advertising revenue. Our gross profit was comparable at $21.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 . Our gross margin increased to 40% in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from 37% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The increase in gross margin for the comparable three month period was due primarily to a reduction in certain on-board navigation content costs that are passed through to Ford. Revenue concentrations . In the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , revenue from Ford represented 60% and 73% of our total revenue, respectively, and revenue from GM comprised 13% and less than 10% of our total revenue, respectively. We primarily sell our services in the United States. In the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , revenue derived from U.S. sources represented 85% and 94% of our total revenue, respectively. 39 Table of Contents Segments information. The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable business segments: Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 As Adjusted (1) (in thousands, except percentages) Automotive Revenue $ 43,451 $ 45,608 Cost of revenue 26,959 30,861 Gross profit $ 16,492 $ 14,747 Gross margin 38 % 32 % Advertising Revenue $ 5,947 $ 7,615 Cost of revenue 3,220 3,412 Gross profit $ 2,727 $ 4,203 Gross margin 46 % 55 % Mobile Navigation Revenue $ 2,770 $ 3,739 Cost of revenue 925 1,550 Gross profit $ 1,845 $ 2,189 Gross margin 67 % 59 % Total Revenue $ 52,168 $ 56,962 Cost of revenue 31,104 35,823 Gross profit $ 21,064 $ 21,139 Gross margin 40 % 37 % (1) Certain amounts have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of ASC 606. See Note 1 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for a summary of adjustments. Automotive. Automotive revenue decreased 5% to $43.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $45.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to a decline in royalty revenue of $2.6 million partially offset by an increase in map update revenue of $0.6 million. The decrease in on-board royalty revenue was due primarily to a reduction in certain on-board navigation content costs that are passed through to Ford, despite an increase in navigation unit volume across our automotive customer base. Automotive revenue included customized software development and map update revenue of $1.0 million and $1.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Automotive revenue represented 83% and 80% in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Cost of automotive revenue decreased 13% to $27.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $30.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to a net decrease in third-party content costs of $3.5 million due primarily to a reduction in certain on-board navigation content costs that are passed through to Ford, partially offset by an increase in content costs associated with increased map update revenue, as well as a decrease of $1.5 million in deferred development costs recognized. These decreases were partially offset by a $0.2 million increase in hosted services costs and a $0.7 million increase in costs related to software maintenance services performed by engineering personnel. In prior periods, such maintenance costs were allocated entirely to research and development expense. Automotive gross profit increased 12% to $16.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $14.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . Automotive gross margin increased to 38% in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from 32% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The increase in gross margin for the comparable three month period was due primarily to the aforementioned reduction in certain on-board navigation content costs that are 40 Table of Contents passed through to Ford, partially offset by a decrease in gross margin resulting from increased map update revenue, which carries a higher relative cost and lower gross margin. Advertising . Advertising revenue decreased 22% to $5.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $7.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to a decrease in the value of contracted insertion orders along with the number of impressions delivered. Advertising revenue represented 11% and 13% of total revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Cost of advertising revenue decreased 6% to $3.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $3.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to decreased third-party ad exchange inventory costs of $0.2 million, and costs decreased at a lower rate than revenue due to higher relative costs as measured on an effective cost per thousand impressions, or eCPM, basis. Advertising gross profit decreased 35% to $2.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $4.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . Advertising gross margin decreased to 46% in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from 55% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in gross margin in the comparable three month period was due primarily to the decreased value of contracted insertion orders, combined with a higher ad inventory eCPM and the effect of certain fixed costs spread over a lower revenue base. Mobile Navigation . Mobile navigation revenue decreased 26% to $2.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $3.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to lower subscription revenue resulting from decreases in the number of paying subscribers for mobile navigation services provided through AT&T, and a decrease in mobile navigation revenue internationally. Mobile navigation revenue represented 5% and 7% of total revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Cost of mobile navigation revenue decreased 40% to $0.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $1.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to decreases in third-party content costs of $0.3 million, hosted services costs of $0.2 million and payroll and related compensation and benefits expense of $0.1 million associated with the decline in mobile navigation revenue. Mobile navigation gross profit decreased 16% to $1.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $2.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . Mobile navigation gross margin increased to 67% in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from 59% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The increase in gross margin resulted primarily from decreased hosted services costs and headcount required to support the declining business. Operating expenses Our total operating expenses decreased 4% to $30.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $31.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to cost optimization, including lower compensation costs resulting from a redesigned employee incentive compensation plan that more closely aligns compensation payouts with financial results, partially offset by higher base compensation driven by merit-based salary increases on generally flat headcount. In addition, costs decreased as a result of the allocation to cost of services revenue of certain software maintenance costs previously allocated to research and development expense, as discussed above in Automotive results of operations. Research and development . Our research and development expenses decreased 3% to $20.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $20.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to decreases in payroll and related compensation and benefits expense of $0.9 million, software maintenance costs of $0.7 million allocated to cost of services revenue as discussed above, outside consulting services of $0.6 million, and travel and entertainment expense of $0.4 million. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $1.5 million as a result of lower capitalized deferred development costs in the three months ended September 30, 2018 , and an increase of $0.6 million in rent and depreciation expense, due to a one-time reversal of deferred rent and recognition of a tenant improvement allowance realized in the three months ended September 30, 2018 in connection with the termination of our Santa Clara facility sublease. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses increased to 39% in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from 37% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 as a result of a lower revenue base. The total number of research and development personnel decreased 1% to 641 at September 30, 2018 from 645 at September 30, 2017 . We believe that as we deliver our contracted customer requirements for our automotive customers, establish relationships with new automobile manufacturers and tier ones, enhance our service offerings around our OSM capabilities, and develop new products and services for advertisers, revenue from those research and development efforts will lag the related expenses. 41 Table of Contents Sales and marketing . Our sales and marketing expenses decreased 13% to $4.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $5.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to decreases in payroll and related compensation and benefits expense of $0.5 million, stock-based compensation expense of $0.1 million and outside services costs of $0.1 million. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses decreased to 8% in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from 9% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The total number of sales and marketing personnel decreased 10% to 55 at September 30, 2018 from 61 at September 30, 2017 . General and administrative . Our general and administrative expenses increased 5% to $5.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $5.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to an increase in outside services of $0.2 million. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses increased to 10% in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from 9% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The total number of general and administrative personnel increased 3% to 60 at September 30, 2018 from 58 at September 30, 2017 . Legal settlement and contingencies. We incurred $250,000 in legal settlement and contingencies expense for the three months ended September 30, 2017 related primarily to the settlement of the Location Based Services LLC patent matter. Other income (expense), net . Our other income (expense), net increased to $1.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to $47,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to an unrealized gain of $1.3 million recorded on non-marketable equity investments resulting from a change in accounting for such investments due to our adoption of ASU 2016-01 effective July 1, 2018. Provision for income taxes . Our provision for income taxes was $0.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to $0.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . Our provision for income taxes of $0.6 million and $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively, was comprised primarily of foreign withholding taxes and income taxes in foreign jurisdictions where we have profit. Our effective tax rate of 9% and 3% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively, was less than the tax amount computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to losses for which no benefit will be recognized since they are not more likely than not to be realized due to the lack of current and future income and the inability to carry back losses within the two-year carryback period, when applicable. We anticipate that our foreign tax withholding obligations will continue into the future and that we will not be able to benefit from an offsetting deduction in the United States for an extended period of time given our existing net operating loss carryforwards. We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in accordance with authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. As of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018 , our cumulative unrecognized tax benefits were $4.7 million and $3.8 million , respectively. Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018 was $0.2 million and $0.1 million that if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our provision for income taxes. We accrued $0.1 million and $0.1 million for the payment of interest and penalties at September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018 . We file income tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, California, various states and foreign tax jurisdictions in which we have filing obligations. The statute of limitations remains open from fiscal 2016 for federal tax purposes, from fiscal 2014 in state jurisdictions, and from fiscal 2013 in foreign jurisdictions. Fiscal years outside the normal statute of limitations remain open to audit by tax authorities due to tax attributes generated in those early years which have been carried forward and may be audited in subsequent years when utilized. Due to operating losses in previous years and continued earnings volatility, we maintain a valuation allowance on the majority of our foreign deferred tax assets. Our valuation allowance at June 30, 2018 was $58.3 million . In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets each quarter, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including current and previous operating results, ability to carryback losses for a tax refund, and forecasts of future operating results. 42 Table of Contents Liquidity and capital resources The following table sets forth the major sources and uses of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash for each of the periods set forth below (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 Net cash used in operating activities $ (2,293 ) $ (3,788 ) Net cash provided by investing activities 141 1,056 Net cash used in financing activities (1,182 ) (905 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (239 ) 345 Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (3,573 ) $ (3,292 ) At September 30, 2018 , we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $81.3 million , which primarily consisted of corporate bonds, asset-backed securities, U.S. treasury securities, commercial paper and municipal securities held. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held and managed by financial institutions that are required to adhere to our investment policy. Our accounts receivable are heavily concentrated in a small number of customers. As of September 30, 2018 , our accounts receivable balance was $47.0 million , of which Ford and GM represented 50% and 16% , respectively. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to continue to increase our billings and control our expenses in fiscal 2019 and beyond, whether and when we return to profitability, the timing and extent of expenditures to support development efforts, the extent of our research and development and sales and marketing activities and the size of our related headcount, the introduction of our new and enhanced service and product offerings and the timing and scale of the introduction of vehicles including our navigation products relative to when we are required to develop the product. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to satisfy our financial obligations through at least the next 12 months. However, we expect to continue to use cash in operating activities in the remainder of fiscal 2019 and we may experience greater than expected cash usage in operating activities if revenue or collections are lower than we anticipate or we incur greater than expected cost of revenue or operating expenses. Our revenue and operating results could be lower than we anticipate if, among other reasons, our customers, two of which we are substantially dependent upon for a large portion of our revenue, were to limit or terminate our relationships with them, we were to fail to successfully compete in our highly competitive market, our revenue did not grow as expected or we were unable to reduce our costs by using OSM. In the future, we may acquire businesses or technologies or license technologies from third parties, and we may decide to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing to the extent we believe this is necessary to successfully complete these acquisitions or license these technologies. However, additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we make such determinations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity and cash position. Net cash used in operating activities . Net cash used in operating activities was $ 2.3 million and $3.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Cash provided by or used in operating activities is affected by changes in our declining mobile navigation end user base, anticipated growth in our automotive and advertising businesses, and increases in our operating costs, which are primarily driven by headcount related costs and royalty payments for portions of the content provided in our products. In the three months ended September 30, 2018 , cash used in operating activities was primarily the result of a net loss of $7.9 million and an unrealized gain on non-marketable equity investments of $1.3 million , which were partially offset by non-cash charges for stock-based compensation of $ 2.3 million , depreciation and amortization of $ 1.0 million and $3.6 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. In the three months ended September 30, 2017 , cash used in operating activities was primarily the result of a net loss of $10.4 million, which was offset by non-cash charges for stock-based compensation of $2.5 million, depreciation and amortization of $0.7 million and $4.4 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by investing activities . Our investing activities provided $ 0.1 million and $ 1.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Cash flows from investing activities have historically been affected by purchases, sales and maturities of short-term investments, purchases of property and equipment, internal software development costs, and acquisitions. In the three months ended September 30, 2018 , cash provided by investing activities was principally the result of proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $0.2 million , partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $0.1 million . In the three months ended September 30, 2017 , cash 43 Table of Contents provided by investing activities was principally the result of proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $3.3 million, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $2.3 million. Net cash used in financing activities . During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , our financing activities used cash of $ 1.2 million and $ 0.9 million , respectively. In the three months ended September 30, 2018 , we utilized $1.2 million for payment of tax withholdings related to net share settlements of RSUs. In the three months ended September 30, 2017 , we utilized $1.1 million for payment of tax withholdings related to net share settlements of RSUs, which was partially offset by cash of $0.2 million provided from the exercise of stock options. Off-balance sheet arrangements We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies As of September 30, 2018 , we had an aggregate of $22.6 million of future minimum non-cancelable financial commitments primarily related to office space under non-cancelable operating leases and license fees due to certain of our third-party content providers, regardless of usage level. The aggregate of $22.6 million of future minimum commitments were comprised of $6.0 million due in fiscal 2019; $5.6 million due in fiscal 2020; $4.0 million due in fiscal 2021; $3.1 million due in fiscal 2022; $2.6 million due in fiscal 2023; and $1.3 million due thereafter.