Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in the sections entitled Risk Factors and this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, accounting for and future sources of revenue, expectations regarding expenses, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities, retention and expansion of existing customer relationships and the effects of competition. Forward-looking statements include statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, seeks, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks in greater detail in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-Q. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. You should read this Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (http://investor.telenav.com), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on our investor relations website could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on our investor relations website. In this Form 10-Q, we, us, our, the Company and Telenav refer to Telenav, Inc. and its subsidiaries. We operate on a fiscal year ending June 30 and refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 as fiscal 2019 and the fiscal year ending June 30, 2020 as fiscal 2020. Overview Telenav is a leading provider of location-based products and services for connected cars. We utilize our connected car platform to deliver these products and services. Our connected car platform allows us to deliver enhanced location-based navigation services to automobile manufacturers and tier one suppliers, or tier ones. In addition, as discussed below, until August 2019, we utilized our advertising platform, which we refer to as our Ads Business, to deliver highly targeted advertising services to advertisers and advertising agencies by leveraging our location expertise. We reported results through June 30, 2019 in three business segments: automotive, advertising and mobile navigation. Commencing with the quarter ended September 30, 2019, we report results in a single segment, automotive. Our mobile navigation services business, which generates revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers who sell our navigation services to their subscribers, represented less than 5% of total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and we expect the business to continue to decline. Our CEO, the chief operating decision maker, does not review mobile navigation revenue and cost of revenue separately. As a result, we have combined the mobile navigation business with the automotive business in a single segment. We derive revenue primarily from automobile manufacturers and tier ones whose vehicles or systems incorporate our proprietary personalized navigation software and services. These manufacturers and tier ones generally do not provide us with any volume or revenue guarantees. We offer four variations of our connected car products and services to our automobile manufacturer and tier one customers for distribution with their vehicles and systems. First, we offer on-board navigation systems that are built into vehicles with all key elements of the system residing in the vehicle as a self-contained application along with the related software and content. Our on-board navigation products do not require access to the Internet or wireless networks to function. Second, we offer advanced navigation solutions that contain on-board functionality and also add cloud functionality such as cloud search, cloud routing, map updates and live data. We refer to these solutions as hybrid navigation. Third, we offer mobile phone-based navigation solutions that run on the phone and provide an interactive map and navigation instructions to 22 Table of Contents the vehicle's video screen and audio system , which we refer to as brought-in navigation. Finally, we offer a software development kit, or SDK, that enables our customers to add mapping and location capabilities to their cloud, mobile and on-board automotive applications. We believe our history as a supplier of cloud-based navigation services combined with our proven track record of delivering navigation solutions to three of the top five global automobile manufacturers provides a unique advantage in the automotive navigation marketplace over our competitors. We provide our automotive navigation products and services to automobile manufacturers such as Ford Motor Company and affiliated entities, or Ford, which represented 54% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2019 , General Motors Holdings and its affiliates, or GM, which represented 25% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2019 , and Toyota Motor Corporation, or Toyota. We also provide our products and services indirectly through tier ones such as Xevo Inc., or Xevo, for certain Toyota solutions, LG Electronics, Inc., or LG, for certain Opel Automobile GmbH, or Opel, solutions and Panasonic Automotive Systems Company of America, or Panasonic, for certain Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, or FCA, solutions. We generate product revenue from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications, map updates to the software and customized software development. We generate services revenue from brought-in automotive navigation solutions, advertising services and mobile navigation services. Ford utilizes our on-board automotive navigation product in its Ford SYNC platform. Ford pays us a royalty fee on SYNC 3 on-board solutions as our software is installed in the vehicle. We also derive product revenue from map update fees. We generate automotive services revenue primarily from our brought-in automotive navigation solutions. We earn a fee for each new vehicle owner who downloads and activates the associated mobile application featuring GM's branded mobile and web-based applications, whereby we provide enhanced search capabilities for contracted service periods. We also earn a fee for each new Toyota and Lexus vehicle sold and enabled to connect with our Scout GPS Link mobile application, similarly provided over a contracted service period. For its hybrid navigation solutions, GM pays us a royalty fee as the SD card is shipped for installation in vehicles; this royalty includes a fee for the initial connected service to be provided once the vehicle is sold. GM will pay us an additional service fee for connected solution subscriptions for each end user that elects to renew their OnStar Connected Navigation or Connected Navigation subscription with GM. Through August 2019, we generated services revenue from our Ads Business through the delivery of advertising impressions based on the specific terms of the advertising contract. In August 2019, we sold the Ads Business to inMarket. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the Asset Purchase Agreement, inMarket acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities related to and used in the Ads Business. In exchange, inMarket issued to Telenav units of inMarket representing a 14.5% member interest in inMarket at the time of closing of the inMarket Transaction. In addition, inMarket granted to us a perpetual, non-exclusive, irrevocable, royalty-free, license back to the software and other intellectual property rights being assigned to inMarket as part of the inMarket Transaction. For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and for all prior comparative periods, we reported the operating results of the Ads Business and the loss on its sale as discontinued operations in our condensed consolidated financial statements. In August 2019, we entered into certain agreements with affiliates of Grab Holdings, Inc., which, collectively with certain of its affiliates, we refer to as Grab, including: (i) a services agreement pursuant to which we agreed that we will provide certain services to Grab through certain of our employees designated to work on our OpenTerra Platform; (ii) a license agreement pursuant to which we have granted to Grab a perpetual license to certain intellectual property associated with the OpenTerra Platform; and (iii) an asset purchase agreement pursuant to which we will sell certain intellectual property associated with the OpenTerra Platform to Grab and facilitate the making of offers for employment or consulting arrangements by Grab of certain of our OpenTerra employees. The transactions contemplated by the services agreement, license agreement and asset purchase agreement together comprise the Grab Transaction. The consideration for the services agreement, license agreement and asset purchase agreement is a mix of cash and Grab Holdings, Inc. ordinary shares. The asset purchase component of the Grab Transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to close before June 30, 2020. For a discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could impact our business, financial condition and operating results, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 23 Table of Contents Key operating and financial performance metrics We monitor the key operating and financial performance metrics set forth in the tables below to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess our operational efficiencies. Certain of these measures such as billings, changes in deferred revenue and deferred costs, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow are not measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to any measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because other companies may not calculate them in the same manner that we do. Our key operating and financial performance metrics are as follows (in thousands, except percentages and per share amounts): Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 Revenue $ 64,455 $ 46,252 Revenue from Ford as a percentage of total revenue 54 % 67 % Revenue from GM as a percentage of total revenue 25 % 16 % Billings (Non-GAAP) $ 76,577 $ 53,094 Billings to Ford as a percentage of total billings (Non-GAAP) 39 % 60 % Billings to GM as a percentage of total billings (Non-GAAP) 26 % 19 % Increase in deferred revenue $ 12,122 $ 6,842 Increase in deferred costs $ (2,007 ) $ 4,381 Gross profit $ 27,604 $ 18,710 Gross margin 43 % 40 % Loss from continuing operations $ (2,142 ) $ (6,085 ) Net loss $ (6,128 ) $ (7,570 ) Diluted loss from continuing operations per share $ (0.04 ) $ (0.14 ) Diluted net loss per share $ (0.13 ) $ (0.17 ) Adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP) $ 382 $ (3,877 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 22,169 $ (554 ) Free cash flow (Non-GAAP) $ 21,708 $ (653 ) Gross margin is our gross profit, or total revenue less cost of revenue, expressed as a percentage of our total revenue. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be impacted by the increasing percentage of our revenue base derived from automotive navigation solutions and advertising network services, which generally have higher associated third-party content costs and third-party display ad inventory costs, respectively, than our mobile navigation offerings provided through wireless carriers. Billings equals revenue recognized plus the change in deferred revenue from the beginning to the end of the applicable period. We have also provided a breakdown of the calculation of the change in deferred revenue by segment, which is added to revenue in calculating our non-GAAP billings metric. In connection with our presentation of the change in deferred revenue, we have provided a similar presentation of the change in the related deferred costs. Such deferred costs primarily include costs associated with third-party content and certain development costs associated with our customized software solutions whereby customized engineering fees are earned. As we enter into more hybrid and brought-in navigation programs, deferred revenue and deferred costs become larger components of our operating results, so we believe these metrics are useful in evaluating cash flows. We consider billings to be a useful metric for management and investors because billings drive revenue and deferred revenue, which is an important indicator of our business. There are a number of limitations related to the use of billings versus revenue calculated in accordance with GAAP. First, billings include amounts that have not yet been recognized as revenue. For example, billings related to certain brought-in solutions cannot be fully recognized as revenue in a given period due to requirements for ongoing map updates and provisioning of services such as hosting, monitoring, customer support, map updates and, for certain customers, additional period content and associated technology costs. Second, we may calculate billings in a 24 Table of Contents manner that is different from peer companies that report similar financial measures, making comparisons between companies more difficult. When we use this measure, we attempt to compensate for these limitations by providing specific information regarding billings and how they relate to revenue calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA measures our GAAP net loss adjusted for discontinued operations and excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, other income (expense), net, provision (benefit) for income taxes, and other applicable items such as legal settlements and contingencies and merger and acquisition, or M&A, transaction expenses, net of tax. Stock-based compensation expense relates to equity incentive awards granted to our employees, directors, and consultants. Legal settlements and contingencies represent settlements, offers made to settle, or loss accruals relating to litigation or other disputes in which we are a party or the indemnitor of a party. M&A transaction expenses relate primarily to costs associated with transactions, such as the inMarket Transaction and the Grab Transaction. Adjusted EBITDA, while generally a measure of profitability, can also represent a loss. Adjusted EBITDA is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operational plans. In particular, we believe that the exclusion of the expenses eliminated in calculating adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA generally provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure we define as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash (used in) generated by our business after purchases of property and equipment. These non-GAAP measures have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: We expect to incur additional costs in the future due to requirements to provide ongoing provisioning of services such as hosting, monitoring and customer support; accordingly, deferred costs do not reflect all costs associated with billings; assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditures; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; adjusted EBITDAs does not reflect the use of cash for net share settlements of RSUs; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect tax payments that historically have represented a reduction in cash available to us or tax benefits that may arise as a result of generating net losses; and adjusted EBITDA, free cash flow or similarly titled measures may be calculated by other companies differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Because of these and other limitations, billings, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow should be considered alongside other GAAP-based financial performance measures. We reconcile the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to each non-GAAP financial metric used. The following tables present reconciliations of revenue to billings, deferred revenue to the change in deferred revenue, deferred costs to the change in deferred costs, net loss to adjusted EBITDA, and net loss and net cash flow used in operating activities to free cash flow for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): 25 Table of Contents Reconciliation of Revenue to Billings Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 Revenue $ 64,455 $ 46,252 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue 12,122 6,842 Billings $ 76,577 $ 53,094 Reconciliation of Deferred Revenue to Change in Deferred Revenue Reconciliation of Deferred Costs to Change in Deferred Costs Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 Deferred revenue, September 30 $ 147,257 $ 81,380 Deferred revenue, June 30 135,135 74,538 Change in deferred revenue $ 12,122 $ 6,842 Deferred costs, September 30 $ 77,795 $ 62,806 Deferred costs, June 30 79,802 58,425 Change in deferred costs(1) $ (2,007 ) $ 4,381 Reconciliation of Revenue to Billings - Ford and GM Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 Revenue from Ford $ 34,912 $ 30,811 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue attributed to Ford (4,782 ) 962 Billings to Ford $ 30,130 $ 31,773 Billings to Ford as a percentage of total billings 39 % 60 % Revenue from GM $ 16,362 $ 7,446 Adjustments: Change in deferred revenue attributed to GM 3,272 2,855 Billings to GM $ 19,634 $ 10,301 Billings to GM as a percentage of total billings 26 % 19 % 26 Table of Contents Reconciliation of Net Loss to Adjusted EBITDA Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 Net loss $ (6,128 ) $ (7,570 ) Loss on discontinued operations 3,986 1,485 Loss from continuing operations (2,142 ) (6,085 ) Adjustments: Stock-based compensation expense 1,752 2,048 Depreciation and amortization expense 922 1,010 Other income, net (561 ) (1,590 ) Provision for income taxes 411 740 Adjusted EBITDA $ 382 $ (3,877 ) Reconciliation of Net Loss to Free Cash Flow Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 Net loss $ (6,128 ) $ (7,570 ) Loss on discontinued operations 3,986 1,485 Loss from continuing operations (2,142 ) (6,085 ) Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities: Change in deferred revenue (1) 12,221 6,842 Change in deferred costs (2) 1,979 (4,381 ) Changes in other operating assets and liabilities 6,780 1,266 Other adjustments (3) 3,331 1,804 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 22,169 (554 ) Less: Purchases of property and equipment (461 ) (99 ) Free cash flow $ 21,708 $ (653 ) (1) Consists of product royalties, customized software development fees, service fees and subscription fees. (2) Consists primarily of third-party content costs and customized software development expenses. (3) Consist primarily of depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and other non-cash items. 27 Table of Contents Key components of our results of operations Sources of revenue Overview . We classify our revenue as either product or services revenue. Product revenue consists primarily of revenue we receive from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications, map updates to the software and customized software development. Services revenue consists primarily of revenue we derive from our brought-in automotive navigation services. Commencing July 1, 2019, we operate in a single segment, automotive. Through June 30, 2019 , we operated in three segments - automotive, advertising and mobile navigation. In August 2019, we completed the disposition of our Ads Business and have presented the results of operations for the Ads Business as discontinued operations for all prior periods presented. Our mobile navigation services business represented less than 5% of total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and we expect the business to continue to decline. Our CEO, the chief operating decision maker, does not review mobile navigation revenue and cost of revenue separately. As a result, we have combined the mobile navigation services business with the automotive business in a single segment. In the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , revenue from Ford represented 54% and 67% of our total revenue, respectively, and revenue from GM comprised 25% and 16% of total revenue, respectively. Our contract with Ford covers a broad range of products and services that we provide to Ford. On March 28, 2018, we entered into an amendment with Ford that extends the term of the agreement from December 31, 2018 to December 31, 2020 for each jurisdiction in which we currently provide our products to Ford. On December 14, 2017, Ford also selected us to provide its next generation navigation solution in North America, subject to certain conditions and execution of an agreement regarding those solutions. The terms of this next generation navigation solution were embodied in an amendment executed in December 2018. With respect to North America production, this amendment extended the term of the agreement to December 31, 2022, which term may be further extended at Fords option subject to certain conditions. We were not awarded the contracts for Europe, South America and Australia and New Zealand. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our revenue, and, to a lesser extent, gross profit, is impacted by the underlying licensed content cost negotiated through HERE North America, LLC, or HERE, and other content providers and we cannot predict the impact on our revenue and gross profit of any changes between Ford and the map or other content providers. Our contract with GM includes the provision of our on-board, hybrid, and brought-in navigation solutions across a wide assortment of GM vehicles. Our mobile navigation SDK powers GMs branded mobile and web-based applications and is covered under a services agreement that was entered into June 13, 2014 and extends to December 31, 2019. Our on-board and hybrid navigation solutions for GM are covered under a product and services agreement that became effective February 1, 2017. These solutions began shipping in a limited number of vehicles beginning with model year 2017 and are gradually expanding across additional regions and models. In May 2017, additional vehicles through model year 2025 were added to this products and services agreement, which terminates on December 31, 2026. Although it does not affect the terms of our agreement with GM, on September 5, 2019, GM announced that it intended to utilize GAS solutions on certain models beginning with model year 2022. Product revenue . Our automotive product revenue is generated primarily from on-board and hybrid automotive navigation solutions provided to Ford and GM. Our on-board solutions consist of software, memory card, map and point of interest, or POI, data loaded in the vehicle that provides voice-guided turn by turn navigation displayed on the vehicle screen. Our hybrid navigation solutions contain on-board software functionality and also add cloud functionality such as cloud search, cloud routing, map updates and live data. Royalties for on-board navigation solutions are generally earned at various points in time, depending upon the individual customer agreement. We earn each royalty upon either the re-imaging of the software on each individual memory card or the time at which each vehicle is produced. We recognize revenue from on-board automotive navigation solutions upon transfer of control of the customized software and any associated integrated content together forming a distinct performance obligation. Transfer of control generally occurs at a point in time upon acceptance. Any royalties for the use of distinct software combined with integrated content, with an allocation of the transaction price based on the relative standalone selling price, or SSP, of map updates, specified upgrades, and other services as applicable, are recognized at the later of when the royalties are earned or when transfer of control of the related performance obligation has occurred. For hybrid automotive solutions, the transaction price allocated to the on-board component is generally recognized as product revenue as described above, and the transaction price allocated to the included cloud functionality based on SSP is 28 Table of Contents generally recognized as services revenue. Since the on-board software is still the predominant item in the hybrid solution, the royalties recognition guidance applies as it does for on-board navigation solutions described above. Our brought-in automotive navigation solutions as described below are subject to variable consideration and constraint guidance. Our product revenue from Ford is primarily derived from Fords SYNC 3 on-board solutions. In each geography where we provide navigation products to it, Ford also provides a map update program under which Ford owners in North America, South America, China and Europe with SYNC 3 and in Australia and New Zealand with SYNC 2 or SYNC 3 are eligible to receive annual map updates at no additional cost through the applicable contractual period. We earn an annual compilation fee and a per unit fee for these updates included in the pricing arrangement. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on Ford for a material portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future . We also have agreements with GM. In February 2017, GM launched its first model featuring integration of our hybrid navigation solution in North America, the 2017 Cadillac CTS and CTS-V. Our solution is currently available in North America on select 2019 models of Cadillac, GMC, Chevrolet and Buick. GM has also launched vehicles with our hybrid navigation solution in China and the Middle East. Our on-board and connected navigation solution is scheduled to become available in additional regions and GM models for model years 2020 through 2025. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on GM for a material portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future . We provide entry level on-board navigation through LG, a tier one supplier for the Opel and Vauxhall line of vehicles, for the European market. This solution launched in Opels Adam, Corsa, Karl and Zafira model vehicles in July 2017. These products are expected to be made available in other select vehicles for model years 2020 to 2022. GM sold its Opel and Vauxhall business to Groupe PSA in August 2017, and we continue to engage in development of similar solutions for Opel and Vauxhall. We also have an agreement to offer our on-board navigation solution in select Jeep and Chrysler vehicles in the China market through Panasonic. Our on-board navigation was initially included in the 2018 Jeep Grand Cherokee, which had its China launch in August 2017, and is now included in Jeep Cherokee and Compass models in China. In August 2019, we entered into certain agreements with Grab, including: (i) a services agreement pursuant to which we agreed that we will provide certain services to Grab through certain of our employees designated to work on our OpenTerra Platform; (ii) a license agreement pursuant to which we have granted to Grab a perpetual license to certain intellectual property associated with the OpenTerra Platform; and (iii) an asset purchase agreement pursuant to which we will sell certain intellectual property associated with the OpenTerra Platform to Grab and facilitate the making of offers for employment or consulting arrangements by Grab of certain of our OpenTerra employees. We amended the license agreement with Grab during the three months ended September 30, 2019. The combined agreements, as amended, contain the following distinct performance obligations: the right to use software significantly modified to operate within the Grab environment, implementation services, and software support and maintenance. In addition, Grab has the right to purchase the assets associated with our OpenTerra Platform for a limited period of time. Software is recognized as product revenue when testing has been completed for the transferred software modules. Services revenue . We derive services revenue primarily from our brought-in automotive navigation solutions and, to a lesser extent, from the cloud functionality that is a component of our hybrid automotive navigation solutions as discussed above. Royalties for brought-in navigation solutions are earned upon vehicle sales reporting or upon initial usage by the end user. Since these contracts typically contain a substantial amount of variable consideration that is required to be estimated and included in the transaction price, we include in the transaction price only variable consideration such that it is probable that a risk of significant revenue reversal will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. Total variable consideration to be received is estimated at contract inception and updated at each reporting date. We utilize the expected value method and consider expected unit volume combined with a risk-based probability based on factors including, but not limited to: model year cycles, customer history, technology life cycles, nature of competition and other contract-specific factors. Because customers of our brought-in automotive navigation solutions simultaneously receive and consume the benefit from our performance, we recognize revenue ratably over the period the services obligation is expected to be fulfilled, generally 8 to 12 years, as this provides a faithful depiction of the transfer of control. In October 2017, we amended our agreement with Ford to provide certain connected services for SYNC 3 in North America, Europe and China. Ford launched connected search across various model year 2018 SYNC 3 vehicles in North America using its FordPass TM and Lincoln Way TM mobile applications. The vast majority of Ford vehicles with SYNC 3 produced in North America and Europe during the three months ended September 30, 2019 were capable of providing connected services. 29 Table of Contents GM offers its OnStar RemoteLink feature including our location-based services platform, and we earn a one-time fee for each new vehicle owner who downloads the associated MyBrand mobile application, including a localized version offered in Europe for the Opel and Vauxhall brands. We have a partnership with Toyota for brought-in navigation services where our Scout GPS Link mobile application is available in select Entune Audio equipped Toyota vehicles in North America and in select Lexus Enform equipped Lexus models. Toyota and Lexus vehicles enabled to connect with our Scout GPS Link began shipping in August 2015 and September 2016, respectively. We earn a one-time fee for each new Toyota or Lexus sold and enabled to connect to our Scout GPS Link mobile application. In addition, our Scout GPS Link and Xevos Xevo TM Engine Link provide brought-in navigation services, including a fully interactive moving map, for select Toyota vehicles equipped with Entune 3.0 Audio, as well as select Lexus vehicles equipped with Lexus Enform. Our fully interactive solution first became available on select model year 2018 Toyota Camry and Sienna and Lexus NX and RC models, and was expanded to select model year 2019 Toyota Corolla hatchback, Avalon, CHR and RAV4 models, as well as Lexus UX and select model year 2020 Corolla, Prius,Avalon and Sienna models. On most Toyota and Lexus models, a premium embedded connected navigation option is also available that provides connected search, powered by our platform. While we have seen expansion of our latest version of Scout GPS Link solution across more Toyota and Lexus models in fiscal 2019, we expect that Toyota may limit or reduce the number of models or vehicles on which Scout GPS Link is offered by Toyota and Lexus, beginning in model year 2021, due in part to the offering of alternative brought-in solutions such as Apples CarPlay, which Toyota is offering across certain Toyota models, and the expanded offering of Googles Android Auto solution across more automobile manufacturers. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, Telenav entered into an amended agreement with Xevo. The amended agreement provides that we will receive a one-time $17.0 million cash pre-payment in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 in exchange for removing a contractual minimum unit commitment that otherwise would have resulted in a payment to us in fiscal 2027. We recorded the receivable as deferred revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, and it will be recognized as revenue over future periods. Our contract with Xevo relating to the implementation of our solutions in Toyota and Lexus vehicles is expected to remain in place through 2026, and we are exploring additional opportunities with Xevo and Toyota as well. We recognize services revenue from the Grab Transaction for implementation services performed over time using an input-based methodology based on hours incurred. Other services revenue from Grab includes software support and maintenance that is recognized over time during the entitlement period. We generate mobile navigation revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers who sell our navigation services to their subscribers either as a standalone service or in a bundle with other data or services. Mobile navigation revenue is included with automotive revenue for all periods presented. Revenue concentrations . We generated 76% and 84% of our revenue in the United States in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. With respect to revenue we receive from automobile manufacturers and tier ones for sales of vehicles in other countries, we classify the majority of that revenue as being generated in the United States, because we provide deliverables to and receive compensation from the manufacturers or tier ones United States entity. It is possible that this classification may change in the future, as existing and new customers may elect to contract through subsidiaries. For example, in fiscal 2017, Ford assigned certain contract rights for its production of vehicles with our SYNC 3 products to its joint venture in China. Cost of revenue We classify our cost of revenue as either cost of product revenue or cost of services revenue. Cost of product revenue consists primarily of the cost of third-party content we incur in providing our on-board automotive navigation solutions, memory cards and recognition of deferred software development costs. Cost of services revenue consists primarily of the costs associated with third-party content we incur in providing our brought-in automotive navigation solutions, data center operations and outsourced hosting services, software maintenance, customer support, the amortization of capitalized software, recognition of deferred customized software development costs, stock-based compensation and amortization of acquired developed technology. We capitalize and defer recognition of certain third-party royalty-based content costs associated with the fulfillment of future automotive product and services obligations, and we recognize these deferred content costs as cost of revenue as we transfer control of the related performance obligation. As the deferred revenue and related deferred costs are recognized as we 30 Table of Contents transfer control of the related performance obligation, we will also incur ongoing costs of revenue for network operations, hosting and data center, customer service support, and other related costs over time. We also capitalize and defer recognition of certain costs, primarily payroll and related compensation and benefits expense, of customized software we develop for customers. We begin deferring development costs when they relate directly to a contract or specific anticipated contract and such costs are incurred to satisfy performance obligations in the future, provided they are expected to be recovered. We recognize these deferred software development costs as cost of revenue upon transfer of control of the associated performance obligation. We primarily provide navigation service customer support through a third-party provider to whom we provide training and assistance with problem resolution. In addition, we use outsourced, hosting services and industry standard hardware to provide our navigation services. We generally maintain at least 99.9% uptime every month, excluding designated periods of maintenance. Our internal targets for service uptime are even higher. We have in the past, and may in the future, not achieve our targets for service availability, which could result in penalties for failure to meet contractual service availability requirements or termination of our customer agreement. Operating expenses We generally classify our operating expenses into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, which include salaries, bonuses, payroll taxes, employee benefit costs and stock-based compensation expense. Other expenses include marketing program costs, third-party contractor and temporary staffing services, facilities-related costs including rent expense, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional service fees. We allocate stock-based compensation expense resulting from the amortization of the fair value of stock-based awards granted, based on the department in which the award holder works. We allocate overhead, such as rent and depreciation, to each expense category based on headcount. In addition, when we incur legal settlements, make offers to settle contingencies or accrue losses relating to litigation or other disputes in which we are a party or the indemnitor of a party, we classify such operating expense amounts separately as legal settlements and contingencies. We anticipate continued investment of resources, including the hiring of additional headcount, or reallocation of employee personnel to automotive and advertising. We may also be required to pay judgments, indemnification claims or other amounts, which we are unable to predict or estimate at this time. Research and development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our development and product management employees and related costs of outside consultants and temporary staffing. We have focused our research and development efforts on improving the ease of use and functionality of our existing products and services as well as developing new products and services. In addition to our U.S. employee base, a significant number of our research and development employees are located in our development centers in China and Romania; as a result, a portion of our research and development expense is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates, notably the Chinese Renminbi, or RMB, the Romanian Leu, or RON, and the Euro. Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our sales and marketing staff and the cost of marketing programs, advertising and promotional activities. Our sales and marketing activities include the costs of our business development efforts. Our automobile manufacturer partners and tier ones also provide primary marketing for our on-board and brought-in navigation services. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional services and corporate expenses. Legal settlements and contingencies . Legal settlements and contingencies represent settlements, offers made to settle, or loss accruals relating to litigation or other disputes in which we are a party or the indemnitor of a party. Other income (expense), net . Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest we earn on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, gain or loss on investments, unrealized gains or losses on non-marketable equity investments and foreign currency gains or losses. Provision for income taxes . Our provision for income taxes primarily consists of corporate income taxes related to profits earned in foreign jurisdictions, foreign withholding taxes, and changes to our tax reserves. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly in those periods in which we incur losses, due to our inability to benefit from net operating losses since the tax assets are not likely to be realized due to the lack of current and forecasted future income. Furthermore, on a quarterly basis our tax rates can fluctuate due to changes in our tax reserves resulting from the settlement of tax audits or the expiration of the statute of limitations. Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to a change in our 31 Table of Contents earnings or loss projections, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as the expiration and retroactive reinstatement of tax holidays. Critical accounting policies and estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require our judgment in its application. In other cases, our judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting policies that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. In many instances, we could reasonably use different accounting estimates, and in some instances changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2019, except as described in Note 1 to our condensed consolidated financial statements, Summary of business and significant accounting policies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to our condensed consolidated financial statements, Summary of business and significant accounting policies. 32 Table of Contents Results of operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , as well as a percentage that each line item represents of our total revenue for those periods. The additional key metrics presented are used in addition to the financial measures reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of operations data to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. The period to period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of financial results to be achieved in future periods. Three Months Ended September 30, Consolidated Statements of Operations Data 2019 2018 (in thousands) Revenue: Product $ 55,183 $ 39,930 Services 9,272 6,322 Total revenue 64,455 46,252 Cost of revenue: Product 31,989 23,588 Services 4,862 3,954 Total cost of revenue 36,851 27,542 Gross profit 27,604 18,710 Operating expenses: Research and development 20,663 18,492 Sales and marketing 1,946 1,703 General and administrative 7,287 5,450 Total operating expenses 29,896 25,645 Income (loss) from operations (2,292 ) (6,935 ) Other income, net 561 1,590 Income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income taxes (1,731 ) (5,345 ) Provision for income taxes 411 740 Income (loss) from continuing operations (2,142 ) (6,085 ) Loss on discontinued operations (3,986 ) (1,485 ) Net loss $ (6,128 ) $ (7,570 ) (as a percentage of revenue) Revenue: Product 86 % 86 % Services 14 % 14 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue: Product 50 % 51 % Services 7 % 9 % Total cost of revenue 57 % 60 % Gross profit 43 % 40 % Operating expenses: Research and development 32 % 40 % Sales and marketing 3 % 3 % General and administrative 12 % 12 % Total operating expenses 47 % 55 % Income (loss) from operations (4 )% (15 )% Other income, net 1 % 3 % Income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income taxes (3 )% (12 )% Provision for income taxes % 1 % Income (loss) from continuing operations (3 )% (13 )% Loss on discontinued operations (6 )% (3 )% Net loss (10 )% (16 )% 33 Table of Contents Comparison of the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 Revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit . Revenue. Product revenue increased 38% to $55.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 from $39.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . The increase in product revenue for the comparable three months was due primarily to increases in map update revenue of $7.3 million, royalty revenue of $4.7 million resulting primarily from a higher volume of GM automotive navigation units, partially offset by a decline in Ford automotive navigation units, and customized software development revenue of $3.3 million resulting primarily from our license agreement with Grab. Services revenue increased 47% to $9.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 from $6.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . The increase in services revenue for the comparable three months was due primarily to increased revenue from our brought-in automotive solutions for GM, Toyota and Ford and, to a lesser extent, revenue from implementation services provided for Grab. Cost of revenue . Our cost of product revenue increased 36% to $32.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 from $23.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . The increase in the comparable three months was due primarily to increased third-party content costs associated with higher map update revenue and increased automotive navigation unit volume. Our cost of services revenue increased 23% to $4.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 from $4.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . The increase in the comparable three months was due primarily to an increase in content costs associated with increased revenue from brought-in solutions. The increase in total cost of revenue of $9.3 million in the comparable three months was due primarily to an increase in third-party content costs of $8.6 million and an increase in deferred development costs recognized of $0.7 million. Gross profit . Our gross profit increased 48% to $27.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 from $18.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . Our gross margin increased to 43% in the three months ended September 30, 2019 from 40% in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . The increase in gross margin for the comparable three months was due primarily to a significantly higher margin earned on software development revenue from Grab, partially offset by a decrease in gross margin resulting from increased map update revenue, which carries a higher relative cost and lower gross margin. We anticipate somewhat higher gross margins in periods of fiscal 2020 during which we are able to recognize revenue from Grab for the development and delivery of customized software. Revenue concentrations . In the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , revenue from Ford represented 54% and 67% of our total revenue, respectively, and revenue from GM comprised 25% and 16% of our total revenue, respectively. We primarily sell our services in the United States. In the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , revenue derived from U.S. sources represented 76% and 84% of our total revenue, respectively. Operating expenses Our total operating expenses increased 17% to $29.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 from $25.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . The increase in the comparable three months was due primarily to an increase in payroll and related compensation and benefits expense resulting from increased research and development headcount, and an increase in outside consulting services. Research and development . Our research and development expenses increased 12% to $20.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 from $18.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . The increase in the comparable three months was due primarily to increases in payroll and related compensation and benefits expense of $1.7 million and outside consulting services of $0.9 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.9 million primarily as a result of higher capitalized deferred development costs in the three months ended September 30, 2019 . As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses decreased to 32% in the three months ended September 30, 2019 from 40% in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . The total number of research and development personnel increased 8% to 672 at September 30, 2019 from 625 at September 30, 2018 . We believe that as we deliver our contracted customer requirements for our automotive customers and establish relationships with new automobile manufacturers and tier ones, revenue from those research and development efforts will lag the related expenses. Sales and marketing . Our sales and marketing expenses increased 14% to $1.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 from $1.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . The increase in the comparable three months was due primarily to an increase in outside consulting services. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses were comparable at 3% in each of the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 . The total number of sales and marketing personnel increased 4% to 24 at September 30, 2019 from 23 at September 30, 2018 . 34 Table of Contents General and administrative . Our general and administrative expenses increased 34% to $7.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 from $5.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . The increase in the comparable three months was due primarily to increases in outside consulting services of $1.2 million and payroll and related compensation and benefits expense of $0.6 million. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses were comparable at 12% in each of the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 . The total number of general and administrative personnel increased 3% to 62 at September 30, 2019 from 60 at September 30, 2018 . Other income, net . Our other income, net decreased to $0.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $1.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . The decrease in the comparable three months was due primarily to the inclusion in the three months ended September 30, 2018 of an unrealized gain of $1.3 million recorded on non-marketable equity investments resulting from a change in accounting for such investments due to our adoption of ASU 2016-01 effective July 1, 2018. Provision for income taxes . Our provision for income taxes was $0.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $0.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . Our provision for income taxes was $411,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $740,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and was comprised primarily of foreign withholding taxes and income taxes in foreign jurisdictions where we have profit. Our effective tax provision rate of 24% and 14% of loss from continuing operations for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, was greater than the tax amount computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to losses for which no benefit will be recognized since the tax assets are not likely to be realized due to the lack of current and forecasted future income. Although the total income tax provision did not change for the three months ended September 30, 2018 , taxes were allocated to discontinued operations in an amount equal to the difference between the tax originally computed on loss from operations and the tax recomputed on the amount of loss from continuing operations. We anticipate that our foreign tax withholding obligations will continue into the future and that we will not be able to benefit from an offsetting deduction in the United States for an extended period of time given our existing net operating loss carryforwards. We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in accordance with authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. As of September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019 , our cumulative unrecognized tax benefits were $4.8 million and $4.6 million , respectively. Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019 was $0.1 million and $0.1 million that if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our provision for income taxes. We accrued zero and zero for the payment of interest and penalties at September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019 . We file income tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, California, various states and foreign tax jurisdictions in which we have filing obligations. The statute of limitations remains open from fiscal 2016 for federal tax purposes, from fiscal 2014 in state jurisdictions, and from fiscal 2013 in foreign jurisdictions. Fiscal years outside the normal statute of limitations remain open to audit by tax authorities due to tax attributes generated in those early years which have been carried forward and may be audited in subsequent years when utilized. Due to operating losses in previous years and continued earnings volatility, we maintain a valuation allowance on the majority of our foreign deferred tax assets. Our valuation allowance at June 30, 2019 was $48.4 million . In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets each quarter, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including current and previous operating results, ability to carryback losses for a tax refund, and forecasts of future operating results. Loss on discontinued operations . Our loss on discontinued operations of $4.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 consisted of income of $0.8 million from operations of our Ads Business offset by a loss of $4.8 million from the sale of our Ads Business in August 2019. Our loss from the sale of the Ads Business of $4.8 million included $1.9 million comprising severance for Ads Business employees who were not offered employment with inMarket and acceleration of stock-based awards vesting for certain Ads Business executives who were not offered employment with inMarket, and $0.4 million comprising legal fees and third-party consulting fees associated with the inMarket Transaction. Our loss on discontinued operations in the three months ended September 30, 2018 consisted of a $1.5 million loss from operations of our Ads Business. 35 Table of Contents Liquidity and capital resources The following table sets forth the major sources and uses of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash for continuing operations for each of the periods set forth below (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 22,169 $ (554 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (32,827 ) 142 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 7,474 (1,182 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (336 ) (239 ) Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, continuing operations $ (3,520 ) $ (1,833 ) At September 30, 2019 , we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $121.8 million , which primarily consisted of corporate bonds, asset-backed securities, U.S. treasury securities, commercial paper and municipal securities held. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held and managed by financial institutions that are required to adhere to our investment policy. Our accounts receivable are heavily concentrated in a small number of customers. As of September 30, 2019 , our accounts receivable balance was $53.0 million , of which Ford and GM represented 42% and 23% , respectively. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to continue to increase our billings and control our expenses in fiscal 2020 and beyond, whether and when we return to profitability, the timing and extent of expenditures to support development efforts, the extent of our research and development and sales and marketing activities and the size of our related headcount, the introduction of our new and enhanced service and product offerings and the timing and scale of the introduction of vehicles including our navigation products relative to when we are required to develop the product. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to satisfy our financial obligations through at least the next 12 months. However, we may continue to use cash in operating activities in the remainder of fiscal 2020 and we may experience greater than expected cash usage in operating activities if revenue or collections are lower than we anticipate or we incur greater than expected cost of revenue or operating expenses. Our revenue and operating results could be lower than we anticipate if, among other reasons, our customers, two of which we are substantially dependent upon for a large portion of our revenue, were to limit or terminate our relationships with them, we were to fail to successfully compete in our highly competitive market or our revenue did not grow as expected, we were unable to record revenue from our agreement with Grab or we were required to record losses related to our ownership interest in inMarket. In the future, we may acquire businesses or technologies or license technologies from third parties, and we may decide to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing to the extent we believe this is necessary to successfully complete these acquisitions or license these technologies. However, additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we make such determinations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity and cash position. Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities . Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $ 22.2 million and $(0.6) million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Cash provided by or used in operating activities is affected by anticipated growth in our automotive business and increases in our operating costs, which are primarily driven by headcount related costs and royalty payments for portions of the content provided in our products. In the three months ended September 30, 2019 , cash provided by operating activities was primarily the result of a net loss of $6.1 million , adjusted for loss from discontinued operations of $4.0 million , which was more than offset by non-cash charges for stock-based compensation of $1.8 million , depreciation and amortization of $ 0.9 million and $21.0 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. In the three months ended September 30, 2018 , cash used in operating activities was primarily the result of a net loss of $7.6 million , adjusted for loss from discontinued operations of $1.5 million , which was partially offset by non-cash charges for stock-based compensation of $2.0 million , depreciation and amortization of $1.0 million and $3.7 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities . Our investing activities (used) provided $ (32.8) million and $ 0.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Cash flows from investing activities have historically been affected by purchases, sales and maturities of short-term investments, purchases of property and equipment, internal software development costs, and acquisitions. In the three months ended September 30, 2019 , cash used in investing activities was principally the result of purchases of short-term investments, net of proceeds from sales and maturities of $30.4 million and purchases of property and equipment of $0.5 million . In the three months ended September 30, 2018 , cash provided 36 Table of Contents by investing activities was principally the result of proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $0.2 million , partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $0.1 million . Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities . During the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , our financing activities provided (used) cash of $ 7.5 million and $(1.2) million , respectively. In the three months ended September 30, 2019 , we received cash of $8.3 million provided from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by the utilization of $0.8 million for payment of tax withholdings related to net share settlements of RSUs. In the three months ended September 30, 2018 , we utilized $1.2 million for payment of tax withholdings related to net share settlements of RSUs. Contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies As of September 30, 2019 , we had $19.5 million of future minimum non-cancelable financial commitments primarily related to office space under operating leases and license fees due to certain of our third-party content providers, regardless of usage level. These commitments are primarily due within five years.