Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in the sections entitled Risk Factors and this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, future sources of revenue, expectations of expenses, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities and the effects of competition. Forward-looking statements include statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, seeks, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks in greater detail in Risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-Q. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. You should read this Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. 18 Table of Contents In this Form 10-Q, we, us and our refer to Telenav, Inc. and its subsidiaries. We operate on a fiscal year ending June 30 and refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 as fiscal 2014" and the fiscal year ending June 30, 2015 as "fiscal 2015. Overview Telenav is a leading provider of location-based platform services. These services consist of our map and navigation platform and our advertising delivery platform. Our map and navigation platform allows Telenav to deliver enhanced location based services to developers, auto manufacturers and end users. We use our map and navigation platform as the basis for delivering enhanced mobile applications such as our industry leading mobile navigation. Our advertising delivery platform delivers highly targeted advertising services leveraging our location expertise. Recently, we have focused on enhancing our map and navigation platform by closely aligning our technology to the OpenStreetMap, or OSM, community. In January 2014, we completed our acquisition of all of the shares of privately held skobbler GmbH, or skobbler, a location-based services company based in Germany. We believe the acquisition of skobbler will enable us to combine its OSM-based GPS navigation technology with our existing mobile navigation solutions. We offer our map and navigation platform to customers in a number of ways. We distribute our services through our wireless carrier partners, including AT&T Mobility LLC, or AT&T, and directly to consumers through mobile application stores and marketplaces. Generally, we provide our basic services to consumers for free and provide consumers the opportunity to purchase premium versions of the product. We refer to the free to premium distribution as the freemium model of distribution. Our free products are designed to be monetized through delivery of advertising to consumers. Our success with the freemium model depends upon our ability to generate a substantial active user base as well as the ability to generate revenue from advertising and conversion of users from free to premium services. We offer our map and navigation platform services to auto manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, for distribution with their vehicles. Our primary customer to date, Ford Motor Company, or Ford, currently distributes our product as an optional feature with the majority of its models in the U.S. Our product is now included in models manufactured in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Europe and China, as well as offered in models in South America, Australia and New Zealand. We also have a relationship with an automotive OEM, Delphi Automotive Systems LLC, or Delphi, that distributes our products with another major global auto manufacturer and a major China auto manufacturer. In January 2014 we announced an agreement with a top five global auto manufacturer for integration of our embedded and connected solutions in its vehicles, which we expect to commence in model year 2017. More recently, we have expanded our relationship with this manufacturer to include off-board and cloud based services for vehicles, commencing in model year 2016. Under the terms of the agreement, we expect our connected services to support navigation in more than 100 countries. There are no volume or revenue guarantees provided by this auto manufacturer. Our automotive solutions are typically a self-contained solution including software and related services and content within the car, or embedded, and are often enhanced through connection to data services for additional real time capabilities such as maps, points of interest, or POI, and traffic. Our history as a cloud based supplier of navigation services provides a unique advantage in the marketplace over our competitors. Our advertising delivery platform offers advertisers significant audience reach, sophisticated targeting capabilities and the ability to deliver interactive and engaging ad experiences to consumers on their mobile devices. We are experts in location-based advertising and offer unique value to brick-and-mortar and brand advertisers through our location targeting capabilities. Our technology focuses on managing the complexity and scale associated with mobile location data to deliver better mobile campaigns for our advertising partners. We deliver mobile advertisements by leveraging our proprietary in-house ad serving technology. Our inventory, or accessible market, is comprised of thousands of mobile applications and mobile websites that are accessed through programmatic real-time bidding, or RTB, tools. In September 2014, our platform had access to over 151 billion potential ad impressions. We derive revenue primarily from wireless carriers, automobile manufacturers and OEMs, and advertisers and advertising agencies. We primarily derive our revenue from automobile manufacturers whose vehicles contain our proprietary software and are able to access our personalized navigation services. We also derive revenue from our partnerships with wireless carriers who sell our mobile navigation services to their subscribers. In addition, we have a growing business in mobile advertising where our customers are primarily advertising agencies that represent national and regional brands and channel partners that work closely with local and small business advertisers. We generate revenue from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in automotive navigation applications. For example, Ford utilizes our on-board automotive navigation product in its Ford SYNC platform, which includes MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch. Our navigation solution is currently deployed in 19 Table of Contents 20 different Ford and Lincoln models in North America. Ford and Lincoln models with our on-board automotive navigation product began shipping to South America with the 2012 model year, China with the 2013 model year and Australia and New Zealand with the 2014 model year. We began shipments to Ford for the launch of our solution in Europe in September 2014, for the 2015 model year. Our automobile manufacturer and OEM customers pay us a royalty fee as the software is reproduced for installation in vehicles with our automotive navigation solutions. We generate revenue from mobile navigation services, based upon our map and navigation platform, through service subscriptions. End users with subscriptions for our services are generally billed for our services through their wireless carrier or through mobile application stores and marketplaces. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user, (2) a monthly or annual subscription fee per end user, or (3) based on usage. We generate revenue from advertising network services through the delivery of search and display advertising impressions based on the specific terms of the advertising contract, which can include arrangements based on cost per impression, cost per click, or cost per drive. Recent Developments Commencing on July 1, 2014, we began to report results in three business segments: Automotive - Our Automotive segment provides our map and navigation platform to auto manufacturers and OEMs, for distribution with their vehicles. Our automotive solutions are typically a self-contained solution including software and related services and content within the car, or on-board, and are often enhanced through connection to data services for additional real time capabilities such as traffic. Advertising - Our Advertising segment provides interactive mobile advertisements on behalf of our advertising clients to consumers based specifically on the location of the user and other sophisticated targeting capabilities. Our customers include advertising agencies, direct advertisers and channel partners. Mobile Navigation - Our Mobile Navigation segment provides our map and navigation platform to end users. We distribute our services through our wireless carrier partners, and directly to consumers through mobile application stores and marketplaces. Our CEO, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments. Key operating and financial performance metrics We monitor the key operating and financial performance metrics set forth in the tables below to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess our operational efficiencies. Certain of these measures, non-GAAP net income (loss), adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or adjusted EBITDA, and diluted non-GAAP net income (loss), per share are not measures calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to any measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because other companies may not calculate them in the same manner that we do (in thousands, except percentages and per share amounts): 20 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 2013 Revenue $ 34,987 $ 44,296 Gross margin 54 % 64 % Non-GAAP gross margin 57 % 66 % Automotive gross margin 47 % 53 % Automotive non-GAAP gross margin 48 % 53 % Advertising gross margin 36 % 40 % Advertising non-GAAP gross margin 47 % 60 % Mobile navigation gross margin 74 % 75 % Mobile navigation non-GAAP gross margin 76 % 78 % Net income (loss) $ (7,937 ) $ 9 Non-GAAP net income (loss) $ (3,872 ) $ 3,183 Adjusted EBITDA $ (5,515 ) $ 4,492 Diluted net income (loss), per share $ (0.20 ) $ Diluted non-GAAP net income (loss), per share $ (0.10 ) $ 0.08 Gross margin is our gross profit, or total revenue less cost of revenue, expressed as a percentage of our total revenue. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be impacted by the increasing percentage of our revenue base derived from automotive navigation solutions and advertising network services, which generally have higher associated third party content costs and third party display ad inventory costs, respectively, than our mobile navigation offerings provided through wireless carriers. Non-GAAP gross margin measures our GAAP gross margin, excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense and capitalized software and developed technology amortization expenses. Non-GAAP net income (loss) measures GAAP net income (loss), excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, capitalized software and developed technology amortization expenses, and other items such as legal settlements and restructuring costs, net of taxes. Stock-based compensation expense relates to equity incentive awards granted to our employees, directors, and consultants. Stock-based compensation expense has been and will continue to be a significant recurring non-cash expense for us. While we include the dilutive impact of such equity awards in weighted average shares outstanding, the expense associated with stock-based awards reflects a non-cash charge that we exclude from non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) per share, and adjusted EBITDA. Capitalized software amortization expense represents internal software costs that are previously capitalized and charged to expense as the software is used in our operations. Developed technology amortization expense relates to the amortization of acquired intangible assets. Legal settlements represent settlements from patent litigation cases in which we are defendants and royalty disputes. Restructuring costs represent recognition of the estimated amount of costs associated with restructuring activities. Our non-GAAP tax rate differs from the GAAP tax rate due to the elimination of any tax effect of the GAAP stock-based compensation expenses, capitalized software and developed technology amortization expenses, legal settlements, restructuring costs, and other items that are being eliminated to arrive at the non-GAAP net income (loss). Adjusted EBITDA measures our GAAP income (loss) excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, depreciation, amortization, interest income, other income (expense), provision (benefit) for income taxes, and other items such as legal settlements and restructuring costs, net of tax. Adjusted EBITDA, while generally a measure of profitability, can also represent a loss and this metric excludes certain non-cash expenses, interest and other income (expense), income taxes, and certain other items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. Non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP net income (loss) and adjusted EBITDA are key measures used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operational plans. In particular, we believe that the exclusion of the expenses eliminated in calculating non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP net income (loss) and adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. In addition, non-GAAP net income (loss) and adjusted EBITDA are key financial measures used by the compensation committee of our board of directors in connection with the development of incentive-based compensation for our executive officers. Accordingly, we believe that non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, and adjusted EBITDA provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. 21 Table of Contents Diluted non-GAAP net income (loss) per share is calculated as non-GAAP net income (loss) divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. These non-GAAP measures have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditures; non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP net income (loss) and adjusted EBITDA do not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect tax payments that historically have represented a reduction in cash available to us or tax benefits that may arise as a result of generating net losses; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP net income (loss), adjusted EBITDA and diluted non-GAAP net income (loss) per share alongside other GAAP-based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income (loss) and our other GAAP financial results. The following tables present reconciliations of gross margin to non-GAAP gross margin, net income (loss) to non-GAAP net income (loss) and net income (loss) to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Automotive Advertising Mobile Navigation Total Three Months Ended September 30, Three Months Ended September 30, Three Months Ended September 30, Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Gross margin 47 % 53 % 36 % 40 % 74 % 75 % 54 % 64 % Adjustments: Capitalized software and developed technology amortization 1 % % 11 % 20 % 2 % 3 % 3 % 2 % Stock-based compensation expense % % % % % % % % Non-GAAP gross margin 48 % 53 % 47 % 60 % 76 % 78 % 57 % 66 % Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 2013 Net income (loss) $ (7,937 ) $ 9 Adjustments: Restructuring costs 548 Capitalized software and developed technology amortization 903 900 Stock-based compensation expense: Cost of revenue $ 24 $ 36 Research and development 1,500 1,009 Sales and marketing 764 697 General and administrative 1,100 741 Total stock-based compensation 3,388 2,483 Tax effect of adding back adjustments (226 ) (757 ) Non-GAAP net income (loss) $ (3,872 ) $ 3,183 22 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 2013 Net income (loss) $ (7,937 ) $ 9 Adjustments: Restructuring costs 548 Stock-based compensation expense 3,388 2,483 Depreciation and amortization 1,477 1,794 Interest and other income, net (1,303 ) (282 ) Benefit for income taxes (1,140 ) (60 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ (5,515 ) $ 4,492 Key components of our results of operations Sources of revenue We classify our revenue as either product or services revenue. Services revenue consists primarily of revenue we derive from our mobile navigation services, off-board automotive navigation services and mobile advertising services. Product revenue consists primarily of revenue we receive from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications. We offer voice-guided, real-time, turn by turn, mobile navigation service under several brand names including Scout by Telenav and Telenav GPS as well as under wireless carrier brands (or white label brands). We derive services revenue primarily from our wireless carrier customers for their end users' subscriptions to our mobile navigation services. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user, (2) a monthly or annual subscription fee per end user, or (3) based on usage. Certain of our contracts provide our wireless carrier customers with discounts based on the number of end users paying for our services in a given month. In general, our wireless carrier customers pay us a lower monthly fee per end user if an end user subscribes to our mobile navigation services as part of a bundle of mobile data or voice services than if an end user subscribes to our mobile navigation services on a standalone basis. We also offer our applications directly to end users through application stores such as the Apple App Store and the Google Play marketplace. Finally, we provide free versions of our services which can generate revenue through advertising supported arrangements, and subscriber upgrades to premium versions for a fee. We also derive services revenue from advertising network services through the delivery of search and display advertising impressions based on the specific terms of the advertising contract. In the future, we may have other revenue models. For services that our subscribers purchase through our wireless carriers, our wireless carrier customers are responsible for billing and collecting the fees they charge their subscribers for the right to use our navigation services. With respect to Sprint Nextel Corporation, or Sprint, through September 30, 2013, we received a guaranteed fixed fee from Sprint for navigation applications provided to subscribers in bundles with other Sprint services. We recognized revenue for the aggregate fees monthly on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement. When we are paid on a revenue sharing basis with our wireless carrier customers, the amount we receive varies depending on several factors, including the revenue share rate negotiated with the wireless carrier customer, the price charged to the subscriber by the wireless carrier customer, the specific sales channel of the wireless carrier customer in which the service is offered and the features and capability of the service. As a result of these factors, the amount we receive for a subscriber may vary considerably and is subject to change over time. In addition, the amount we are paid per end user in our revenue sharing arrangements may also vary depending upon the metric used to determine the amount of the payment, including the number of end users at any time during a month, the average monthly paying end users, the number and timing of end user billing cycles and end user activity. Although our wireless carrier customers generally have sole discretion about how to price our mobile navigation services to their subscribers, our revenue sharing arrangements generally include monthly minimum fees per end user. To a much lesser extent, we also sell our services directly to consumers through application stores. We report operating results in three business segments: Automotive, Advertising and Mobile Navigation. Our CEO, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments. See " - Results of Operations" and Note 12 to the financial statements in this Form 10-Q for more information about our business segments. 23 Table of Contents Revenue from our Automotive segment represented 56% and 45% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Ford represented 53% and 40% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In April 2014, our contract with Ford was extended through December 2017. The agreement may be renewed for successive 12-month periods if either party provides notice of renewal at least 45 days prior to the expiration of the applicable term and the other party agrees to such renewal. We provide both on-board and off-board connected navigation solutions to Ford. Our on-board solution consists of software, map and points of interest, or POI, data loaded in the vehicle that provides voice-guided turn by turn navigation displayed on the vehicle screen. Our off-board connected solution enables a mobile device that is paired with the vehicle to activate in-vehicle text-based and voice-guided turn by turn navigation. We recognize revenue from our off-board connected solutions monthly based on annual subscriptions, which are subject to a maximum annual fee with Ford. This revenue is classified as services revenue and represented less than 5% of overall automotive navigation solutions revenue. Our product revenue is primarily derived from our automotive on-board solutions as the related customized software is delivered to, and accepted by our customers. In addition, we recognize royalties earned from our on-board solutions as the software is reproduced for installation in vehicles. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on Ford for a material portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future . Revenue from our Advertising segment, which includes the delivery of search and display, location-based ads, represented 11% and 5% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our advertising revenue is derived from ad insertion orders contracted with advertising agencies, direct customers, and channel partners. Our ad search revenue is earned from the delivery of location-based ad impressions targeted to end users engaged in a specific search task utilizing our mobile navigation solutions. Such ad search revenue represented less than 10% of our overall advertising revenue. Our display revenue relates to the advertising business developed via the Thinknear acquisition that delivers targeted location-based impressions to end users of third party developer applications. Revenue from our Mobile Navigation segment represented 33% and 50% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Subscription fee revenue from our mobile navigation service declined from the three months ended September 30, 2013 to 2014, primarily due to the transition to an extension of the fixed fee with Sprint at a lower rate that eventually ceased in September 2013 and a substantial decrease in the number of paying subscribers for navigation services provided through AT&T and others, including T-Mobile USA, or T-Mobile, U.S. Cellular Corporation, or USCC, and Comunicaciones Nextel de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., a subsidiary of NII Holdings, Inc., or NII Mexico. AT&T represented 20% and 23% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In March 2014, our agreement with AT&T was automatically renewed, under its existing terms through March 2015, and provides that we will continue to be the exclusive provider of white label GPS navigation services to AT&T. AT&T is not required to offer our navigation services. During fiscal 2015, we anticipate that we will continue to depend on AT&T for a material portion of our revenue; however, we have seen substantial declines in the number of paying subscribers for our services through AT&T over the past few years and we expect them to continue to decline substantially . Sprint represented less than 10% and 15% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We operate under an agreement with Sprint, which we most recently amended in April 2013. Under this amended agreement, Sprint continued the fixed fee arrangement related to the Sprint bundle through September 30, 2013, and agreed to partner to generate revenue from mobile navigation and mobile advertising programs through December 31, 2015. Commencing on October 1, 2013, Sprint ceased to bundle our navigation services, which caused our revenue to decrease substantially. A majority of the Sprint subscribers who were receiving our services through bundles as of September 30, 2013 did not convert to our paid navigation services and we have not recouped the lost revenue through freemium or monthly recurring charges paid by those Sprint subscribers. We expect that the percentage of our revenue represented by wireless carrier customers will continue to decline in fiscal 2015 due to the absence of any revenue from Sprint bundles and the anticipated decline of the number of subscribers paying monthly recurring charges with other wireless carrier customers. For fiscal 2015, we expect automotive and advertising revenue to represent the growing components of our revenue but our expectations may not be realized. However, while we anticipate growing our overall revenue in fiscal 2015, the lower gross margins generally experienced with automotive and advertising revenue are expected to result in an overall lower gross profit in fiscal 2015. 24 Table of Contents In each of the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, we generated 94% of our revenue, in the United States. With respect to revenue we receive from automobile manufacturers and OEMs for sales of vehicles in other countries, we classify that revenue as being generated in the United States, because we provide deliverables to and receive compensation from the manufacturer's or OEM's United States' entity. Cost of revenue Our cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of third party content, such as map, geocodes, POI, traffic, gas price and weather data and voice recognition technology that we use in providing our navigation solutions. Our cost of revenue also includes the cost of third party exchange ad inventory as well as expenses associated with data center operations, customer support, the amortization of capitalized software, recognition of deferred development costs on specific projects, stock-based compensation and amortization of developed technology. The largest components of our cost of revenue are the fees we pay to providers of map, POI and traffic data, including TomTom North America, Inc., or TomTom, and HERE North America, LLC, or HERE. We have agreements with TomTom and HERE pursuant to which we pay royalties according to a variety of different fee schedules, including on a per use basis, on a per end user per month basis, and on a per installed vehicle basis. With respect to TomTom, we are required to pay certain minimum fees for access to its content by our mobile navigation customers, as well as a usage fee. Although we recently began using OSM for certain of our freemium navigation products, we do not anticipate that we will cease to use TomTom and HERE in the near-term on our paid navigation solutions. For our on-board automotive navigation solutions provided to Ford, we pay royalties on a per installed unit produced basis to HERE as well as other content providers, depending on the geographic distribution of our solution with Ford. We classify our cost of revenue as either cost of product revenue or cost of services revenue. Cost of product revenue consists primarily of the cost of third party content we incur in providing our on-board automotive navigation solutions and recognition of deferred development costs. Cost of services revenue consists primarily of the costs associated with third party content, third party exchange ad inventory, data center operations, customer support, amortization of capitalized software, stock-based compensation and amortization of developed technology that we incur in providing our navigation and advertising network services. We primarily provide mobile navigation service customer support through a third party provider to whom we provide training and assistance with problem resolution. We use two outsourced, hosted data centers and industry standard hardware to provide our navigation services. We generally offer to our wireless carrier customers and generally maintain at least 99.9% uptime every month, excluding designated periods of maintenance. Our internal targets for service uptime are even higher. We have in the past, and may in the future, not achieve our targets for service availability and may incur penalties for failure to meet contractual service availability requirements, including loss of a portion of subscriber fees for the month or termination of our wireless carrier customer agreement. The largest component of cost of revenue as it relates to our advertising business is the cost of location-based, third-party advertising inventory which we acquire from advertising exchanges. Our search ad inventory is generated from our user base of paid and freemium users of our Scout and Telenav branded and carrier branded mobile navigation solutions. Other notable costs of our advertising business are the cost of ad delivery via contracted hosted relationships and the cost of our ad trafficking operations. While we expect that services revenue from wireless carrier customers will continue to decline substantially in fiscal 2015, we do not expect to be able to reduce our cost of services revenue at the same rate of decline as services revenue. Although we successfully transitioned to utilizing OSM content on our freemium navigation applications resulting in notable cost savings, we will continue to incur significant costs, especially related to third party content as well as for data center operations. Cost of services revenue related to our advertising business will be impacted by our ability to grow advertising revenue, as well as the cost and availability of display ad inventory sourced from third party exchanges. While our product revenue is expected to increase in fiscal 2015 due to continued growth in automotive, much of this growth will be generated from distribution of our automotive solution with Ford in China and Europe where the underlying content costs are significantly higher on a per unit basis. Consequently, we expect that our overall total cost of revenue will increase as a percentage of revenue as we increase the percentage of our revenue from automotive navigation solutions and advertising network services, which generally have higher associated third party content costs and third party display ad costs, respectively, than our navigation offerings provided through wireless carriers. 25 Table of Contents Operating expenses We classify our operating expenses into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. In addition, in fiscal 2014 we incurred restructuring costs primarily related to severance and benefits expense associated with reductions in workforce and facility exit costs associated with consolidation of facilities. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, which include salaries, bonuses, advertising sales commissions, payroll taxes, employee benefit costs and stock-based compensation expense. Other expenses include marketing program costs, third party contractor and temporary staffing services, facilities-related costs including rent expense, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional service fees. We allocate stock-based compensation expense resulting from the amortization of the fair value of stock-based awards granted, based on the department in which the award holder works. We allocate overhead, such as rent and depreciation, to each expense category based on headcount. Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we are classifying product management costs as a component of research and development expenses due to the change made effective July 1, 2014 whereby this function no longer reports into the sales and marketing organization. Previously such costs had been included within sales and marketing expenses. Our operating expenses have declined in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, as we have reduced certain headcount and achieved greater operational effectiveness in supporting our traditional mobile navigation services. Despite our recent restructuring efforts, we expect that certain costs will continue to increase over time, including compensation and related costs; however, we are continuing to evaluate spending in certain areas and to take actions to create greater efficiencies. We anticipate continued investment of resources, including the hiring of additional headcount in, or reallocation of employee personnel into, our growth areas, which include automotive and mobile advertising, with a recent emphasis on hiring advertising sales personnel and related support functions. Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we are classifying product management costs as a component of research and development expenses. Research and development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our development and product management employees and costs of outside consultants and temporary staffing. We have focused our research and development efforts on improving the ease of use and functionality of our existing services, as well as developing new service and product offerings in our existing markets and in new markets. In addition to our U.S. employee base, a significant number of our research and development employees are located in our development centers in China and, as a result, a portion of our research and development expense is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates, notably the Chinese Renminbi, or RMB. In addition, with our January 2014 acquisition of skobbler, we have a significant number of employees in Romania and incur research and development expenses in the Romanian Leu. Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our sales and marketing staff, commissions earned by our sales personnel and the cost of marketing programs, advertising and promotional activities. Through June 30, 2014, sales and marketing expenses also included product management costs, which are classified as research and development expenses commencing July 1, 2014. Historically, a majority of our revenue has been derived from wireless carriers, which bore much of the expense of marketing and promoting our services to their subscribers, as well as consumers acquired through open market application stores. More recently, our automotive and advertising revenue have represented the most rapidly growing components of our revenue, and we have recently invested significantly in building out our advertising sales team. Our sales and marketing activities supporting our automotive navigation services include the costs of our business development efforts. Our automotive manufacturer partners and OEMs also provide primary marketing for our on-board and off-board navigation services at the time a vehicle is sold to their end customer. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional services and corporate expenses. Other income (expense), net . Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest we earn on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, gain or loss on investments and foreign currency transaction gain or loss. Provision (benefit) for income taxes . Our provision (benefit) for income taxes primarily consists of corporate income taxes related to profits or losses earned in the United States or corporate income tax refunds expected to be derived from losses incurred in the United States that may be carried back. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from year to year, particularly in those years in which we incur losses, due to our ability to benefit from the carryback of net operating losses within the carryback period and the available amount therein, if any. Furthermore, on a quarterly basis our tax rates can fluctuate and could be adversely affected by increases in nondeductible stock compensation or other nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to a change in our earnings or loss projections, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. 26 Table of Contents Critical accounting policies and estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require our judgment in its application. In other cases, our judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting policies that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. In many instances, we could reasonably use different accounting estimates, and in some instances changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2014. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Results of operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , as well as a percentage that each line item represents of our total revenue for those periods. The additional key metrics presented are used in addition to the financial measures reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of operations data to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. The period to period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of financial results to be achieved in future periods. 27 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, Consolidated Statements of Operations Data 2014 2013 (in thousands) Revenue: Product $ 18,916 $ 19,291 Services 16,071 25,005 Total revenue 34,987 44,296 Cost of revenue: Product 10,178 9,309 Services 5,782 6,740 Total cost of revenue 15,960 16,049 Gross profit 19,027 28,247 Operating expenses: Research and development 16,998 14,543 Sales and marketing 6,196 7,618 General and administrative 6,213 5,871 Restructuring costs 548 Total operating expenses 29,407 28,580 Loss from operations (10,380 ) (333 ) Other income, net 1,303 282 Loss before benefit for income taxes (9,077 ) (51 ) Benefit for income taxes (1,140 ) (60 ) Net income (loss) $ (7,937 ) $ 9 Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 2013 Revenue: (as a percentage of revenue) Product 54 % 44 % Services 46 % 56 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue: Product 29 % 21 % Services 17 % 15 % Total cost of revenue 46 % 36 % Gross profit 54 % 64 % Operating expenses: Research and development 49 % 33 % Sales and marketing 18 % 17 % General and administrative 18 % 13 % Restructuring costs % 1 % Total operating expenses 85 % 64 % Loss from operations (30 )% (1 )% Other income, net 4 % 1 % Loss before benefit for income taxes (26 )% % Benefit for income taxes (3 )% % Net income (loss) (23 )% % 28 Table of Contents Comparison of the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 Revenue, cost of revenue and gross profit . Consolidated overview. Product revenue decreased 2% to $18.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $19.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The decrease in product revenue for the comparable three month period was due primarily to decreases in customized software revenue and map content update revenue, partially offset by an increase in royalty revenue from automotive navigation solutions we provide for our automotive customers. Services revenue decreased 36% to $16.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $25.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The decrease in services revenue for the comparable three month period was due primarily to lower subscription fees resulting from decreases in the number of paying subscribers for mobile navigation services. Our cost of product revenue increased 9% to $10.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $9.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 , due primarily to an increase in third party content costs associated with the increased royalty revenue from automotive navigation solutions. Our cost of service revenue decreased 14% to $5.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $6.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 , due primarily to a decrease in third party content costs resulting from lower usage and, to a lesser extent, the adoption of OSM content, as well as decreased customer support and data center costs, partially offset by increased amortization expense primarily related to developed technology acquired. Our gross profit decreased to $19.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $28.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Our gross margin decreased to 54% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from 64% in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The decreases in gross profit and gross margin for the comparable three month period were primarily due to lower services revenue and the increased proportion of product revenue contributed from our on-board automotive navigation solutions provided to our automotive customers, which generally has higher associated content costs and resulting lower gross margins than our mobile navigation services provided through our wireless carrier customers. We expect our overall gross margin to continue to decline as the percentage of our revenue from automotive offerings increases, and as a result of increased competition on our offering of mobile navigation services, especially from other freemium offerings. In addition, our gross margin will continue to be negatively impacted in the future by the amortization of developed technology acquired as part of our January 2014 acquisition of skobbler. Revenue concentrations . In the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , revenue from Ford represented 53% and 40% of our total revenue, respectively; revenue from AT&T represented 20% and 23% of our total revenue, respectively, and revenue from Sprint represented less than 10% and 15% of our total revenue, respectively. No other customer represented more than 10% of our total revenue in such periods. We primarily sell our services in the United States. In each of the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , revenue derived from U.S. sources represented 94% of our total revenue. 29 Table of Contents Segments information. The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable business segments (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 2013 Revenue Automotive $ 19,502 $ 19,890 Advertising 3,975 2,080 Mobile Navigation 11,510 22,326 Total revenue 34,987 44,296 Cost of revenue Automotive 10,396 9,309 Advertising 2,540 1,253 Mobile Navigation 3,024 5,487 Total cost of revenue 15,960 16,049 Gross profit Automotive 9,106 10,581 Advertising 1,435 827 Mobile Navigation 8,486 16,839 Total gross profit $ 19,027 $ 28,247 Gross margin Automotive 47 % 53 % Advertising 36 % 40 % Mobile Navigation 74 % 75 % Total gross margin 54 % 64 % Automotive. Automotive revenue decreased 2% to $19.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $19.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to a decrease in customized software revenue and map content update revenue of $2.1 million, partially offset by an increase in production royalty revenue of $1.7 million. Automotive revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 included zero and $2.1 million, respectively, of customized software revenue. Automotive revenue represented 56% and 45% of total revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Cost of automotive revenue increased 12% to $10.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $9.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to an increase in third party content costs of $1.1 million associated with the increased royalty revenue and mix of revenue in Europe and China, which generally has higher associated content costs, and increased amortization expense of $0.2 million related to developed technology acquired. These increases were partially offset by a decrease due to the costs associated with the fiscal 2014 customized software revenue and map content update revenue that did not recur in fiscal 2015. Automotive gross profit decreased to $9.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $10.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Automotive gross margin decreased to 47% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from 53% in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The decrease in gross margin in the comparable three month period was due primarily to the higher margin customized software revenue and map content update revenue included in fiscal 2014 that did not recur in fiscal 2015, as well as the higher proportion of revenue in Europe and China, which generally has higher associated content costs. Advertising . Advertising revenue increased 91% to $4.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $2.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 , due primarily to an increase in the value of contracted insertion orders along with the number of impressions delivered. Advertising revenue represented 11% and 5% of total revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 30 Table of Contents Cost of advertising revenue increased 103% to $2.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $1.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to increased third party ad exchange inventory costs of $0.9 million and increased platform hosting fees of $0.2 million associated with the increased impressions delivered. Cost of advertising revenue increased at a greater rate than advertising revenue due to increased effective cost per thousand impressions, or eCPM, for display ad inventory sourced from third party exchanges, as well as enhanced content costs. Advertising gross profit increased 74% to $1.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $0.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Advertising gross margin decreased to 36% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from 40% in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The decrease in gross margin in the comparable three month period was due primarily to increased eCPM for display ad inventory sourced from third party exchanges, as well as enhanced content costs. Mobile Navigation . Mobile navigation revenue decreased 48% to $11.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $22.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was primarily due to lower subscription fees resulting from decreases in the number of paying subscribers for mobile navigation services provided through AT&T, T-Mobile and USCC, the termination of our fixed fee revenue from Sprint for bundled users, and a decrease in mobile navigation revenue internationally. Accordingly, in the three months ended September 30, 2014 , services revenue from AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile, USCC and international customers decreased by $10.5 million . Mobile navigation revenue represented 33% and 50% of total revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Cost of mobile navigation revenue decreased 45% to $3.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $5.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was due primarily to a decrease in third party content costs of $1.4 million, as well as a decrease in amortization of capitalized software and recognition of deferred costs and data center costs of $0.4 million. Mobile navigation gross profit decreased 50% to $8.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $16.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Mobile navigation gross margin was comparable at 74% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 75% in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Operating expenses Research and development . Our research and development expenses increased 17% to $17.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $14.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in the comparable three month period was due primarily to the inclusion of $2.4 million of product management department costs that are classified in research and development expense beginning in fiscal 2015. Previously, product management departments reported into our sales and marketing organization and were included in sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2014. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses increased to 49% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from 33% in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The total number of research and development personnel increased 3% to 461 at September 30, 2014 from 446 at September 30, 2013 . A total of 40 product management personnel were included in research and development expense at September 30, 2014. The increase in headcount is due primarily to increased headcount with our acquisition of skobbler in January 2014 and the inclusion of product management personnel in fiscal 2015, partially offset by a decrease due to our ongoing cost optimization efforts, including our restructuring efforts in the second half of fiscal 2014. We believe that as we deliver our contracted customer requirements for our automotive customers, establish relationships with new automotive manufacturers and OEMs, enhance our service offerings around our OSM capabilities, and develop new services and products for advertisers, revenue from those investments and development efforts will lag the related research and development expenses. Sales and marketing . Our sales and marketing expenses decreased 19% to $6.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $7.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The decrease in the comparable three month period was primarily due to a decrease of $2.6 million related to product management costs that were classified in sales and marketing expense in fiscal 2014. Beginning in fiscal 2015, these costs are now included in research and development expense. This $2.6 million decrease was partially offset by increases in compensation and benefits costs of $1.1 million primarily associated with the ongoing expansion of our mobile advertising sales team. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses increased to 18% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from 17% in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The total number of sales and marketing personnel decreased 22% to 69 at September 30, 2014 from 89 at September 30, 2013 . A total of 39 product management personnel were included in sales and marketing expense at September 30, 2013. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase over time in absolute dollars as we add sales personnel to support our advertising business. 31 Table of Contents General and administrative . Our general and administrative expenses increased 6% to $6.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from $5.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in the comparable three month period was primarily due to increased stock-based compensation expense of $0.4 million. The total number of general and administrative personnel decreased 11% to 65 at September 30, 2014 from 73 at September 30, 2013 . As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses increased to 18% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 from 13% in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . We anticipate that our general and administrative expenses may vary substantially from period to period as our legal expenses associated with ongoing intellectual property litigation and requests for indemnification related to intellectual property litigation proceed. Restructuring costs . In the three months ended September 30, 2013, we incurred restructuring costs of $0.5 million associated with facility lease impairment in connection with the consolidation of our Sunnyvale headquarters facilities. Other income, net . Our other income, net was $1.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 and $0.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Other income, net for the three months ended September 30, 2014 included a $0.5 million foreign exchange gain and $0.4 million other income from our transaction services agreement with Fleetcor Technologies Operating Company, LLC. Benefit for income taxes . Our benefit for income taxes was $1.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 compared to $60,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Our effective tax rate was 13% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 compared to 118% in the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Our effective tax rate of 13% , which resulted in the recognition of a tax benefit for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , was less than the tax benefit computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to the increase in the valuation allowance as a result of the limitations of benefit from the tax carryback. Our effective tax rate of 118% for the three months ended September 30, 2013 was higher than the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to the exclusion of certain foreign income which was offset by loss carryforwards in a foreign jurisdiction. We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in accordance with authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. As of September 30, 2014 and June 30, 2014, our cumulative unrecognized tax benefits were $6.6 million and $6.9 million , respectively. Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at September 30, 2014 and June 30, 2014 was $5.1 million and $5.5 million , respectively, that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our provision for income taxes. We had $0.7 million and $0.6 million accrued for the payment of interest and penalties at September 30, 2014 and June 30, 2014, respectively. We file income tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, California, various states and foreign tax jurisdictions in which we have subsidiaries. The statute of limitations remains open for fiscal 2011 through fiscal 2014 in the U.S., for fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2014 in state jurisdictions, and for fiscal 2009 through fiscal 2014 in foreign jurisdictions. Fiscal years outside the normal statute of limitations remain open to audit by tax authorities due to tax attributes generated in those early years which have been carried forward and may be audited in subsequent years when utilized. In fiscal 2014, we recorded a valuation allowance on the majority of our deferred tax assets, net of liabilities, since the assets were not more likely than not to be realized based upon our assessment of all positive and negative evidence. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable earnings and losses, the timing of which is uncertain. Due to losses in fiscal 2014 and expected losses in fiscal 2015 and potentially future years in the U.S., we established in fiscal 2014 a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets in the U.S. that we believe will not be realized by the carryback provisions of U.S. tax law. U.S. tax law allows for the two-year carryback of losses and one-year carryback of credits to previous tax years which can generate a tax refund to the extent taxes were paid. Due to foreign operating losses in previous years and continued foreign earnings volatility, we continued to maintain a full valuation allowance for our foreign deferred tax assets. Our valuation allowance at June 30, 2014 was $13.0 million . In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets each quarter, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including current and previous operating results, ability to carryback losses for a tax refund, and forecasts of future operating results. On December 31, 2013, the research and development credit expired for federal tax purposes. The 2012 Taxpayer Relief Act extended the research and development credit for two years until December 31, 2013. Although the research and development credit has been extended every year since enactment, a tax benefit cannot be recorded for the expired period until the tax extenders bill, or the bill, has been enacted. If and when the bill is enacted, a retroactive tax benefit will be recorded in the period of enactment. We have recorded a tax benefit for the federal research and development credit for the six months ended December 31, 2013. 32 Table of Contents On September 13, 2013, the U.S. Treasury issued final tangible property regulations which broadly apply to amounts paid to acquire, produce or improve tangible property, as well as dispositions of such property. On August 18, 2014, the U.S. Treasury issued final tangible property regulations for dispositions of property subject to depreciation under Section 168 and general asset accounts and finalizes the asset disposition rules. The new tangible property regulations are effective for years beginning after January 1, 2014, or our fiscal 2015. Since we expect to elect the de minimus safe harbor election which provides symmetry between book and tax for the capitalization of tangible assets, these new regulations will not have a material impact on our financial statements. Liquidity and capital resources The following table sets forth the major sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents for each of the periods set forth below (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 2013 Net cash used in operating activities $ (3,953 ) $ (5,909 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 9,412 (1,016 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 675 (3,039 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (645 ) 51 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 5,489 $ (9,913 ) At September 30, 2014 , we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $131.6 million , which primarily consisted of money market mutual funds, asset-backed securities, municipal securities and agency and corporate bonds held. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held and managed by financial institutions that are required to adhere to our investment policy. Our accounts receivable are heavily concentrated in a small number of customers. As of September 30, 2014 , our accounts receivable balance was $26.9 million , of which Ford and AT&T represented 51% and 17% , respectively. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to grow our revenue and control expenses in fiscal 2015 and beyond, whether we return to profitability, the timing and extent of expenditures to support development efforts, the expansion of research and development and sales and marketing activities and headcount, the introduction of our new and enhanced service and product offerings and the growth in our end user base. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to satisfy our financial obligations through at least the next 12 months. However, we expect to use cash in operating activities in fiscal 2015 and we may experience greater than expected cash usage in operating activities if revenue is lower than we anticipate or we incur greater than expected cost of revenue or operating expenses. Our revenue and operating results could be lower than we anticipate if, among other reasons, our customers, two of which we are substantially dependent upon for a large portion of our revenue, were to limit or terminate our relationships with them; we were to fail to successfully compete in our highly competitive market, including against competitors who offer their services for free; our revenue did not grow as expected or we were unable to reduce our costs by using OSM. In the future, we may acquire businesses or technologies or license technologies from third parties, and we may decide to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing to the extent we believe this is necessary to successfully complete these acquisitions or license these technologies. However, additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we make such determinations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity and cash position. Net cash used in operating activities . Net cash used in operating activities was $ 4.0 million and $ 5.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Cash provided by or used in operating activities is affected by changes in our declining mobile navigation end user base, anticipated growth in our auto and advertising businesses, and increases in our operating costs, which are primarily driven by headcount related costs and royalty payments for portions of the content provided in our products. In the three months ended September 30, 2014 , cash used in operating activities was the result of a net loss of $7.9 million and $ 1.4 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization of $ 1.5 million , stock-based compensation of $ 3.4 million and accretion of net premium on short-term investments of $ 0.5 million . In the three months ended September 30, 2013 , cash provided by operating activities was provided principally by net income of $ 9,000 , adjusted for non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization of $ 1.8 million , stock-based compensation of $ 2.5 million , and accretion of net premium on short-term investments of $0.9 million, partially offset by $ 11.3 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. 33 Table of Contents Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities . Our investing activities provided (used) $ 9.4 million and $ (1.0) million during the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Cash flows from investing activities have historically been affected by purchases, sales and maturities of short-term investments, purchases of property and equipment, internal software development costs, and acquisitions. We expect to make additional purchases of property and equipment in future periods as we continue to invest in infrastructure, as well as replace equipment nearing the end of its service life. However, we will balance such purchases with our increasing use of hosted data services in an effort to more efficiently scale operations, particularly with respect to our growing advertising business. In the three months ended September 30, 2014 , cash provided by investing activities was principally the result of proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $9.8 million . In the three months ended September 30, 2013 , cash used in investing activities was principally the result of purchases of short-term investments, net of proceeds from sales and maturities, of $0.6 million , and purchases of property and equipment of $ 0.3 million . Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities . During the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , our financing activities provided (used) cash of $ 0.7 million and $ (3.0) million , respectively. In the three months ended September 30, 2014 , proceeds of $1.4 million were provided from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.7 million of tax withholdings related to net share settlements of RSUs. In the three months ended September 30, 2013 , we utilized $ 3.1 million of cash to repurchase shares of our common stock, partially offset by proceeds of $0.4 million from the exercise of stock options. Off-balance sheet arrangements We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies As of September 30, 2014 , we had an aggregate of $32.4 million of future minimum noncancelable financial commitments primarily related to office space under noncancelable operating leases and license fees due to certain of our third party content providers, regardless of usage level. The aggregate of $32.4 million of future minimum commitments were comprised of $7.4 million due in fiscal 2015; $7.5 million due in fiscal 2016; $5.5 million due in fiscal 2017; $5.0 million due in fiscal 2018; $4.9 million due in fiscal 2019; and $2.1 million due thereafter.