Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. The words believe, may, will, potentially, "likely" estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, "should", project, plan, predict, expect, the negative of any of these words and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth and our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, gross profit or gross margin and operating expenses; our belief that the networking market is rapidly evolving and has a significant potential opportunity for growth; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth; our ability to expand our leadership position in the networking industry and to develop new products and expand our business into new markets such as the AI Ethernet switching, campus workspace, enterprise data center and security markets; our ability to satisfy the requirements for networking solutions and to successfully anticipate technological shifts and market needs, including the impact of artificial intelligence, innovate new products, rapidly develop new features and applications, and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to fulfill our customers orders despite supply chain delays, access to key commodities or technologies or geopolitical events that impact our manufacturers or their suppliers such as the recent U.S. trade wars, the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas conflicts, the Houthi attacks on marine vessels in the Red Sea or the impact of global pandemics such as the global coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic; our ability to identify, complete and realize the benefits of recent and future acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary companies, products, services or technologies; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims and the potential outcomes of such disputes, such as any claims discussed in Legal Proceedings; our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers, including large customers; our ability to expand our business domestically and internationally; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete effectively; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of customers, including large customers who may receive lower pricing terms due to volume discounts or who may elect to re-assign allocations to multiple vendors based upon specific network roles or projects; the growth and buying patterns of our large customers and resulting volatility in our customer concentration in which large bulk purchases may or may not occur in certain quarters or may be deferred into future quarters or cancelled due to adjustments in their capital expenditure forecasts; the deferral or cancellation of orders by customers, warranty returns or delays in acceptance of our products; our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base and sell more complex and higher-performance configurations of our products; our belief that increasing channel leverage will extend and improve our engagement with a broad set of customers; our plans to continue to expand our sales force, marketing activities and relationships with channel, technology and system-level partners; our ability to scale our operational and manufacturing capacity; our plans to invest in our research and development; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology; the benefits realized by our customers in their use of our products and services including lower total cost of ownership; our ability to detect breaches of our cybersecurity systems or other security breaches; the effects of seasonal and cyclical trends on our results of operations; our relationships with and expectations concerning third parties, including, but not limited to our large customers, suppliers, distributors, systems integrators, channel partners and value-added resellers; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our brand and intellectual property; economic and industry trends; estimates and estimate methodologies used in preparing our financial statements; future trading prices of our common stock; our belief that we have adequately reserved for uncertain tax positions; the impact of global economic and political conditions that introduce instability into the U.S. and other economies; the impact of climate change and natural disasters; the impact of global and domestic tax reform; the impact of tariffs imposed by the U.S. on goods from other countries and tariffs imposed by other countries on U.S. goods; and our belief that our existing cash and cash equivalents together with cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements and our growth strategies for the foreseeable future. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Arista Networks is an industry leader in data-driven, client to cloud networking for large data center, campus and routing environments. Aristas platforms deliver availability, agility, automation, analytics and security through an advanced network operating stack. Since Aristas inception, our founders have reimagined cloud networks for performance, scale and programmability with a focus on differentiating in three ways: uncompromising quality, advanced open and standards-based technology and a robust quality assurance capability built on a suite of automated diagnostics. At the core of Aristas platform is Aristas Extensible Operating System (EOS), a modernized publish-subscribe state-sharing networking operating system. Arista EOS, combined with a set of network applications and our Ethernet switching and routing platforms using best of breed merchant silicon, provides customers with a highly competitive and diversified portfolio of products with improved price/performance and time to market. Our current portfolio of offerings are categorized in the following three product categories: Core: high-speed Data Center and Cloud Networking systems including newer artificial intelligence ("AI") Ethernet switching platforms. Cognitive Adjacencies: campus wired and wireless products and advanced routing systems addressing Core Routing, Edge Routing, Data Center Interconnect (DCI), Multi-cloud and Wide Area Networking (WAN) use cases. Network Software and Services: a suite of value-add software solutions that leverage Aristas EOS to provide advanced end-to-end orchestration, automation, analytics, network monitoring and security. Since we began shipping our products in 2008, we have experienced rapid growth, and, according to market research in 2023, we have achieved the leadership position in high-speed Ethernet port shipments of 100G and above and the second largest market share in overall data center Ethernet switch ports and revenue. We have been profitable and cash flow positive since 2010. Our Market Opportunity We sell our products through both a direct sales force and channel partners, competing primarily in the high-speed data center Ethernet switching markets for 10 Gigabit Ethernet ("GbE") and above, including the AI Ethernet switching market, the cloud-grade and enterprise routing markets, and the campus wired and wireless markets. In recent years, we have also entered into the Network Monitoring and Network Detection and Response (NDR) security markets through both acquisition and organic development. Our Customers Our customers span a range of industries and geographies, including large cloud customers or hyperscalers, other internet providers, service providers, financial services organizations, government agencies and a cross section of enterprise customers. Over the past five years, we have diversified the types of enterprise customers we sell to and have continued to expand our presence across a wide spectrum of industries including media and entertainment, healthcare, oil and gas, education, manufacturing, industrial, and more. Meta Platforms and Microsoft, two of our cloud end customers, each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022. Market Drivers Digital Transformation Digital transformation is fundamentally changing the way technology is integrated into business operations and as a result how IT infrastructure is built, and applications are delivered across cloud and end-customer environments. The expanded dependency of business operations on the network has increased the complexity of the network and heightened the importance of network availability, predictable performance, open programmability and operational simplicity. The public cloud leaders pioneered the development of large-scale cloud data centers to meet these growing demands from their users, including business customers. Enterprises now have the option to move applications to the cloud as cloud services are generally easier and more cost effective to deploy, scale and operate than traditional applications. These cloud metrics have become the baseline for performance, cost and efficiency of IT infrastructure investments. Enterprises and service 1 Table of Contents providers around the world are also now adopting cloud computing technologies and principles to their own non-cloud or hybrid operations in order to achieve similar performance, operational efficiencies and cost reductions. Arista addresses our customers' requirements through our approach to network architecture, our platforms and our software. Our comprehensive R-series and X-series switching and routing portfolios running the highly programmable EOS, transform networks with simplified and scalable architectures across multiple use-cases. Artificial Intelligence (AI) The expansion of generative AI computing and distributed applications is further pushing the boundary of predictable scale and performance in the network. A common characteristic of these AI workloads is that they are both data and compute intensive. A typical AI workload involves large sparse matrix computations, distributed across hundreds or thousands of processors (CPU, GPU, TPU, etc.) with intense computations for a period of time and requires a high-bandwidth, scalable, lossless network in order to service these workloads. Arista's AI strategy is based on achieving two key objectives. Arista first offers to customers the Arista Autonomous Virtual Assist ((AVATM)) using natural processing language to provide AI assisted outcomes for security and observability. Arista also provides network switching products intended to provide a robust interconnect that seamlessly links GPUs, compute and storage to deliver fast job completion time for training and generative AI workloads. An overview of our AI enabled solutions is shown below: As a proud founding member, Arista is committed to leading the Ultra Ethernet Consortium (UEC) to achieve scalable and efficient remote memory access, implemented with enhanced packet spraying, flexible ordering, and modern congestion control algorithms. Hybrid Work In the post-pandemic world, the traditional campus has been redefined and the boundaries between the office, home, teleworker and user have converged. At the same time, the proliferation and sophistication of devices that connect the campus, such as smart devices, security cameras and Internet of Things ("IoT"), has grown dramatically. The challenge lies in successfully transitioning the existing siloed campus into a data-driven, distributed campus model with a common experience, while addressing the growing security and availability needs. Aristas campus portfolio was driven by customers desiring the same quality and operational efficiency available from EOS and CloudVision throughout their entire enterprise network. We entered the campus market with a diverse portfolio of modular and fixed form factor Campus spine switches, Power-over-Ethernet (PoE) switches, and WiFi access points based on 2 Table of Contents EOS and managed through CloudVision. We continue to expand our campus portfolio to offer the advantages of EOS across the entire enterprise network. Most recently, we have added incremental Enterprise WAN products as well as embedded NDR security sensors into our campus switches to address more of the security challenges that face campus administrators. Zero Trust Networking Security Today, a zero trust networking approach to security is paramount for organizations looking to build a robust cybersecurity program. Irrespective of which device, application, or user is accessing an enterprise resource, zero trust focuses on complete visibility and control over all activity on the network. Aristas zero trust networking principles, based on NIST 800-207, help customers address this challenge with three cornerstones: visibility, continuous diagnostics, and enforcement. The Arista NDR platform delivers continuous diagnostics for the entire enterprise threat landscape, processes countless points of data, senses abnormalities or threats, and reacts if/when warranted. Limitations of Traditional Enterprise Data Center and Campus Networks The introduction of large scale, highly complex, public cloud environments and the digital transformation of end customer business models meant that the traditional ways of building networks were no longer adequate to meet the needs of customers for the deployment and provision of cloud applications and more recently generative AI applications, and new innovations were needed to push network performance forward. Historically, most common network designs were rigidly hierarchical, based on a 3-tiered model developed in the early days of the internet for sparse north/south traffic patterns. This model was limited in the number of devices that could be connected to a network and introduced many points of congestion as customers tried to scale the solution. As more applications move to the cloud, network connections must scale, and the increased east/west traffic must be managed without congestion. In addition, the switches and routers used to build these tiered networks were based on proprietary, application-specific integrated circuits ("ASICs") that historically underperformed when measured against Moores Law and operating systems that lacked the openness and programmability necessary to automate and effectively manage these networks. As demand for scale and performance increased, the end-user experience was degraded, operational costs increased, and the host cost-per-connection increased. Similarly, traditional enterprise networks have been mired in complexity, proprietary features and architectures, custom ASICs, siloed designs, and fragile software offerings built up over the previous three decades. Because of this, operating a legacy network is riddled with challenges; critical outages that cause risk-averse behaviors, labor-intensive rollouts that impede business initiatives, limited visibility that prevent problem detection and isolation, and overall lack of automation and uniformity that results in inefficiency. In addition, there had historically been little or no attempt to address the needs of building and operating a network infrastructure at massive, cloud scale. As a result, as enterprises moved applications to the cloud and implemented hybrid and multi-cloud strategies, there have been insufficient solutions that could configure, deploy, automate, and manage these scaled and dispersed resources. In the post-pandemic world, enterprise campus wired and wireless networks must cope with an ever increasing number of endpoint IoT devices and remote work locations that require users to be connected from virtually anywhere. Campus administrators have sought to address the resulting increased network complexities and bottlenecks through the adoption of a myriad of platforms, operating systems, proprietary features and network management tools. Coupled with the explosive growth of IoT and the requirement for remote workloads, the operational costs of managing these complexities have become prohibitive. Visibility is a critical component to a more efficient cloud-like network. Being able to capture what a network is thinking or doing is the basis for true network automation and analytics. Legacy networking has long suffered from limitations in network visibility largely due to inefficient polling mechanisms that only provide a limited subset of data. As a result, the operators of legacy networks have been essentially blinded when it comes to true network insight. Our Data-Driven Cloud Networking Solutions Our cloud networking innovations started with pioneering a modern software platform, Arista EOS, which provides switching, routing, state-streaming and telemetry functions across all Arista platforms. EOS established a new standard in networking for large-scale cloud operators, opened the door to the widespread adoption of merchant silicon hardware in 3 Table of Contents networks, and provided dramatic decreases in deployment and operating costs while delivering high reliability for cloud customers, service providers, enterprises, and more. The Arista EOS network stack architecture provides a foundation for consolidation of streamed device state, telemetry, packet, flow, alert, sensor and third-party data into an aggregated Network Data Lake (Arista EOS NetDL). Arista EOS NetDL consolidates diverse datasets required for effectively applying AI/Machine Learning (ML) methods in Network Operations (NetOps) and Security Operations (SecOps) environments, and it presents a single application programming interface ("API") surface for access to network and network-related data for enhancing Arista and third-party applications. An overview of our cloud networking solutions is shown below: The key benefits of our cloud networking solutions are as follows: Capacity, Performance and Scale Our data-driven cloud networking platforms enable data center networks to scale to hundreds of thousands of physical servers and millions of virtual machines with the least number of switching tiers. We achieve this by leveraging standard protocols, non-blocking switch architectures and EOS to meet the scale requirements of cloud computing. We architect active-active Layer 2 and Layer 3 network topologies to enable customers to build extremely large and resilient networks. Emerging capabilities including recent developments related to AI will continue to place increased demands on networking infrastructure. Aristas strategic commitment to using merchant silicon is also a key competitive differentiator for Arista in addressing these capacity demands. Merchant silicon not only provides the best price/performance available but allows Arista to bring next generation platforms to market early allowing customers to benefit from Moores Law. Availability Networks are only useful when they are available. Aristas modular EOS architecture and software testing innovations provide features and network designs that keep the network available even during maintenance and upgrades. EOS publish-subscribe architecture provides self-healing resiliency through live patching, upgrades, fault isolation and containment and graceful process restart to reduce maintenance windows and allow for intelligent insertion and removal of network elements. Openness and Programmability Customers demand open, standards-based networking that avoids vendor lock-in and enables third-party integration to support best in-class technology ecosystems. Arista EOS, built on Linux, features open standard protocols, such as Border Gateway Protocol ("BGP") and Ethernet VPN ("EVPN"), offering interoperable solutions. Our well-structured set of APIs and EOS Software Development Kit ("SDK") as well as multiple DevOps integrations, enable enterprises to automate networking provisioning without manual intervention. EOS also natively supports Ansible, CFEngine, Chef, Puppet, virtual network orchestration applications and third party management tools. Visibility 4 Table of Contents Monitoring network performance in real time is a core need for current and next-generation architectures to run dependably. Arista EOS and CloudVision bring a modern approach to network telemetry and a replacement for legacy polling mechanisms. CloudVision Analytics engines and CloudVision Telemetry Apps leverage the state streaming infrastructure of EOS and NetDL to give Arista customers an unprecedented level of visibility into their network operations. Arista EOS also supports multiple telemetry tracers that bring deeper workload-level visibility by integrating with distributed applications like big data, cloud, container and virtualized environments. Security Arista focuses on building security into the networking layers through features native to EOS, such as segmentation and encryption, as well as NDR powered by AI. Aristas zero trust networking principles, based on NIST 800-207, help customers address security challenges with three cornerstones: visibility, continuous diagnostics, and enforcement. The Arista NDR platform delivers continuous diagnostics for the entire enterprise threat landscape, processes countless points of data, senses abnormalities or threats, and reacts if necessary. Operational Efficiency Automation is critical to delivering operational efficiency and Arista has taken the lessons learned from building large public clouds and engineered network automation into our CloudVision management platform. CloudVision eliminates burdensome manual tasks so organizations can become more agile in making changes to network infrastructure. Fewer manual configurations enable faster time to service and improved availability for our customers. Our open APIs enable standards-based integration with third-party tools as well, supporting additional automation capabilities. Total Cost of Ownership We believe our programmable, scalable leaf-spine architectures, combined with our applications, significantly reduce networking costs when compared to legacy network designs, enabling faster time to service and improved availability. Our automation tools reduce the operational costs of provisioning, managing and monitoring a data center network and speed up service delivery. Our tools provide visibility into complex network environments without the need for additional data collection equipment. Cognitive Campus Workspace Aristas Cognitive campus is based on a data driven architecture and offers consistent, unified management across the campus edge for wired and wireless networks as well as integrated security & proactive network assurance. Our Cognitive Campus Networking solutions are based on three capabilities: Universal Cloud Network (UCN) - Offered as an alternative to brittle, proprietary solutions from legacy vendors, Arista UCN is an open, standards-based design focusing on data-driven control principles. Aristas SplineTM architecture, 7300 Series spine switches, 720/750 Series POE leaf switches, and Wi-Fi platforms consolidate campus layers into simpler topologies that reduce costs and improve reliability. Cognitive Operations - The Cognitive management features built into the Arista CloudVision rely on NetDL to collect real time streaming telemetry from across the campus network and automates many critical IT functions. These features provide real time visibility into the state of the network including traffic flows. CloudVisions AI-enabled AVA leverages data from NetDL for AI/ML-driven outcomes, helping to detect anomalies in the network, identify root causes and offer recommendations for mitigation. The Wi-Fi access points in conjunction with CloudVision also provide proactive network assurance to monitor end user experience without the need for an overlay network. Zero-trust Network Security - Securing the Campus requires a built-in approach to network segmentation, encryption, device compliance and auditing, as well as service integration with Aristas security partners. Arista delivers these capabilities through EOS and CloudVision AVA. Arista campus leaf switches have an integrated AVA sensor that enables the access layer to provide Arista NDR capability without the complexity and cost of additional network monitoring devices. Aristas Macro Segmentation Service Group (MSS-G) provides a simpler, standards-based approach to segmenting traffic in the campus that is more flexible than other proprietary solutions. We believe Aristas Wireless Intrusion Prevention Service (WIPS) provides strong security while eliminating false positives. Our Competitive Strengths 5 Table of Contents We believe the following strengths will allow us to maintain and extend our technology leadership position in data-driven cloud networking and next-generation data center and campus workspace Ethernet products: Purpose-Built Cloud Networking Platform - We have developed a highly scalable cloud networking platform that uses software to address the needs of large-scale cloud companies, cloud service providers, and large enterprises, including AI, virtualization, big data and low-latency applications. As a result, our cloud networking platform does not have the inherent limitations of legacy network architectures. Broad and Differentiated Portfolio - Using multiple merchant silicon architectures, we deliver switches, capable of routing, with industry-leading capacity, low latency, port density and power efficiency, and have innovated in areas such as deep packet buffers, highly available modular hardware, and reversible cooling options. Our broad portfolio has allowed us to offer customers products that best match their specific requirements. Single Binary Image Software - The single binary image of EOS software allows us to maintain feature consistency across our entire product portfolio and enables us to introduce new software innovations into the market that become available to our entire installed base without a forklift upgrade (i.e., a broad upgrade of the data center infrastructure). Rapid Development of New Features and Applications - Our highly modular EOS software has allowed us to rapidly deliver new features and applications while preserving the structural integrity and quality of our network operating system. We believe our ability to deliver new features and capabilities more quickly than legacy switch/router operators provides us with a strategic advantage given that the requirements in cloud and next-generation data center and campus networking continue to evolve rapidly. Deep Understanding of Customer Requirements - We have developed close working partnerships with many of our largest customers that provide us with insights into their needs and future requirements. This has allowed us to develop and deliver products to the market that meet customer demands and expectations as well as to rapidly grow sales to existing customers. Strong Management and Engineering Team with Significant Data Center Networking Expertise - Our management and engineering team consists of networking veterans with extensive data center and campus networking expertise. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson, Jayshree Ullal, has over 40 years of networking expertise from silicon to systems companies, and Kenneth Duda, our Founder, Chief Technology Officer and Director, leads our software development team including EOS. Our technical team also includes highly experienced leaders such as Hugh Holbrook, our Chief Development Officer, who leads our platform driven software engineering, and Andy Bechtolsheim, our Founder and Chief Architect, who was previously a founder and chief system architect at Sun Microsystems. Significant Technology Lead - We believe that our networking technology represents a fundamental advance in networking software. Our EOS software is a key cloud networking software stack that is state-driven and a result of tremendous research and development efforts. Our Products and Technology Our portfolio of products and technology consists of Core Data Center/Cloud/AI Switching Products, Adjacent Campus and Routing Products and Network Software and Services. Extensible Operating System (EOS) The core of our cloud networking platform is our data-driven operating system, EOS, which runs on top of standard Linux and offers programmability at all layers of the stack. System state and data are stored in EOS and maintained in a highly efficient, centralized system database where data is accessed via an automated publish/subscribe model. This distinct design principle provides module independence, self-healing resiliency, and multi-process software stability. We have continued to evolve the EOS software stack transforming the centralized EOS network database into a multi-modal, multi-tenant, capable data lake. The EOS NetDLTM unifies the multiple data types gathered in a network and allows for external data ingestion and enrichment. NetDLTM aggregates data from systems, platforms, and services enabling smoother operations between NetOps, CloudOps, and DevOps operators. EOS is packaged as a perpetual license on Arista hardware platforms, virtualized EOS (vEOS) for production or simulations use cases or containerized EOS (cEOS) for flexible platform support including third-party hardware. Core Datacenter/Cloud/AI 6 Table of Contents Arista offers one of the broadest product portfolios of data-driven, high-speed, cloud and datacenter Ethernet switches. Built on top of the superior quality and openness of Arista EOS, we deliver high performance, industry-leading capacity, ultra-low latency, feature rich, and powerful efficient solutions for customers building and operating cloud networks. Our core switching portfolio contains both fixed and modular form factors, varying port configurations and densities, and options in power delivery all driven by customer requirements. Arista also provides solutions for compute, GPU and storage interconnects in driving AI/ML workloads, leveraging its IP/Ethernet switches to deliver unparalleled performance and scalability. With the exponential growth of AI applications, the need for standardized transport like Ethernet becomes paramount, enabling a power-efficient interconnect while overcoming the complexities of traditional approaches. The 7800R AI spine and 7060X AI leaf switches, coupled with Arista's EOS innovations such as AI Analyzer along with optimal load balancing solutions offer compelling solutions for contemporary AI applications and deployment. We continue to innovate with every generation of switching platforms. Most recently, Arista has brought to market the Arista 7800R AI Spine and the 7060 AI Leaf to address the demanding scale and performance requirements driven by large-scale AI networks. We also continue to be innovative in areas concerning deep packet buffer architectures, virtual output queuing, non-disruptive upgrades, embedded optics and next-generation optics, reversible cooling and overall system power efficiency. Cognitive Adjacencies Cognitive Campus Switching Aristas Cognitive Campus switching products, powered by EOS, offer consistent, unified management across the campus edge for wired and wireless networks as well as integrated security & proactive network assurance. Our campus products include the Arista 7300 Series spine/SplineTM, 720/750 Series POE switches, and a broad range of indoor and outdoor Cognitive Wi-Fi Access Points. Cloud-Grade Routing Aristas Cloud-Grade Routing platforms, powered by EOS, combine high performance routing, high port density, deep buffers, integrated DWDM and wirespeed encryption. Our 7280R3 Universal Leaf and 7500R3 and 7800R3 Universal Spine platforms serve a variety of use cases including high speed multi-cloud connect, Data Center Interconnect (DCI), controller-based traffic engineering, peering, business VPNs, core routing and Secure Enterprise edge routing. WAN Routing System Aristas new 5000 Series of WAN Routing System, powered by EOS, offers high performance and scale to meet enterprise modern WAN edge and aggregation requirements. The 5000 Series supports 1/10/100GbE interfaces and flexible network modules while delivering from 5Gb to over 50Gb of bidirectional encrypted traffic with high VRF and tunnel scale. Networking Software and Services CloudVision CloudVision is Aristas modern, multi-domain management platform that leverages cloud networking principles to deliver a simplified end-to-end network operations experience for our Enterprise market. Unlike traditional domain-specific management solutions, CloudVision enables consistent zero touch network operations across data center, campus wired and wireless, routing interconnect and multi-cloud networks helping to break down the complexity of siloed management approaches. CloudVision is built on Aristas NetDL architecture and leverages real-time network state to provide an abstraction of the physical network to a broader, network-wide perspective allowing for a more efficient approach for several operational and network telemetry capabilities. CloudVisions cloud-native architecture gives customers a choice to consume CloudVision as a subscription service or an on-premise licensed appliance. Arista A-Care Services 7 Table of Contents We have designed our customer support offerings, Arista A-Care Services, to provide our customers with high levels of support. Our global team of support engineers engages directly with client IT teams and is always available over e-mail, by phone or through our website. We offer multiple service options that allow our customers to select the product replacement service level that best meets their needs. We stock spare parts in over 200 locations around the world through our third-party logistics suppliers. All our service options include unlimited access to bug-fixes, new-feature-releases, online case management and our community forums. DANZ Monitoring Fabric (DMF) DANZ Monitoring Fabric (DMF) is a next-generation network packet broker (NPB) architected for pervasive, organization-wide visibility and security, delivering multi-tenant monitoring-as-a-service. Leveraging Arista's high-performance and versatile Ethernet switch platforms with DMF, IT operators can pervasively monitor all user, device/IoT and application traffic (north-south and east-west) by gaining complete visibility into physical, virtual and container environments. Deep hop-by-hop visibility, predictive analytics, contextual insights and scale-out packet capture, integrated through a single dashboard, enables simplified network performance monitoring (NPM) and SecMon workflows for real-time and historical context across production data centers, enterprise campus/branch and 4G/5G mobile networks. DMF switch licenses are sold as subscription licenses. Arista Guardian Network Identity (AGNI) To overcome the new security challenges and the explosion of clients in todays perimeter-less enterprise networks, Arista delivers a novel AI-driven network Identity service, Arista Guardian for Network Identity (AGNI) to connect the network, users, and devices across remote and geographically dispersed locations. Based on Aristas flagship CloudVision, the new AGNI platform brings scale, simplicity, and security across users, their associated endpoints, and IoT devices. AGNI integrates with Arista NDR and other third-party XDR and EDR solutions for post-admission control functionality. AGNI is sold as subscription licenses. Arista's AI-driven Network Detection and Response (NDR) An AI-driven Security Platform, powered by AVATM, Arista NDR analyzes billions of network communications to autonomously discover, profile and classify every device, user, and application across perimeter, core, IoT, and cloud networks. Based on this deep understanding of the attack surface, the platform then detects threats to and from these entities, while providing the context necessary to respond rapidly. The analysis begins with AVA Sensors that span the network and perform deep packet inspection. These sensors are available in a variety of form factors: physical hardware, virtual, cloud-based, and now also incorporated into Arista campus switches. Arista NDR licenses are sold as a subscription license. CloudEOS CloudEOS is Aristas multi-cloud and cloud-native networking solution supporting autonomic operation to deliver an enterprise-class, highly secure, and reliable networking experience for any cloud. As part of the Arista EOS and CloudVision product family, it delivers consistent segmentation, automation, telemetry, provisioning and troubleshooting for the enterprise edge, WAN, campus, data center and multiple public and private clouds. To provide a scalable and automated network experience, CloudEOS integrates with Arista CloudVision to simplify the operator's experience of interconnecting and managing multi-cloud, cloud-native and on-premises enterprise networks. CloudEOS is designed for consumption on Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google public clouds via their marketplace and service catalogs, and it is also available as a cloud-native instance for deployment in Kubernetes clusters. Our portfolio of products and technology consists of our Core Data Center/Cloud Switching Products, our Adjacent Campus and Routing Products and our Network Software and Services. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our products through our direct sales force and in partnership with our channel partners, including distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators and original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") partners. We also sell in conjunction with various technology partners. To facilitate channel coordination and increase productivity, we have created a partner program, the Arista Partner Program, to engage partners who provide value-added services and extend our reach into the 8 Table of Contents marketplace. Authorized training partners perform technical training of our channel partners and end customers. Our partners commonly receive an order from an end customer prior to placing an order with us, and we confirm the identification of the end customer prior to accepting such orders. Our partners generally do not stock inventory received from us. Our sales organization is supported by systems engineers with deep technical expertise and responsibility for pre-sales technical support and solutions engineering for our customers, systems integrators, OEMs, and channel partners. In general, the personnel in our sales organization are formed into teams, and each team is responsible for a geographical territory, has responsibility for a number of major direct end-customer accounts or has assigned accounts in a specific vertical market. A pool of shared channel sales and marketing representatives also supports these teams. Our marketing activities consist primarily of technology conferences, webinars, web marketing, trade shows, product demonstrations, seminars and events, public relations, analyst relations, demand generation and direct marketing to build our brand, increase end-customer awareness, communicate our product advantages and generate qualified leads for our field sales force and channel partners. Seasonality We operate on a December 31st year end and typically have lower sequential quarter over quarter revenue growth in the first quarter of each fiscal year, often followed by stronger sequential revenue growth in the ensuring quarters. We believe that this seasonality results from a number of factors, including the procurement, budgeting and deployment cycles of many of our customers. The effects of recent supply chain disruptions and our rapid growth may have reduced the impact of seasonal or cyclical factors that might otherwise have influenced our business and broader industry performance. If our growth rates slow, seasonal or cyclical variations in our operations may become more pronounced over time and may materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, any supply chain shortages and manufacturing disruptions that result in extended lead times may impact our ability to manufacture and ship products to our customers in a timely manner, which may disrupt typical seasonal trends. Research and Development Our success relies on the timely enhancement of existing products and the development of new solutions and features to address changing customer needs and technological advancements. Our in-house engineering personnel are responsible for the development, testing, documentation, support and release of our products. We have a highly skilled team of software and hardware engineers with extensive experience in wired and wireless networking technologies, network protocols, network security, operating systems, programming languages, compilers, databases, hardware system design, Field-Programmable Gate Array programming, high-speed signal integrity, and other related technologies. Our research and development strategy focuses on advancing our core products and expanding into new markets while maintaining high product quality. We are focusing research and development efforts in (1) adapting EOS for new silicon architectures, especially to support the unique requirements of AI workloads; (2) adding or enhancing EOS control plane and management plane functionality; (3) expanding our CloudVision management stack with enhanced automation, provisioning, monitoring, and security capabilities; (4) building related services, such as NDR and Network Access Control (NAC); (5) improving the security and scalability of our software development infrastructure and software supply chain; and (6) maintaining high product quality throughout. We have dedicated significant time and resources in test automation, ensuring high test pass rates, and working with our support group whenever customers experience technical defects in our products. Collaboration with customers and other industry leaders is integral to our approach, though uncertainties persist regarding the successful development and market acceptance of emerging technologies. Looking ahead, we plan to continue to invest in resources to conduct our research and development efforts to evolving and extending our portfolio's capabilities, ensuring our products continue to address dynamic market needs and solidify our industry leadership. Manufacturing We subcontract the manufacturing of all our products to various contract manufacturers. Our primary manufacturing partners are Jabil Inc., Sanmina Corporation, Flex Ltd. and Foxconn Hon Hai. This approach allows us to reduce our costs, manufacturing overhead and inventory position and allows us to adjust more quickly to changing end-customer demand. We require all our manufacturing locations to be ISO-9001 certified. We have four direct fulfillment facilities worldwide to hold finished goods inventory, perform product transformations, and install our EOS software to ship to customers and partners. Our contract manufacturing partners procure the majority of the components needed to build our products and assemble our products according to our design specifications. This allows us to leverage the purchasing power of our contract 9 Table of Contents manufacturing partners. We retain complete control over the bill of materials, test procedures and quality assurance programs. Our personnel work closely with our partners and review on an ongoing basis the forecasts, inventory levels, processes, capacity, yields and overall quality. Our contract manufacturing partners procure components and assemble our products based on our demand forecasts. These forecasts represent our estimates of future demand for our products based upon historical trends and analyses from our sales and product management functions as adjusted for overall market conditions. For example, when industry-wide supply chain shortages resulted in extended lead times for components, we were required to extend the time horizon of our demand forecasts and increase our purchase commitments for long lead time components. Our products rely on key components, including merchant silicon, integrated circuit components and power supplies purchased from a limited number of suppliers, including certain sole source providers. We may also see increased consolidation among our component suppliers. Generally, neither we nor our contract manufacturers have a written agreement with these component providers to guarantee the supply of the key components used in our products, nor do we have exclusive rights to such key components, and our suppliers could suffer shortages, delay shipments, prioritize shipments to other vendors, increase prices or cease manufacturing such products or selling them to us at any time. The supply of components may also be adversely affected by geopolitical conditions such as international trade wars like the U.S. trade war with China, the Houthi attacks on marine vessels in the Red Sea, and the impact of public health epidemics like COVID-19. Our product development efforts also depend upon continued collaboration with our key suppliers, including our merchant silicon vendors such as Broadcom and Intel. As we develop our product roadmap and continue to expand our relationships with these and other merchant silicon vendors, it is critical that we work in tandem with our key merchant silicon vendors to ensure that their silicon includes improved features and that our products take advantage of such improved features. This enables us to focus our development resources on software core competencies and to leverage the investments made by merchant silicon vendors to achieve cost-effective solutions. Once the completed products are manufactured and tested, our contract manufacturing partners ship them to various direct fulfillment facilities in the United States, the Netherlands and Singapore for final configuration, quality-control inspection and shipment to our distribution partners and customers. After the products are shipped to our customers, our products are installed by the customers or by third-party service providers such as system integrators or value-added resellers on their behalf. Competition The markets in which we compete are highly competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology, changing end-customer needs, evolving industry standards, frequent introductions of new products and services and industry consolidation. We expect competition to intensify in the future as the market for cloud and AI networking expands and existing competitors and new market entrants introduce new products or enhance existing products. The data center and campus networking markets have been historically dominated by Cisco, with competition also coming from other large network equipment and system vendors, including Nvidia, Extreme Networks, Dell/EMC, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Juniper Networks. Most of our competitors and some strategic alliance partners have made acquisitions and/or have entered into or extended partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer more comprehensive product lines, including cloud networking solutions. For example, Broadcom has acquired VMWare and Hewlett Packard Enterprises has entered into an agreement to acquire Juniper Networks. With the emergence of AI networking, new competitive technologies may enter the market to address the requirements of AI clusters. Ethernet, today, faces competition from both InfiniBand (IB) and NV Link interconnects for back-end AI networking clusters. IB has traditionally been used in supercomputer clusters due to its high reliability, low latency and high bandwidth. Both IB and NV Link are often sold as part of a vertical solution along with the GPUs from Nvidia. We also face competition from other companies and new market entrants, current technology partners and customers who may acquire or develop network switches and cloud service solutions for internal use and/or to broaden their portfolio of products to market and sell to customers. Some of these competitors are developing networking products based on off-the-shelf or commoditized hardware technology, or white box hardware, particularly where a customers network strategy seeks to emphasize deployment of such product offerings or adopt a disaggregated approach to the procurement of hardware and software. Customers may also increase their adoption of networking solutions based upon open-source network operating systems that may be provided for free and used either on white box or proprietary hardware. The entrance of new competitors into our markets or the increased adoption of these new technology solutions or consumption models may cause downward pricing pressures, result in lost sales or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. 10 Table of Contents In the NDR market, our Arista NDR offerings compete with other network security vendors including Cisco, DarkTrace, and ExtraHop. In the network packet broker (NPB) market, Arista DANZ Monitoring Fabric (DMF) competes with Gigamon, Keysight, Cisco, Netscout, AVIZ networks and other network monitoring software providers. Our relationships with our strategic alliance partners or suppliers may also shift as industry dynamics change. If strategic alliance partners acquire or develop competitive products or services, our relationship with those partners may be adversely impacted, which could lead to more variability to our results of operations and impact the pricing of our solutions. The principal competitive factors applicable to our products include: breadth of product offerings and features; reliability and product quality; ease of use; pricing; total cost of ownership, including automation, monitoring and integration costs; performance and scale; programmability and extensibility; interoperability with other products; ability to be bundled with other vendor offerings; product availability and shipment lead times; and quality of service, support and fulfillment. We believe our products compete favorably with respect to these factors. Our EOS software offers high reliability, integrates with existing network protocols and is open and programmable. We believe the combination of EOS, a set of network applications and our 1/2.5/5/10/25/40/50/100/200/400/800 Gigabit Ethernet platforms make our offering highly competitive for both cloud and enterprise data centers. However, many of our competitors have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger sales and marketing budgets and resources, broader distribution and established relationships with channel partners and end customers, greater access to larger customer bases, greater customer support resources, greater manufacturing resources, the ability to leverage their sales efforts across a broader portfolio of products, the ability to leverage purchasing power when purchasing subcomponents, the ability to bundle competitive offerings with other products and services, the ability to develop their own silicon chips, the ability to set more aggressive pricing policies, lower labor and development costs, greater resources to make acquisitions, larger intellectual property portfolios and substantially greater financial, technical, research and development or other resources. Intellectual Property Our success and ability to compete depend substantially upon our core technology and intellectual property. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, resellers, systems integrators, manufacturers, and others to protect our intellectual property rights. We file U.S and foreign patent applications to protect our intellectual property and believe that the duration of our issued patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. Patents generally have a duration of twenty years from filing. The remaining duration on the individual patents in our patent portfolio varies. We cannot assure that any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will result in patents of valuable breadth or applicability. In addition, any patents that may be issued may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon them. We also license software from third parties for integration into our products, including open-source software and other software available on commercially reasonable terms. We own a number of trademarks in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, and Arista, EOS, and CloudVision are among our core trademarks. We control access to and use of our software, technology and other proprietary information through internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, contractors, customers and partners. Our software is protected by U.S. and international copyright, patent and trade secret laws. Despite our efforts to protect our software, 11 Table of Contents technology and other proprietary information, unauthorized parties may still copy or otherwise obtain and use our software, technology and other proprietary information. In addition, we intend to expand our international operations, and effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available or may be limited in foreign countries. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become more successful, we believe that competitors will be more likely to try to develop products that are similar to ours and that may infringe our proprietary rights. It may also be more likely that competitors or other third parties will claim that our products infringe their proprietary rights. In particular, large and established companies in our industry have extensive patent portfolios and are regularly involved in both offensive and defensive litigation. From time to time, third parties, including certain of these large companies and non-practicing entities, may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners or our end customers, whom our standard license and other agreements obligate us to indemnify against such claims. Successful claims of infringement by a third-party, if any, could prevent us from distributing certain products or performing certain services, require us to expend time and money to develop non-infringing solutions or force us to pay substantial damages, royalties or other fees. We cannot assure that we do not currently infringe, or that we will not in the future infringe, upon any third-party patents or other proprietary rights. Human Capital Management At Arista, we seek to maintain an environment that is open, diverse and inclusive, and where our people feel valued, included and accountable. One of our key principles is always doing the right thing for our employees. We are committed to maintaining the highest level of professional and ethical standards in the conduct of our business around the world. As of December 31, 2023, we employed approximately 4,023 full-time employees worldwide. None of our employees are represented by unions. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good and have not experienced significant interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements. Diversity and Equal Employment We seek to maintain an environment that is open, diverse and inclusive, and where our employees feel valued. We believe that diverse and inclusive teams enhance individual and company performance and help us attract and retain the best talent available. We strive to build an inclusive culture that encourages, supports and celebrates the diverse voices of our employees. As part of the Arista way, we believe in treating peers with respect, mentoring individuals and developing teams for overall success. We are proud to be an S&P 500 company with both a female CEO and CFO. We were also recognized by Comparably in 2023 amongst the Top 50 best large companies for diversity and Top 100 best large companies for happiness, work-life balances as well as compensation. 50% of our board of directors are women or underrepresented minorities. We are also continuing to make progress towards building diversity in the workspace. In 2023, the percentage of our employee population that were women or underrepresented minorities increased compared to 2022. We offer mentorship opportunities to our employees facilitated by our Women@Arista employee resource group. In addition, we support under-represented employee affinity organizations and actively recruit from historically black colleges and universities, womens colleges and Hispanic/Latinx and African-American professional societies and job fairs. We affirm the principle of equal employment opportunity without regard to any protected characteristic, including but not limited to race, religion, national origin, color, gender, age, disability, pregnancy, marital status, ancestry, military status or sexual orientation. We practice and promote such policies in all locations as appropriate under applicable law. We affirm this principle of freedom from discrimination in all aspects of the employment relationship from recruitment and hiring, through performance evaluations, compensation and promotions. At Arista, we believe that all employees should be treated with dignity and respect. Health and Safety We are committed to protecting the health and safety of our employees, visitors, and the public. Our policy is to maintain our facilities and run our business operations in a manner that does not jeopardize the occupational health and safety of employees. We work to provide safe working environments in our operations. Compensation and Benefits 12 Table of Contents We provide competitive and comprehensive benefit packages that are designed to help and empower employees to make the best decisions for themselves, their family and their lifestyle. Arista offers a broad variety of physical and mental wellness offerings to our global employees in a virtual as well as on-demand format, including fitness classes, webinars on practical wellness takeaways, strategies for stress reduction, financial planning and education, career development and a variety of other topics. In addition, in the United States, we offer our employees an employee stock purchase plan, healthcare and retirement benefits, paid time off and family leave, flexible time away, family planning benefits, backup resources for childcare and elder care, and other employee assistance programs including behavioral health and emotional support assistance. In addition to base salary and benefits, Aristas employees participate in incentive plans that support our organizational philosophy of allowing employees to share in our performance and success. Our executive compensation program is designed to attract, retain, and reward performance and align incentives with achievement of Aristas strategic plan and both short- and long-term operating objectives. Our compensation committee provides oversight of our compensation policies, plans, benefit programs and overall compensation philosophy. Along with our traditional healthcare benefits, we have created a detailed injury and illness prevention program to better protect employees from occupational risks of injury or illness. We periodically host wellness weeks, whose purpose is to raise awareness on health issues, increase education on preventive medicine and available services and shift employee behavior through interactive activities and live presentations. We also maintain a community employee engagement program, which provides opportunities for our employees to engage in volunteering and community service. Training and Development Our employees receive periodic training on various topics, including our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, information security, data privacy, intellectual property, anticorruption, and other topics. In addition, Arista provides extensive training and accreditation opportunities to employees in Sales, Customer Engineering and Software Research and Development roles including our Arista Certified Engineering (ACE) certification program as well as mentorship programs facilitated by our Women@Arista employee resource group. Additional career development content including management training is available through our E-Learning portal to facilitate a culture of lifelong learning. Our engineering teams have the opportunity to further develop their technical skills through our internal Arista PREP Training Program, technical summits, and participation in industry conferences or associations. We also offer a variety of webinars on physical and mental health, career development and financial wellness topics, fitness classes, and social engagement activities. We also partner with non-profit organizations across the globe to provide volunteer opportunities to our employees. Available Information Our website is located at www.arista.com and our investor relations website is located at investors.arista.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are available free of charge on the Investors portion of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Webcasts of our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community are on our investor relations website. Additionally, we announce investor information, including news and commentary about our business and financial performance, SEC filings, notices of investor events, and our press and earnings releases, on our investor relations website. Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for email alerts and RSS feeds. Further corporate governance information, including our corporate governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading Governance. The contents of our websites, or information that can be accessed through our websites, are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 13 Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risk Factors Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Related to Our Business and Industry large purchases by a limited number of customers represent a substantial portion of our revenue; adverse economic conditions, continuing uncertain economic conditions or reduced information technology and network infrastructure spending may adversely affect our business; some key components in our products come from sole or limited sources of supply and increases the risk of supply shortages, extended lead times or supply changes; our revenue and revenue growth rates are volatile and may decline or not meet our or our investor's expectations; our results of operations may vary significantly from period to period and can be unpredictable; the networking market is rapidly evolving; failure to successfully carry out new products and service offerings and expand into adjacent markets could adversely impact our business; we expect our gross margins to vary over time and may be adversely affected by numerous factors; we face intense competition and industry consolidation; we are subject to risks associated with the expansion of our international sales and operations; we face risks associated with the investments in and acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies; seasonality and industry cyclicality may cause fluctuations in our revenue; fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business; failure to raise additional capital on favorable terms could harm our business. Risks Related to Customers and Sales inability to attract new large customers or sell additional products and services to our existing customers could adversely affect our revenue growth; sales of our switches generate most of our product revenue; large customers require more favorable terms; inability to increase market awareness or acceptance of our new products and services may adversely affect our revenue; sales prices of our products and services may decrease; sales cycles can be long and unpredictable; inability to offer high quality support and services could adversely affect our business; declines in maintenance renewals by customers could harm our business; indemnification provisions under our standard sales contracts could expose us to losses; we rely on distributors, systems integrators and value-added resellers to sell our products; sales to government entities are subject to a number of challenges and risks; we are exposed to the credit risk of our channel partners and some of our end customers. Risks Related to Products and Services product quality problems, defects, errors or vulnerabilities could harm our business; failure to anticipate technological shifts could harm our business; our products must interoperate with operating systems, software applications and hardware that is developed by others. Risks Related to Supply Chain and Manufacturing managing the supply of our products and product components is complex; we depend on third-party manufacturers to build our products; 14 future sales forecasts may be materially inaccurate which could result in incorrect levels of inventory and purchase commitments; shipment interruptions or delays could cause our revenue to fall. Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Other Proprietary Rights assertions by third parties of intellectual property rights infringement, misappropriation or other violation could harm our business; failure to protect or assert our intellectual property rights could harm our competitive position; we rely on the availability of licenses to third-party software and other intellectual property; failure to comply with licenses to software and other technology could restrict our ability to sell our products; risk that our competitors could develop products that are similar to or better than ours because we provide access to our software and selected source code to certain partners. Risks Related to Litigation we may become involved in litigation that may materially adversely affect us. Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Data Privacy defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products, failure of our products to detect security breaches or incidents, misuse of our products or risks of product liability could harm our business; breaches of our cybersecurity systems or other security breaches could degrade our ability to conduct our business operations and deliver products and services to our customers, cause vulnerabilities in our products and services or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions and or fines or liabilities for damages incurred by our customers or partners. Risks Related to Accounting, Compliance, Regulation and Tax failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting; if our critical accounting policies are based on incorrect assumptions, our results of operations could fall below analyst and investor expectations and result in a decline in the market price of our common stock; enhanced U.S. tax, tariff, import/export restrictions, Chinese regulations or other trade barriers may negatively affect our business; changes in our income taxes, effective tax rate or new tax laws could adversely affect our results; failure to comply with government laws and regulations could harm our business; issues in the development and use of artificial intelligence, combined with an uncertain regulatory environment, may result in reputational harm, liability, or other adverse consequences to our business operations; we are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability for violations. failure to comply with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and anti-money laundering laws, and similar laws, could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and the value of your investment could decline; any future decisions to reduce or discontinue repurchasing our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase programs could cause the market price of our common stock to decline; sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could reduce the market price of our common stock; insiders have substantial control over us; our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. General Risks inability to hire, retain, train and motivate qualified personnel and senior management could cause our business to suffer; earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods, health epidemics and other catastrophic events could harm our business; we have not paid dividends in the past and do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. 15 Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We expect large purchases by a limited number of customers to continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenue, and any loss, delay, decline or other change in expected purchases could result in material quarter-to-quarter fluctuations of our revenue or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, large purchases by a relatively limited number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our revenue. We have experienced unpredictability in the timing of orders from these large customers primarily due to the time it takes these customers to evaluate, test, qualify and accept our products, the overall complexity of these large orders and changes in demand patterns specific to these customers, including reductions in or changes in mix of capital expenditures by these customers and the impact of cost reduction and other efficiency efforts by these customers. For example, sales to our end customers Microsoft and Meta Platforms in fiscal 2023 and 2022 collectively represented 39% and 42% of our total revenue, respectively, whereas sales to Microsoft in fiscal 2021 amounted to 15% of our revenue and sales to Meta Platforms in fiscal 2021 represented less than 10% of our revenue. This variability in customer concentration has been linked to the timing of new product deployments, and spending cycles with these customers, and we expect continued variability in our customer concentration and timing of sales on a quarterly and annual basis. In addition, we typically provide pricing discounts to large customers, which reduces gross margins for the period in which such sales occur. As a consequence of the concentrated nature of our customer base and their purchasing behavior, our quarterly revenue and results of operations have fluctuated from quarter to quarter and are difficult to estimate. Changes in the business requirements or focus, upgrade cycles, vendor selection, project prioritization, manner in which spending allocations are assigned among multiple vendors based upon specific network roles or projects, financial prospects, lack of growth of our large customers, capital resources and expenditures or purchasing behavior and deceleration in spending of these customers could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays, reductions or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. In addition, an increased focus on the deployment of AI enabled solutions by these customers has accelerated the need for advanced technology offerings including some offerings from potential new market entrants. This prioritization of AI related infrastructure investment has come in conjunction with the announcement of various cost reduction measures by such customers, including optimization and increased efficiency in non-AI related capital expenditures. In some instances, such measures have had, and may continue to have, an impact on certain current or future projects and have reduced our visibility to customer demand, increased our risk of excess and obsolescence charges on existing products, and may result in reductions in future demand and negatively impact our revenue, financial condition, business or prospects. Moreover, because our sales are based primarily on purchase orders, our customers may cancel, delay, reduce or otherwise modify their purchase commitments with little or no notice to us. For example, due to manufacturing and supply chain disruptions resulting in increased lead times, customers had placed orders based on longer planning horizons. These customers may decide to delay or cancel such orders for any reason, including changes in their IT investment priorities, if economic conditions worsen or their financial performance, condition or prospects deteriorate. This limited visibility regarding our customers product needs or changes in those needs, the timing and quantity of which could vary significantly, requires us to rely on estimated demand forecasts to determine how much material to purchase and product to manufacture. Our failure to accurately forecast demand combined with extended supplier lead times on some newer technologies, can lead to product shortages which could lead to delays in fulfilling current and future purchase orders that can impede production by our customers and harm our customer relationships. Further, if we are unable to reduce our lead times, customers may also cancel existing orders or reduce future orders. In the event of any cancellations or reductions of orders, or any reductions in future demand, we may not have enough time to reduce operating expenses to mitigate the effect of the lost revenue on our business, and in addition, could incur increased excess and obsolete inventory-related charges, all of which could materially affect our operating results. We may be unable to sustain or increase our revenue from our large customers, grow revenue with new or other existing customers at the rate we anticipate or at all, or offset a decline or discontinuation of concentrated purchases by our larger customers with purchases by new or existing customers. These customers could reduce their spending levels or otherwise could choose to divert all or a portion of their business with us to one of our competitors, re-assign spending allocations, increase their adoption of "white box" solutions and open-source network operating systems, demand pricing concessions for our services, or require us to provide enhanced services that increase our costs. Moreover, the AI market is new and customers continue to evaluate their opportunity in this market, and the potential demand for AI Ethernet switches may not develop as anticipated or at all. If these factors drive some of our large customers to cancel all or a portion of their business relationships with us, the growth in our business and the ability to meet our current and long-term financial forecasts may be materially impacted. We expect that such concentrated purchases will continue to contribute materially to our revenue for the foreseeable 16 future and that our results of operations may fluctuate materially as a result of such larger customers buying patterns. In addition, we may see consolidation of our customer base, such as among Internet companies and cloud service providers, which could result in the loss of customers. The loss of such customers, or a significant delay or reduction in their purchases, including reductions or delays due to customer departures from recent buying patterns, or an unfavorable change in competitive conditions could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Adverse economic conditions, continuing uncertain economic conditions or reduced information technology and network infrastructure spending may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, network connectivity and access to data and applications. Weak domestic or global economic conditions and continuing economic uncertainty, fear or anticipation of such conditions, a recession, international trade disputes, global pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or a reduction in information technology and network infrastructure spending or a deterioration of the financial performance, condition or prospects of our customers even if economic conditions improve, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, reduced demand or lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our channel partners, reduced unit sales and lower or no growth. While all our markets may be adversely affected by negative macroeconomic conditions, the impact may be particularly significant in our enterprise market where we are seeking to increase our penetration into this market. In addition, the global macroeconomic environment has been negatively affected by, among other things, the uncertainty in the global banking and financial services markets, epidemics, instability in global economic markets, increased U.S. trade tariffs and trade disputes between the U.S., China and other countries, inflationary pressures, higher interest rates, instability in the global credit markets, the impact and uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, instability in the geopolitical environment, the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas conflicts, the Houthi attacks on marine vessels in the Red Sea, political tensions between Taiwan and China, political demonstrations, and foreign governmental debt concerns which have caused, and are likely to continue to cause, uncertainty and instability in local economies and in global financial markets. A government shutdown or a default by the U.S. government on its debt obligations, or related credit-rating downgrades could also have adverse effects on the broader global economy and contribute to, or worsen, an economic recession. We believe that any extended or renewed economic disruptions or deterioration in the global economy could have an adverse impact to our liquidity or to our current and projected business operations, financial condition or results of operations. For example, if banks or other financial institutions with whom we have banking relationships or whose corporate bonds are held in our marketable securities investment portfolio, enter receivership or become insolvent in the future, we may be unable to access, and we may lose some of our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments to the extent those funds are not insured or otherwise protected by the FDIC. In addition, in such circumstances we might not be able to timely pay key vendors and others. We regularly maintain cash balances that are not insured or are in excess of the FDICs insurance limit. Any delay in our ability to access our cash, cash equivalents and investments (or the loss of such funds) or to timely pay key vendors and others could have a material adverse effect on our operations and cause us to need to seek additional capital sooner than planned. In addition, business disruptions and supply chain and manufacturing disruptions may result in customers delaying or canceling or reprioritizing capital expenditures on information technology and network infrastructure, which may affect the overall demand for our products. Customers may also be placing orders based on longer planning horizons to ensure supply. We also believe that our customers continue to assess the impact of these macroeconomic factors on their businesses and future investment plans, resulting in business uncertainty and a more constrained approach to forecasts and orders. Continuing or worsening economic instability or the deterioration of the financial performance, condition or prospects of our customers could result in a cancellation of, or defaults in the payments for, such orders or otherwise adversely affect spending for IT, network infrastructure, systems and tools, and limit our ability to forecast future demand for our products, which could reduce expected revenue or result in a write-down of excess or obsolete inventory. A downturn or a recession may also significantly affect financing markets, the availability of capital and the terms and conditions of any financing arrangements, including the overall cost of financing as well as the financial health or creditworthiness of our customers. Circumstances may arise in which we need, or desire, to raise additional capital, and such capital may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Because some of the key components in our products come from sole or limited sources of supply, we have entered into significant purchase commitments and are susceptible to supply shortages, extended lead times or supply changes, which could disrupt or delay our scheduled product deliveries to our customers and may result in the loss of sales and customers. 17 Our products rely on components, including merchant silicon chips, integrated circuit components, printed circuit boards, connectors, custom-tooled sheet metal and power supplies that we purchase, or our contract manufacturers purchase on our behalf from a limited number of suppliers, including certain sole source providers. Generally, we do not have guaranteed supply contracts with our component suppliers, and our suppliers have suffered and could continue to suffer shortages, require longer lead times, delay shipments, prioritize shipments to other vendors, decommit orders, increase prices, impose expedite fees or cease manufacturing such products or selling them to us at any time. Supply of these components worldwide was and could continue to be adversely affected by supply constraints, as well as industry consolidation and geopolitical conditions such as international trade wars like the U.S. trade war with China, the Russia-Ukraine conflict, Israel-Hamas conflict, the Houthi attacks on marine vessels in the Red Sea, and increased political tensions in Russia, Europe or Asia. Such shortages, increased component lead times, reduced allocations of components and decommitments of orders have resulted in and may continue to result in increased component prices, fewer sourcing options, unpredictability of supply, prolonged manufacturing disruptions and increased product lead times, which has impacted and may continue to adversely impact our revenue and gross margins. Although we have entered into significant purchase commitments to support long-term customer demand, if we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of any of these components on commercially reasonable terms or in a timely manner, or if we are unable to obtain alternative sources for these components, shipments of our products could be delayed or halted entirely, or we may be required to redesign our products. Any of these events could result in the cancellation of orders, lost sales, reduced gross margins or damage to our customer relationships, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, if our suppliers do not meet their commitments, customers cancel orders or actual demand is less than our demand forecasts, it could result in excess or obsolete inventory, which we would be required to write down to its estimated realizable value, which in turn could result in lower gross margins and operating income. Our operating cash flows have also been and may continue to be negatively impacted by significant component inventories on hand or at our contract manufacturers. Our reliance on component suppliers also yields the potential for the infringement, misappropriation or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights due to the incorporation of such components into our products. We may not be indemnified by such component suppliers for such infringement, misappropriation or other violation claims. Any litigation for which we do not receive indemnification could require us to incur significant legal expenses in defending against such claims or require us to pay substantial royalty payments or settlement amounts that would not be reimbursed by our component suppliers. Our product development efforts are also dependent upon the success of our continued collaboration with our key merchant silicon vendors such as Broadcom and Intel. As we develop our product roadmap, we select specific merchant silicon from these vendors for each new product. It is critical that we work in tandem with these vendors to ensure that their silicon includes improved features, that our products take advantage of such improved features, and that such vendors are able to supply us with sufficient quantities on commercially reasonable term to meet customer demand. Reliance on these relationships allows us to focus our research and development resources on our software core competencies while leveraging their investments and expertise. The merchant silicon vendors may not be successful in continuing to innovate, meet deadlines for the release of their products or produce a sufficient supply of their products. Moreover, these vendors may not collaborate with us or may become competitive with us by selling merchant silicon for white boxes or other products to our customers. If our key merchant silicon vendors do not continue to innovate, if there are delays in the release of their products or supply shortages, if they no longer collaborate in such fashion or if such merchant silicon is not offered to us on commercially reasonable terms, our products may become less competitive, our own product launches could be delayed or we may be required to redesign our products to incorporate alternative merchant silicon, which could result in lost sales, reduce gross margins, damage to our customer relationships or otherwise have a material effect on revenue and business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In the event of a shortage or supply interruption from our component suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. Further, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. In addition, our component suppliers change their selling prices frequently in response to market trends, including industry-wide increases in demand, or charge additional fees to expedite orders, and because we do not have contracts with these suppliers or guaranteed pricing, we are susceptible to availability or price fluctuations related to raw materials and components. If we are unable to pass component price increases along to our customers or maintain stable pricing, our gross margins could be adversely affected and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer. 18 Our revenue and our revenue growth rates are volatile and may decline or not meet our or our investors' expectations. Our revenue growth rates in previous periods may not be indicative of our future performance. We have experienced annual revenue growth rates of 33.8%, 48.6%, 27.2%, and -3.9% in 2023, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. In the future, our revenue growth rates will continue to be volatile due to cyclical trends in our business, and as we become more penetrated in our existing customer base and product markets and look to enter and expand into new markets. In addition, we have experienced supply constraints that have resulted in manufacturing and shipment delays, which have negatively affected the timing of revenue recognition. If these manufacturing and supply chain disruptions recur and/or if we are unable to reduce our lead times it could also result in the cancellation of orders by customers, reduce demand from existing customers in future periods, and increase difficulty in adding new customers. Other factors may also contribute to declines in our growth rates, including changes in demand for our products and services, particularly from our large customers, the deterioration of the financial performance, condition or prospects of our large customers, changes in capital spending by our large customers, increased competition, price sensitivities from our customers to increases in our pricing, our ability to successfully manage our expansion or continue to capitalize on growth opportunities, the maturation of our business, the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas conflicts, the Houthi attacks on marine vessels in the Red Sea, a potential global economic downturn or recession that would particularly impact our enterprise customers, uncertainty in the global banking and financial service markets and other general economic and international trade conditions such as political tensions between Taiwan and China and international trade wars involving the U.S. and China and other countries, and our ability to be successful in the AI market and adjacent markets, such as campus switching, WiFi networking markets and network security markets. We have experienced volatility in demand from certain of our large customers, and some of our large customers have announced various cost reduction measures or are considering changing technology roadmaps and priorities including the need for the rapid deployment of AI and related technologies, which have had and could continue to have, an impact on certain current or future projects and have reduced our visibility to demand for these customers, which may result in reductions in overall demand from these customers in future periods and negatively impact our revenue, financial condition, business or prospects. You should not rely on our revenue for any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future revenue or revenue growth. If we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected, and our stock price could be volatile. Our results of operations have varied significantly from period to period and are unpredictable and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors or our previously issued financial guidance, or if any forward-looking financial guidance does not meet the expectation of analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our results of operations have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that this trend will continue. As a result, you should not rely upon our past financial results for any period as indicators of future performance. Our results of operations in any given period have been and could continue to be influenced by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including: general economic conditions, both domestically and in foreign markets, and disruptions in our business and the markets due to, among other things, recessionary risks and a global economic downturn, higher interest rates, monetary policy shifts, inflationary pressures, supply chain and labor shortages, the recent banking crisis, potential disruptions from the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas conflicts, the Houthi attacks on marine vessels in the Red Sea, political tensions between Taiwan and China and international trade wars involving the U.S. and China and other countries; our inability to fulfill our customers orders, the cancellation of orders, the reduction in future demand for our products by our customers or increased difficulty in adding new customers due to the unavailability or unpredictable supply of inventory, supply chain delays, access to key commodities or technologies, manufacturing disruptions or other events that impact our manufacturers or their suppliers; deferral, reduction or cancellation of orders from customers due to long lead times, announcements by us or other competitors of new products or product enhancements, warranty returns, general economic conditions or other factors; our ability to increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers, including large customers; the budgeting, sales, implementation and refresh cycles, purchasing practices, technology roadmaps and priorities and buying patterns of customers, including large customers who generally receive lower pricing terms due to volume discounts and who may or may not make large bulk purchases in certain quarters or who may elect to re-assign 19 allocations to multiple vendors based upon specific network roles or projects or who may be placing orders based on longer planning horizons to ensure supply; changes in the growth rate of existing or new customers or the deterioration of the financial performance, condition or prospects of existing or new customers, including large customers and service providers, changes in end-customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs, and changes in growth rates of the networking market; the cost and potential outcomes of existing and future litigation; increased expenses resulting from increases in component, production and logistics costs resulting from factors such as global inflationary pressures, shortages in supply for semiconductors, and China's controls on the use of certain products and on the export of metals used in semiconductor manufacturing, or the tariffs imposed by the U.S. on goods from other countries and tariffs imposed by other countries on U.S. goods, including the tariffs implemented by the U.S. government on various imports from China; changes in our pricing policies, whether initiated by us or as a result of competition; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operation and expansion of our business; difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited visibility into the spending plans of current or prospective customers; excess or obsolete inventory resulting in write-downs and charges related to supplier liabilities; the inclusion of any acceptance provisions in our customer contracts or any delays in acceptance of those products; the actual or rumored timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors or customers; our ability to successfully expand our business domestically and internationally; our ability to increase the size and production of our sales or distribution channel, or any disruption in, or termination of, our sales or distribution channels; decisions by potential customers to purchase our networking solutions from larger, more established vendors, white box vendors or their primary network equipment vendors; disruptions caused by pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and the government restrictions in response to the pandemic; insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, which could adversely affect their ability to purchase or pay for our products and services, or confronting our key suppliers, including our sole source suppliers, which could disrupt our supply chain; seasonality or cyclical fluctuations in our markets; future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies; our overall effective tax rate, including impacts caused by any reorganization in our corporate structure, any changes in our valuation allowance for domestic deferred tax assets and any new legislation or regulatory developments; increases or decreases in our expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as an increasing portion of our expenses are incurred and paid in currencies other than the U.S. dollar; increases in cybersecurity threats, including security threats from state sponsors; and other risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of several of the factors described above may result in significant fluctuations in our financial and other results of operations and may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failure to meet our revenue, gross margins, results of operations or other expectations contained in any forward-looking financial guidance we have issued or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such guidance or expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. In the past, we have failed to meet investor financial expectations and the market price of our common stock declined. The networking market is rapidly evolving. If this market does not evolve as we anticipate or our target customers do not adopt our networking solutions, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our ability to generate revenue will suffer. A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on the growth and evolution of the networking market, including the evolution of the market for AI networks and the future deployment of Ethernet networking solutions in these AI 20 networks. The market demand for networking solutions has increased in recent years as customers have deployed larger, more sophisticated networks and have increased the use of virtualization and cloud computing. The continued growth of this market will be dependent upon many factors including but not limited to the adoption of and demand for our customers products and services, the expansion, evolution and build out of our customers networks, the capacity utilization of existing network infrastructures, changes in the technological requirements for the products and services to be deployed in these networks, the amount and mix of capital spending by our customers, including any changing technology priorities such as the rapid deployment of AI and related technologies, the development of network switches and cloud service solutions by our large customers for internal use, the financial performance and prospects of our customers, the availability of capital resources to our customers, changes in government regulation that could impact networking business models including those regulations related to AI, cybersecurity, privacy, data protection and net neutrality, our ability to provide networking solutions that address the needs of our customers more effectively and economically than those of other competitors or existing technologies and general economic conditions. In particular, the market for AI applications is new and our customers are continuing to evaluate their opportunity in this market. If the AI market does not develop as anticipated or at all, then the potential demand for AI Ethernet switches may not be realized. Moreover, even if the market for AI applications does develop, the successful adoption of AI Ethernet products will be dependent upon their ability to compete against more established InfiniBand products to address AI networking clusters. If the networking solutions market including the AI Ethernet market does not develop in the way we anticipate or otherwise experiences a slow-down, if our solutions do not offer benefits compared to competing networking products or if customers do not recognize the benefits that our solutions provide, then our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We pursue new product and service offerings and expand into adjacent markets, and if we fail to successfully carry out these initiatives, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely impacted. We have made substantial investments to develop new products and services and enhancements to existing products through our acquisitions and internal research and development efforts to expand our product offerings and maintain our revenue growth. If we are unable to anticipate technological changes in our industry by introducing new or enhanced products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner or if we fail to introduce products and services that meet market demand, we may lose our competitive position, our products may become obsolete, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. For example, with our most recently introduced 800 GbE and AI focused Ethernet products, our ability to continue to maintain our competitive position with our customers will depend on our ability to deliver these new products in a timely manner, our customers' acceptance of these products and the growth of the markets that these products serve. In addition, the evaluation, testing and qualification of our new products by our customers may be lengthy and may require contractual acceptance clauses, which could delay our revenue recognition and impact our revenue and deferred revenue balances. Additionally, from time to time, we invest in expansion into adjacent markets, including campus and WiFi networking, cloud and enterprise routing markets, network security markets and SD-WAN markets. Although we believe these solutions are complementary to our current offerings, we have less experience and a more limited operating history in these markets, and our efforts in this area may not be successful. Expanding our services in existing and new markets and increasing the depth and breadth of our presence imposes significant burdens on our marketing, compliance, and other administrative and managerial resources. Our plan to expand and deepen our market share in our existing markets and possibly expand into additional markets is subject to a variety of risks and challenges. Our success in these new markets depends on a variety of factors, including but not limited to our ability to develop new products, new product features and services that address the customer requirements for these markets, attract a customer base in markets in which we have less experience, compete with new and existing competitors in these adjacent markets, and gain market acceptance of our new products. Developing our products is expensive, and the investment in product development may involve a long payback cycle. We expect to continue to invest heavily in software development in order to expand the capabilities of our cloud networking platform and introduce new products and features. We expect that our results of operations will be impacted by the timing and size of these investments. These investments may take several years to generate positive returns, if ever. Additionally, future market share gains may take longer than planned and cause us to incur significant costs. If we are unable to attract new large customers or to sell additional products and services to our existing customers, our revenue growth 21 will be adversely affected, and our revenue could decrease. Difficulties in any of our new product development efforts or our efforts to enter adjacent markets could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We expect our gross margins to vary over time and may be adversely affected by numerous factors. We expect our gross margins to vary over time and the gross margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including but not limited to pricing pressure on our products and services due to competition, the ability of more fully integrated competitors to bundle their networking products with other products, or utilize proprietary silicon in their products, the mix of sales to large customers who generally receive lower pricing, the mix of products sold, manufacturing-related costs, including costs associated with supply chain sourcing activities, merchant silicon costs, and excess/obsolete inventory charges, including charges for excess/obsolete component inventory held by our contract manufacturers. In addition, other factors that may impact our gross margins over time include the introduction of new products and new business models including the sale and delivery of more software and subscription solutions, entry into new markets or growth in lower margin markets, entry in markets with different pricing and cost structures, pricing discounts given to customers, costs associated with defending intellectual property rights infringement, misappropriation or other violation claims and the potential outcomes of such disputes, increased costs arising from epidemics, changes in distribution channels, increased warranty costs, and our ability to execute our operating plans. In addition, inflationary pressures and shortages have increased and may continue to increase costs for certain materials, components, supplies and services. As a result of cost inflation in our supply chain, we have implemented targeted price increases from time to time. However, these price increases could result in a decrease in demand for our products which would decrease revenue. In addition, business were subject to sustained economic stress or recession, many of the risk factors identified in this risk factors section could be heightened. We determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenue and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. As a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter to quarter. Failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We face intense competition, especially from larger, well-established companies and industry consolidation may lead to further increased competition, which may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The markets in which we compete, including the markets for data center, campus networking and network visibility and security, are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future from established competitors, industry consolidation and new market entrants. This competition has resulted in increased pricing pressure, which could result in reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and the loss of market share, any of which would likely harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The data center and campus networking markets have been historically dominated by Cisco, with competition also coming from other large network equipment and system vendors, including Extreme Networks, Dell/EMC, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Nvidia, Juniper Networks and white box networking vendors. Most of our competitors and some strategic alliance partners have made acquisitions and/or have entered into or extended partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer more comprehensive product lines, including cloud networking solutions and network security. For example, Cisco acquired Acacia Communications, Broadcom acquired Brocade Communications and VMware, Dell acquired Force10 Networks, Hewlett Packard Enterprise recently announced the acquisition of Juniper Networks. This industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our business. Large system vendors are increasingly seeking to deliver vertically integrated cloud networking solutions to customers that combine cloud-focused hardware and software solutions as an alternative to our products. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. Industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete with us, and this could lead to more variability in our results of operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, the pricing of our solutions, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We also face competition from other companies and new market entrants, including current technology partners, suppliers and customers or other cloud service providers who may acquire or develop network switches and cloud service solutions for internal use and/or to broaden their portfolio of products to market and sell to customers. Some of these competitors are developing networking products based on off-the-shelf or commoditized hardware technology, or white box hardware, particularly where a customers network strategy seeks to emphasize deployment of such product offerings or adopt a disaggregated approach to the procurement of hardware and software. Customers may also increase their adoption of 22 networking solutions based upon open-source network operating systems that may be provided for free and used either on white box or proprietary hardware. As new markets emerge like AI, we expect the field to remain intensely competitive. In addition, we have not established broad market awareness or acceptance of our AI Ethernet products that will compete against more established InfiniBand products. Furthermore, the entrance of new competitors into our markets or the increased adoption of these new technology solutions or consumption models may cause downward pricing pressures, result in lost sales or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our relationships with our strategic alliance partners or suppliers may also shift as industry dynamics changes. If strategic alliance partners acquire or develop competitive products or services, our relationship with those partners may be adversely impacted, which could lead to more variability to our results of operations and impact the pricing of our solutions. Many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition and longer operating histories, larger sales and marketing budgets and resources, broader distribution and established relationships with channel partners and end customers, the ability to leverage their sales efforts across a broader portfolio of products, the ability to bundle competitive offerings with other products and services or to reduce the price of products and services that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or services, the ability to develop their own silicon chips, the ability to set more aggressive pricing policies, lower labor and development costs, greater resources to make acquisitions, larger intellectual property rights portfolio, and substantially greater financial, technical, research and development or other resources. In addition, large competitors may have more extensive relationships with and within existing and potential customers that provide them with an advantage in competing for business with those customers. For example, certain large competitors encourage customers of their other products and services to adopt their data networking solutions through discounted bundled product packages. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability to provide a better solution than our competitors at a more competitive price. We may be required to make substantial additional investments in research, development, marketing and sales in order to respond to competition, and we cannot assure you that these investments will achieve any returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We also expect increased competition if our market continues to expand. As we continue to expand globally, we have seen and continue to see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced and could continue to experience price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets, as well as those with greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Conditions in our market could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or other factors. We are subject to a number of risks associated with the expansion of our international sales and operations. Our ability to grow our business and our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our operations and customer base worldwide. Many of our customers, resellers, partners, suppliers and manufacturers operate around the world.Operating in a global marketplace, we are subject to risks associated with having an international reach and compliance and regulatory requirements.Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including the following: ability to establish necessary business relationships and to comply with local business requirements, including distributor and reseller relationships; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts and accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods and non-standard terms with customers related to payment, warranties or performance obligations; increased management complexity involved in, and expenses incurred in establishing and maintaining our international operations; fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies where we do business; general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets; global macroeconomic conditions, including recessionary cycles; risks associated with U.S. and foreign legal requirements, including those relating to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, privacy, data protection and the importation, certification and localization of our products in foreign countries; 23 risks associated with government trade restrictions, including those which may impose restrictions, including prohibitions on the exportation, re-exportation, sale, shipment or other transfer of programming, technology, components, and/or services to foreign persons; changes in trade controls, economic sanctions, or other international trade regulations, which have in general recently trended toward increasing breadth and complexity of controls, and which may affect our ability to import or export our products to and from various countries; risks of unexpected changes in regulatory practices, tariffs and tax laws and treaties; greater risk of unexpected changes in tariffs imposed by the U.S. and other countries; deterioration of political relations between the U.S. and China, Russia, the United Kingdom and the EU as well as the Israel-Hamas conflict and Houthi attacks on marine vessels in the Red Sea, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operations as well as our supply chain in these countries; possible deterioration in relations between Taiwan and China, and other factors affecting military, political, or economic conditions in Taiwan or elsewhere in Asia; issues related to cloud-specific regulatory requirements in certain countries, including the UK, EU and Asia-Pacific countries; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, or irregularities in, financial statements. These and other factors could harm our ability to gain future international revenue and, consequently, materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Expanding our existing international operations and entering into additional international markets will require significant management attention and financial commitments. Our failure to successfully manage our international operations and the associated risks effectively could limit our future growth or materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We have invested and may continue to invest in or acquire other businesses which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. As part of our business strategy, we have made and could continue to make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies which could involve licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in or acquisitions of other companies. For example, we completed the acquisition of Untangle Holdings and Pluribus Networks in 2022, which required management to focus efforts on integrating these acquisitions with the company. In addition, the privately-held companies in which we invested are in the startup or development stages. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize, and we could lose our entire investment in these companies. We may not be able to find suitable investment or acquisition candidates and we may not be able to complete such investments or acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete investments or acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, and any investments or acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively by our customers, investors and securities analysts. Through acquisitions, we continue to expand into new markets and we may experience challenges in entering into new markets for which we have not previously manufactured and sold products, including facing exposure to new market risks, difficulty achieving expected business results due to a lack of experience in new markets, products or technologies or the initial dependence on unfamiliar distribution partners or vendors. In addition, investments and acquisitions may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. For example, if we are unsuccessful at integrating any acquisitions or retaining key talent from those acquisitions, or the technologies associated with such acquisitions, into our company, the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of the combined company could be adversely affected. We may have difficulty retaining the employees of any acquired business or the acquired technologies or research and development expectations may prove unsuccessful. Any integration process may require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our business. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or personnel or accurately forecast the financial effects of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. Any acquisition or investment could expose us to unknown liabilities. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities. We may not 24 be successful in retaining or expanding the customers and sales activities of any acquired business or in realizing the expected operational and cost efficiencies anticipated with the acquisition. We may have to pay cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any such investment or acquisition, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or the market price of our common stock. The sale of equity or issuance of debt to finance any such acquisitions could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also include covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to manage our operations. Moreover, if the investment or acquisition becomes impaired, we may be required to take an impairment charge, which could adversely affect our financial condition or the market price of our common stock. Seasonality and industry cyclicality may cause fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. We operate on a December 31st year end and typically have lower sequential quarter over quarter revenue growth in the first quarter of each fiscal year, often followed by stronger sequential revenue growth in subsequent quarters. We believe that this seasonality results from a number of factors, including the procurement, budgeting and deployment cycles of many of our customers. The effects of recent supply chain disruptions and our rapid growth may have reduced the impact of seasonal or cyclical factors that might otherwise have influenced our business and broader industry performance. If our growth rates slow, seasonal or cyclical variations in our operations may become more pronounced over time and may materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, any supply chain shortages and manufacturing disruptions that result in extended lead times may impact our ability to manufacture and ship products to our customers in a timely manner, which may disrupt typical seasonal trends. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our sales contracts are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, and therefore, substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk; however, as a result of the strengthening U.S. dollar, there has been an increase in the cost of our products to our customers outside of the U.S., which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase our product and operating costs in foreign locations. Further, a portion of our operating expenses is incurred outside the U.S., is denominated in foreign currencies and is subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If we are not able to successfully hedge against the risks associated with the currency fluctuations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. If we needed to raise additional capital to expand our operations, invest in new products or for other corporate purposes, our failure to do so on favorable terms could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. If we did need to raise additional funds to expand our operations, invest in new products or for other corporate purposes, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests, and the market price of our common stock could decline. Furthermore, if we engage in debt financing, the holders of such debt would have priority over the holders of common stock, and we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or impose other restrictions on our business. We may also be required to take other actions that would otherwise be in the interests of the debt holders, including maintaining specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things, enhance our products and services, expand our sales and marketing and research and development organizations, acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses, and respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. Our failure to do any of these things could seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risks Related to Customers and Sales If we are unable to attract new large customers or to sell additional products and services to our existing customers, our revenue growth will be adversely affected and our revenue could decrease. 25 To increase our revenue, we must add new customers, especially large customers, and sell additional products and services to existing customers. For example, one of our sales strategies is to target specific projects at our current customers because they are familiar with the operational and economic benefits of our solutions, thereby reducing the sales cycle into these customers. We also believe the opportunity with current customers is significant given their existing infrastructure and expected future spend. Another one of our sales strategies is focused on increasing penetration in the enterprise and campus markets. However, sales strategies focused on expansion to adjacent markets can require more time and effort since enterprise and campus customers typically start with small purchases, and there is often a long testing period. For this reason, in order to grow our revenue, it is important for us to attract new large customers. Some factors that may limit our ability to attract new large customers include, but are not limited to, saturation with certain large cloud networking customers, competition, decreased capital spending by such customers, a limited number of such customers, and a decline in growth at such customers. If we fail to attract new large customers, including enterprise and campus customers, or fail to reduce the sales cycle and sell additional products to our existing customers, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be harmed. Sales of our switches generate most of our product revenue, and if we are unable to continue to grow sales of these products, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will suffer. Historically, we have derived substantially all of our product revenue from sales of our switching and routing platforms, and we expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. We have experienced declines in sales for some of our products over time as they mature and are superseded by products with improved performance and functionality. A decline in the price of switches and related services, or our inability to increase sales of these products, would harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects more seriously than if we derived significant revenue from a larger variety of product lines and services. Our future financial performance will also depend upon successfully developing and selling next-generation versions of our switches. If we fail to deliver new products, new features, or new releases that customers want and that allow us to maintain leadership in what will continue to be a competitive market environment, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be harmed. Our large customers generally require more favorable terms and conditions from their vendors and may request price concessions. As we seek to sell more products to these customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenue. Our large customers have significant purchasing power and, as a result, generally receive more favorable terms and conditions than we typically provide to other customers, including lower prices, bundled upgrades, extended warranties, acceptance terms, indemnification terms and extended return policies and other contractual rights. As we seek to sell more products to these large customers, an increased mix of our shipments may be subject to such terms and conditions, which may reduce our margins or affect the timing of our revenue recognition and thus may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are unable to increase market awareness or acceptance of our new products and services, our revenue may not continue to grow or may decline. We have not yet established broad market awareness or acceptance of products and services that we have introduced in the AI Ethernet, campus workspace and network security markets. Market awareness of our value proposition and products and services will be essential to our continued growth and our success, particularly for the service provider and broader enterprise markets. If our marketing efforts are unsuccessful in creating market awareness of our company and our products and services or in gaining access to new customer markets, or if these new products and services are not accepted by customers, then our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be adversely affected, and we will not be able to achieve sustained growth. The sales prices of our products and services may decrease, which may reduce our gross profits and adversely affect our results of operations. The sales prices for our products and services may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts, a change in our mix of products and services, the introduction of new products and services by us or by our competitors including the adoption of white box solutions, promotional programs, or broader macroeconomic factors. In addition, we have provided, and plan to continue to in the future provide, pricing discounts to large customers, which may result 26 in lower margins for the period in which such sales occur. Our gross margins may also fluctuate as a result of the timing of such sales to large customers. We have historically experienced declines in sales prices for some of our products and services and could continue to experience such declines. Competition continues to increase in the markets in which we participate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. Larger competitors with more diverse product and service offerings may reduce the price of products and services that compete with ours or may bundle them with other products and services. Additionally, although we generally price our products and services worldwide in U.S. dollars, currency fluctuations in certain countries and regions may adversely affect actual prices that partners and customers are willing to pay in those countries and regions. Furthermore, sales prices and gross profits for our products may decrease over product life cycles. Decreased sales prices for any reason may reduce our gross profits and adversely affect our result of operations. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our sales and revenue are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from period to period, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly. The timing of our sales and revenue recognition is difficult to predict because of the length and unpredictability of our products sales cycles. A sales cycle is the period between initial contact with a prospective customer and any sale of our products. End-customer orders often involve the purchase of multiple products. These orders are complex and difficult to complete because prospective customers generally consider a number of factors over an extended period of time before committing to purchase the products and solutions we sell. Customers, especially our large customers, often view the purchase of our products as a significant and strategic decision and require considerable time to evaluate, test and qualify our products prior to making a purchase decision and placing an order. The length of time that customers devote to their evaluation, contract negotiation and budgeting processes varies significantly. In addition, customers may delay upgrades to their network infrastructure which extends the upgrade and sales cycle. Our products sales cycles can be lengthy in certain cases, especially with respect to our prospective large customers and certain markets including the enterprise and campus markets. During the sales cycle, we expend significant time and money on sales and marketing activities and make investments in evaluation equipment, all of which lower our operating margins, particularly if no sale occurs. Even if a customer decides to purchase our products, there are many factors affecting the timing of our recognition of revenue, which makes our revenue difficult to forecast. For example, there may be unexpected delays in a customers internal procurement processes, particularly for some of our larger customers for which our products represent a very small percentage of their total procurement activity. In addition, due to macroeconomic uncertainties, the sales cycle may be extended and there may be delays and reductions of expenditures and cancellations by customers. There are many other factors specific to customers that contribute to the timing of their purchases and the variability of our revenue recognition, including the strategic importance of a particular project to a customer, budgetary constraints and changes in their personnel. Even after a customer makes a purchase, there may be circumstances or terms relating to the purchase that delay our ability to recognize revenue from that purchase. In addition, the significance and timing of our product enhancements, and the introduction of new products by our competitors, may also affect customers purchases. For all of these reasons, it is difficult to predict whether a sale will be completed, the particular period in which a sale will be completed or the period in which revenue from a sale will be recognized. If our sales cycles lengthen, our revenue could be lower than expected, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our support and services offerings, and if we are unable to offer high-quality support and services this could adversely effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Once our products are deployed within our customers networks, our customers depend on our support organization and our channel partners to resolve any issues relating to our products. High-quality support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our products. If we or our channel partners do not assist our customers in deploying our products effectively, do not succeed in helping our customers resolve post-deployment issues quickly or do not provide adequate ongoing support, or if we experience quality issues with these new products, it could adversely affect our ability to sell our products to existing customers and could harm our reputation with potential customers. In addition, as we continue to expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. Our failure or the failure of our channel 27 partners to maintain high-quality support and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business depends on customers renewing their maintenance and support contracts. Declines in maintenance renewals by customers could harm our future business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We typically sell our products with maintenance and support as part of the initial purchase, and a portion of our annual revenue comes from renewals of maintenance and support contracts. Our customers have no obligation to renew their maintenance and support contracts after the expiration of the initial period, and they may elect not to renew their maintenance and support contracts, to renew their maintenance and support contracts at lower prices through alternative channel partners or to reduce the product quantity under their maintenance and support contracts, thereby reducing our future revenue from maintenance and support contracts. If our customers, especially our large customers, do not renew their maintenance and support contracts or if they renew them on terms that are less favorable to us, our revenue may decline and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will suffer. Our standard sales contracts contain indemnification provisions requiring us to defend our customers against third-party claims, including against infringement, misappropriation or other violation of certain intellectual property rights that could expose us to losses which could seriously harm our business, financial conditions, results of operations and prospects. Under the indemnification provisions of our standard sales contracts, we agree to defend our customers and channel partners against third-party claims asserting infringement, misappropriation or other violation of certain intellectual property rights, which may include patents, copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets, and to pay judgments entered on such claims. An adverse ruling in such litigation may potentially expose us to claims in the event that claims are brought against our customers based on the ruling and we are required to indemnify such customers. Our exposure under these indemnification provisions is frequently limited to the total amount paid by our customer under the agreement. However, certain agreements include indemnification provisions that could potentially expose us to losses in excess of the amount received under the agreement. Any of these events, including claims for indemnification, could seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition to our own direct sales force, we rely on distributors, systems integrators and value-added resellers to sell our products, and our failure to effectively develop, manage or prevent disruptions to our distribution channels and the processes and procedures that support them could cause a reduction in the number of customers of our products. Our future success is highly dependent upon maintaining our relationships with distributors, systems integrators and value-added resellers and establishing additional sales channel relationships. We anticipate that sales of our products to a limited number of channel partners will continue to account for a material portion of our total product revenue for the foreseeable future. We provide our channel partners with specific training and programs to assist them in selling our products, but these steps may not be effective. In addition, our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services. If we are unable to develop and maintain effective sales incentive programs for our channel partners, we may not be able to incentivize these partners to sell our products to customers. These partners may have incentives to promote our competitors products to the detriment of our own or may cease selling our products altogether. One of our channel partners could elect to consolidate or enter into a strategic partnership with one of our competitors, which could reduce or eliminate our future opportunities with that channel partner. Our agreements with our channel partners may generally be terminated for any reason by either party with advance notice. We may be unable to retain these channel partners or secure additional or replacement channel partners. The loss of one or more of our significant channel partners requires extensive training, and any new or expanded relationship with a channel partner may take several months or more to achieve productivity. Where we rely on the channel partners for sales of our products, we may have little or no contact with the ultimate users of our products that purchase through such channel partners, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our products, service ongoing end-customer requirements, estimate end-customer demand and respond to evolving end-customer needs. In addition, our channel partner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresent the functionality of our products or services to customers, fail to comply with their contractual obligations or violate laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other applicable anti-corruption laws or our corporate policies. If we fail to effectively manage our existing sales channels, or if our channel partners are unsuccessful in fulfilling the orders for our products, if we are unable 28 to enter into arrangements with, and retain a sufficient number of, high-quality channel partners in each of the regions in which we sell products and keep them motivated to sell our products, our ability to sell our products and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be harmed. A portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. We anticipate increasing our sales efforts to U.S. and foreign, federal, state and local governmental customers in the future. Sales to government entities are subject to a number of risks. Selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that these efforts will generate a sale. The substantial majority of our sales to date to government entities have been made indirectly through our channel partners. Government certification requirements for products like ours may change and, in doing so, restrict our ability to sell into the government sector until we have attained revised certifications. Government demand and payment for our products and services may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products and services. Government entities may have statutory, contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default. Selling to government entities requires us to comply with various regulations that are not applicable to sales to non-government entities, including regulations that may relate to pricing, prohibitions against use of certain foreign components in our products and services, anti-corruption and other matters. The U.S. government may require certain products that it purchases to be manufactured in, or may require that products it purchases contain a certain threshold of domestic origin components from, the U.S. and other relatively high-cost manufacturing locations, and we may not manufacture all products in locations that meet these requirements. Complying with these regulations may also require us to put in place