Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in the sections entitled Risk Factors and this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities and the effects of competition. Forward-looking statements include statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, seeks, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks in greater detail in Risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-Q. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. You should read this Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. In this Form 10-Q, we, us and our refer to TeleNav, Inc. and its subsidiaries. We operate on a fiscal year ending June 30 and refer to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 as fiscal 2011 and the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012 as fiscal 2012. Overview Our mission is to make peoples lives easier, less stressful, fun, and more productive when they are on the go. Our personalized navigation services get you and get you there and help on-the-go people make daily decisions about where to go, how to get there, what to do, and even when to goand we make it possible across mobile devices, wireless carriers, connected cars, mobile applications and enterprises, both domestically and abroad. In the three months ended September 30, 2011, we had a monthly average of 26.0 million paying end users. In addition to paying end users, as of September 30, 2011 we had in excess of 1.5 million users of our freemium offerings. As a leading provider of personalized navigation and location based services, or LBS, we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on growing market opportunities to reach new customers and serve more people in more places with features such as location based search, voice-guided navigation and real-time traffic. By using the most integral tools of their daily lives, their mobile phones, vehicles and computers, end user consumers can access our personalized navigation services and LBS almost anytime and anywherein both personal and professional settings. End users, wireless carriers, automobile manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, advertisers and agencies, and enterprises are our customers. We generate revenue from recurring service subscriptions, fixed fee arrangement, software licenses, premium services, mobile advertising and local commerce. End users through recurring subscriptions for our services are generally billed for our services through their wireless carrier. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on several different revenue models. We also derive revenue from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in automotive navigation applications, as well as through premium services sold to end users and mobile advertising sold to advertisers and advertising agencies. Through our hosted service delivery model, we provide our solutions to end users and customers through the networks of leading wireless carriers in the United States, including AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and United States Cellular Corporation, or U.S. Cellular, through certain carriers in other countries, as well as automobile manufacturers such as Ford and OEMs such as Delphi Automotive Systems LLC, or Delphi. Our flexible and proprietary platform enables us to efficiently reach and retain tens of millions of end users, across more than 1,200 types of mobile phones, all major mobile phone operating systems and a broad range of wireless network protocols. This platform provides data and analytics to create more personalized experiences for mobile applications, location based advertising and customer lifecycle management 15 Table of Contents Key components of our results of operations Sources of revenue We primarily derive our revenue from our wireless carrier customers for their end users subscriptions to our LBS, as well as from activation fees for certain of our services. Our wireless carrier customers pay us based on several different revenue models, including (1) a monthly subscription fee per end user, (2) a fixed annual fee for any number of subscribers (up to specified thresholds) receiving our services as part of bundles with other voice and data services or (3) a revenue sharing arrangement that may include a minimum fee per end user, or (4) based on usage or other basis. Certain of our contracts provide our wireless carrier customers with discounts based on the number of end users paying for our services in a given month. In general, our wireless carrier customers pay us a lower monthly fee per end user if an end user subscribes to our LBS as part of a bundle of mobile data or voice services than if an end user subscribes to our LBS on a standalone basis. We also offer our applications directly to end users through application stores such as the Apple App store and Android Marketplace. In addition, we derive revenue from the delivery of customized software and royalties from the distribution of this customized software in certain automotive navigation applications. In the future, we may have other revenue models. For example, we recently implemented revenue models based on free versions of our services which can generate fees for advertising supported arrangements, and upgrades to more premium versions for a fee. Our wireless carrier customers are responsible for billing and collecting the fees they charge their subscribers for the right to use our LBS. With respect to Sprint, we receive a guaranteed annual fixed fee from Sprint for navigation applications provided to subscribers in bundles with other Sprint services. The annual fee changes from year to year over the contract period and limits the maximum number of subscribers covered under such fee in a given year. Sprint generally pays us these annual fees in advance. When we are paid on a revenue sharing basis with our wireless carrier customers, the amount we receive varies depending on several factors, including the revenue share rate negotiated with the wireless carrier customer, the price charged to the subscriber by the wireless carrier customer, the specific sales channel of the wireless carrier customer in which the service is offered and the features and capability of the service. As a result of these factors, the amount we receive for a subscriber may vary considerably and is subject to change over time. In addition, the amount we are paid per end user in our revenue sharing arrangements may also vary depending upon the metric used to determine the amount of the payment, including the number of end users at any time during a month, the average monthly paying end users, the number and timing of end user billing cycles and end user activity. Although our wireless carrier customers generally have sole discretion about how to price our LBS to their subscribers, our revenue sharing arrangements generally include monthly minimum fees per end user. To a much lesser extent, we also sell our services directly to consumers through our website and through application stores. In September 2010, we amended our agreement with Sprint, which changed the way in which we receive revenue from the majority of the services we provide to Sprints subscribers. Rather than receiving a fee per subscriber per month, we agreed to receive a guaranteed annual fixed fee from Sprint for navigation applications provided to subscribers in bundles with other Sprint services. The annual fee changes from year to year over the contract period and limits the maximum number of subscribers covered under such fee in a given year. Sprint generally pays us these annual fees in advance. In return, Sprint agreed that our right to be Sprints preferred supplier of navigation applications would be broadened and our preferred supplier rights are extended from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2012. Sprint may terminate our agreement for any reason, beginning June 30, 2012, by providing notice at least 30 business days prior to termination. We and Sprint also agreed that Sprint branded navigation services offered as part of a bundled offering will transition to TeleNav branded navigation services over time. In addition, bundle opportunities are expanded and may include Sprints prepaid subscriber base in the future. We recognize revenue for the aggregate annual fees monthly on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement. Our portion of the revenue sharing arrangements for monthly recurring charge navigation subscribers, enterprise LBS subscribers and revenue generated from mobile commerce services was increased under the amendment and will also apply to revenue generated from other premium services we may provide to bundled and other subscribers during the term of the agreement. Over time, we anticipate that our amended agreement with Sprint will result in anticipated increases in the number of Sprint bundle subscribers with access to our services and a significant reduction in revenue from Sprint for bundled basic navigation services compared to the quarters prior to implementation of the amendment. Although we are entitled to receive a greater share of revenue from enterprise LBS, mobile commerce and premium navigation services than we were previously, we may not be able to realize these benefits in the short term or at all. We cannot predict the ultimate financial impact of our amended agreement with Sprint. In January 2011, we entered into an amendment to our agreement with AT&T, one of our wireless carrier customers whose payments to us represent a substantial portion of our revenue. This amendment extended our existing agreement with AT&T through March 2013 and provided that we will continue to be the exclusive provider of white label GPS navigation services to AT&T. The amendment did not impact our revenue for fiscal 2011 and our amended agreement with AT&T retained the prior terms, including the fee per subscriber per month model. AT&T is not required to offer our LBS. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on AT&T for a material portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future . 16 Table of Contents In March 2011, we entered into amendments to our agreement with Ford, to which we provide an embedded on-board and off-board navigation solution. Our current on-board SD card-based navigation system is used to provide an easily updateable option compared to CD, DVD or hard-drive-based systems, and this system can also be extended globally to include regional and local information such as languages, guidance and maps. We also provide an off-board, connected navigation solution to Ford using our GPS navigation software to deliver real-time information to help drivers search, find and reach destinations. While we continue to refine and improve our on-board and off-board navigation solutions, we are also working on producing a hybrid of the best features of both of those solutions to provide more personalized navigation and location based services to all of our automotive customers. The amendments modified the nature of certain of our obligations under our original agreement, and provided for additional payments to us. As a result of these modifications, we now recognize revenue from customized software upon delivery to, and acceptance by, Ford of our on-board navigation solutions, and we recognize royalty revenue earned from the distribution of our customized software in vehicles as the vehicles are produced. In addition, we recognize third party content and related costs of revenue when revenue is recognized. Subscription fees from our wireless carrier customers represented a substantial majority of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010. Sprint and AT&T represented 39% and 38% of our revenue, respectively, in the three months ended September 30, 2011, and 51% and 36% of our revenue, respectively, in the three months ended September 30, 2010. Subscription fee revenue from our GPS Navigator service declined from the three months ended September 30, 2010 to the three months ended September 30, 2011, primarily due to the transition to a fixed annual fee with Sprint. Revenue from our automotive navigation solutions, enterprise LBS (sometimes referred to as MRM), mobile advertising and commerce and premium LBS represented 16% and 6% of our revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. GPS Navigator is our flagship voice guided, real time, turn by turn, mobile navigation service. Our technology also powers automotive navigation services that provide accurate, easy to use LBS to drivers, including search, POI and traffic services. Our enterprise LBS solutions allow enterprises to monitor and manage mobile workforces and assets by using our LBS platform to track job status and the location of workers, field assets and equipment. We are developing other LBS solutions with new business models and distribution channels in our current LBS market and adjacent markets. These solutions include tablet devices, location based mobile advertising and commerce services and premium LBS. While we have already introduced certain components or initial versions of several of these LBS solutions, the scope and timing of broader and more commercially viable offerings is uncertain. The ultimate scope and timing of any future releases are dependent on many factors, including adoption by wireless carrier customers, automobile manufacturers and OEMs of navigation solutions; end user adoption and preferences; the quality, features and timing of our product offerings; the impact of competition; and market acceptance of mobile advertising and social networking. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to cover the costs of these development efforts for at least the next 12 months. In the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, we generated 95% and 97% of our revenue, respectively, in the United States. In absolute dollars, revenue from our international operations increased in the three months ended September 30, 2011. We are pursuing expansion opportunities with wireless carriers in other countries and therefore expect international revenue to increase in absolute dollars over the longer term. Cost of revenue Our cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of the third party content, such as map, point of interest, or POI, traffic, gas price and weather data and voice recognition technology that we use in providing our LBS. Our cost of revenue also includes expenses associated with data center operations, customer support, the amortization of capitalized software, recognition of deferred development costs on specific projects and stock-based compensation. The largest component of our cost of revenue is the fees we pay to providers of map and POI data, TomTom Maps and NAVTEQ. We have long term agreements with TomTom Maps and NAVTEQ pursuant to which we pay royalties according to a variety of different fee schedules, including on a per use basis, on a per end user per month basis and on a fixed fee basis for certain navigation offerings. We primarily provide customer support through a third party provider to whom we provide training and assistance with problem resolution. We use three outsourced, hosted data centers to provide our services and industry standard hardware to provide our LBS. We generally offer to our wireless carrier customers and generally maintain at least 99.9% uptime every month, excluding designated periods of maintenance. Our internal targets for service uptime are even higher. We have in the past, and may in the future, not achieve our targets for service availability and may incur penalties for failure to meet contractual service availability requirements, including loss of a portion of subscriber fees for the month or termination of our wireless carrier customer agreement. We expect that our cost of revenue will increase in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue as the number of our end users increases, including those through bundled or freemium offerings, average use of our services by end users increases and additional operating costs and depreciation associated with our planned data center capacity and redundancy increases, as well as increased amortization and recognition of deferred capitalized software development costs. In addition, we anticipate that cost of revenue will increase over time as we continue to enhance the richness of the content offered by our products and if we increase the level of our revenue from automotive navigation solutions. 17 Table of Contents In September 2010, we entered into an amendment to our TomTom Maps agreement, or the TomTom Maps Amendment. The terms of the TomTom Maps Amendment were retroactively effective as of August 1, 2010 and changed the fee structure for map and POI data we use to provide its services for Sprints bundled offerings. The material impact of the TomTom Maps Amendment was to better align the manner in which we pay fees to TomTom Maps with the manner in which we receive revenue from Sprint. Pursuant to the TomTom Maps Amendment, we pay TomTom Maps a percentage of the fees earned from Sprint for basic navigation services and gross advertising and mobile commerce revenue and a flat monthly fee per subscriber for premium navigation services. We also pay TomTom Maps certain guaranteed minimum payments for such services. Previously, we paid TomTom Maps a specific fee per subscriber or a per transaction fee for our Sprint bundled offerings. The expiration of the license period for navigation services provided by TomTom Maps for Sprints bundled offerings has been changed from July 1, 2014 to the earlier of December 31, 2012 or the date of termination of our agreement with Sprint with respect to those bundled services. These changes to our TomTom Maps agreement reduce in part the impact on our cost of revenue of the increase in the number of Sprint bundle subscribers without offsetting increases in revenue. However, we expect that our cost of revenue will increase in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue as the number of our end users increases, average usage of our services by end users increases and from amortization and depreciation expense associated with planned data center capacity and redundancy increases, as well as increased amortization of capitalized software development costs. In addition, we anticipate that cost of revenue will increase over time as we continue to enhance the richness of the content offered by our products and if we increase the level of our revenue from automotive navigation solutions. Operating expenses We classify our operating expenses into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. Our operating expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, which include salaries, bonuses, payroll taxes, employee benefit costs and stock-based compensation expense. Other expenses include marketing program costs, facilities, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional service fees. We allocate stock-based compensation expense resulting from the amortization of the fair value of stock-based awards granted, based on the department in which the award holder works. We allocate overhead, such as rent and depreciation, to each expense category based on headcount. Our operating expenses increased in absolute dollars in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011 as we became a public company and built our infrastructure and added employees across all categories to support our growth, develop new services and products, and expand into international markets. We expect our operating expenses to continue to increase in fiscal 2012 as we continue in these endeavors. Research and development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our development employees and use of outside consultants. We have focused our research and development efforts on improving the ease of use and functionality of our existing services, as well as developing new service and product offerings in our existing markets and in new markets. The majority of our research and development employees are located in our development centers in China and, as a result, a substantial portion of our research and development expense is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates, notably the Chinese renminbi, or RMB. Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our sales and marketing staff, commissions earned by our sales personnel and the cost of marketing programs and advertising. As we primarily rely on our wireless carrier customers to market and promote our services to their subscribers, our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of the cost of supporting our wireless carrier customers and attracting new wireless carrier customers to offer our LBS. We cooperate with our wireless carrier customers in marketing our LBS solutions to their subscribers by preparing marketing materials and working with them on promotional campaigns. We also promote our service offerings through a variety of other programs and online advertisements. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel, legal, audit and tax consulting and other professional services and corporate expenses. Other income, net . Other income, net consists primarily of interest we earn on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Provision for income taxes . Our provision for income taxes primarily consists of corporate income taxes related to profits earned from our LBS in the United States. We expect our effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 to be approximately 37% as a result of the concentration of earnings in the United States. Our effective tax rate could be reduced if our international revenue substantially increases as a percentage of revenue, due to the lower corporate tax rates available in certain countries outside the United States and the availability of net operating loss carryforwards in those countries. In addition, in October 2011 we received a favorable tax ruling from the State of California with respect to our method for determining our California income tax liability that will more likely than not result in a reduction of our fiscal 2011 tax liability through the recovery of previous estimated tax payments made. We will recognize the discrete benefit related to this ruling during the second quarter of fiscal 2012. 18 Table of Contents Critical accounting policies and estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require our judgment in its application. In other cases, our judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting policies that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. In many instances, we could reasonably use different accounting estimates, and in some instances changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2011. Results of operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, as well as a percentage that each line item represents of our revenue for those periods. The additional key metrics presented are used in addition to the financial measures reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of income data to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets and measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. The period to period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of financial results to be achieved in future periods. Three Months Ended September 30, Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income Data 2011 2010 (in thousands) Revenue $ 52,732 $ 51,100 Cost of revenue 10,316 8,852 Gross profit 42,416 42,248 Operating expenses: Research and development 16,479 13,027 Sales and marketing 7,467 4,726 General and administrative 6,250 3,746 Total operating expenses 30,196 21,499 Income from operations 12,220 20,749 Other income, net 492 197 Income before provision for income taxes 12,712 20,946 Provision for income taxes 4,528 8,588 Net income $ 8,184 $ 12,358 Three Months Ended September 30, 2011 2010 (as a percentage of revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 20 17 Gross profit 80 83 Operating expenses: Research and development 31 25 Sales and marketing 14 9 General and administrative 12 8 Total operating expenses 57 42 Income from operations 23 41 Other income, net 1 Income before provision for income taxes 24 41 Provision for income taxes 8 17 Net income 16 % 24 % Three Months Ended September 30, 2011 2010 Additional Key Metrics Average monthly paying end users (in millions) 26.0 17.7 19 Table of Contents Comparison of the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010 Revenue . Revenue increased 3% to $52.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 from $51.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2010. The increase was due to increased revenue from automotive navigation solutions we provide for Ford vehicles, as well as growth in end users of AT&T Navigator and Your Navigator Deluxe by U.S. Cellular, who pay monthly subscription fees, and was partially offset by a decrease in revenue from Sprint bundle users resulting from our September 2010 transition away from a per end user per month fee with Sprint to a fixed annual fee, as described above. Average monthly paying end users increased to 26.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011 from 17.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010, primarily resulting from the continued adoption of Sprints Simply Everything and Everything Data plans which include our LBS navigation application. The majority of our end users receive access to our navigation application through bundled offerings, for which we are paid by the carrier that offers such bundles. We also have end users that pay a fee for our navigation offerings through either a monthly or annual subscription to our turn-by-turn navigation service, including users who pay to upgrade to our premium services. In addition to paying end users, as of September 30, 2011 we had in excess of 1.5 million users of our freemium offerings, which include free turn-by-turn navigation for certain Android platforms and a free visual navigation application for the iPhone. While we do not collect revenue from these free basic navigation services, we offer a path to upgrade to premium paid services, and we also leverage these customers to drive mobile advertising and commerce revenue. In the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, revenue from Sprint represented 39% and 51% of our revenue, respectively, and revenue from AT&T represented 38% and 36% of our revenue, respectively. No other wireless carrier or other customer represented more than 10% of our revenue in either period. We primarily sell our services in the United States. In the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, revenue derived from U.S. sources represented 95% and 97% of our revenue, respectively. Cost of revenue . Our cost of revenue increased 17% to $10.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 from $8.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2010. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2011 increased to 20% from 17% in the three months ended September 30, 2010. Cost of revenue increased in absolute dollars and at a higher rate than the 3% increase in revenue for the comparable period primarily as a result of the third party content and related costs associated with the on-board navigation revenue from Ford, which generally has higher associated third party content costs than our navigation offerings through wireless carriers. The majority of the increase in cost of revenue in absolute dollars in the three months ended September 30, 2011 was due to a 14% increase in third party content costs, as well as an increase in the recognition of deferred software development costs expensed in connection with revenue from Ford, and increased customer support and data center costs. Gross profit . Our gross profit increased to $42.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 from $42.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2010. Our gross margin decreased to 80% in the three months ended September 30, 2011 from 83% in the three months ended September 30, 2010. The decrease in gross margin was due to lower revenues from Sprint and the increased proportion of revenue contributed from our on-board navigation solutions provided to Ford, which generally have higher associated content costs and resulting lower gross margins than our LBS services provided to our wireless carrier customers. We expect our gross margin to decline as the percentage of our revenue from automotive offering increases, and to decline as a result of increased competition, especially from freemium offerings. Research and development . Our research and development expenses increased 26% to $16.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 from $13.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2010. The increase was primarily due to the costs associated with increased compensation and benefits for our existing employees and increased headcount to enhance the functionality of our services and develop new offerings. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses increased to 31% in the three months ended September 30, 2011 from 25% in the three months ended September 30, 2010. The total number of research and development personnel increased 6% to 767 at September 30, 2011 from 722 at September 30, 2010. We believe that as we continue to invest in expanding the LBS we offer, establish relationships with new wireless carrier customers and develop new services and products, revenue from those investments and development efforts will lag the related research and development expenses. We expect that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we continue to enhance and expand the services and products we offer. 20 Table of Contents Sales and marketing . Our sales and marketing expenses increased 58% to $7.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 from $4.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2010. The increase was primarily due to the costs associated with increased headcount to strengthen and diversify our product offerings, including automotive navigation solutions, premium services and advertising. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses increased to 14% in the three months ended September 30, 2011 from 9% in the three months ended September 30, 2010. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars. General and administrative . Our general and administrative expenses increased 67% to $6.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 from $3.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2010. The increase was primarily due to increased legal fees incurred in connection with intellectual property claims and, to a lesser extent, costs associated with increased headcount. The total number of general and administrative personnel increased 25%, to 76 at September 30, 2011 from 61 at September 30, 2010. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses increased to 12% in the three months ended September 30, 2011 from 8% in the three months ended September 30, 2010. Other income, net . Our other income, net was $492,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2011 and $197,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2010. The change was primarily due to increased interest income due to higher cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments balances. Provision for income taxes . Our provision for income taxes decreased to $4.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 from $8.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2010. Our effective tax rate was 36% in the three months ended September 30, 2011 compared to 41% in the three months ended September 30, 2010. The decrease in our effective tax rate is due to favorable changes in California tax law regarding apportioning income to the state, which resulted in a reduction in our expected California state taxes. We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in accordance with authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. As of September 30, 2011 and June 30, 2011, our cumulative unrecognized tax benefits were $3.5 million and $4.5 million, respectively. Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at September 30, 2011 is $2.7 million that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our provision for income taxes. We had $103,000 and $157,000 accrued for the payment of interest and penalties at September 30, 2011 and June 30, 2011, respectively. We file income tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, California, various states and foreign tax jurisdictions in which we have subsidiaries. In the three months ended September 30, 2011, the IRS concluded its audit of our fiscal 2009 through 2010 tax returns, which resulted in no adjustments having a material impact on our financial statements. The statute of limitations remains open for fiscal 2011 through 2012 in the U.S., for fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2012 in state jurisdictions, and for fiscal 2006 through 2012 in foreign jurisdictions. Fiscal years outside the normal statute of limitations remain open to audit by tax authorities due to tax attributes generated in those early years which have been carried forward and may be audited in subsequent years when utilized. Liquidity and capital resources The following table sets forth the major sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents for each of the periods set forth below: Three Months Ended September 30, 2011 2010 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,036 $ 20,248 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 11,739 (82,980 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (6,643 ) 44 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (44 ) (89 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 8,088 $ (62,777 ) At September 30, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $193.2 million, which primarily consisted of money market mutual funds, asset-backed security, certificates of deposit, municipal securities, corporate bonds, and commercial paper held by well-capitalized financial institutions. 21 Table of Contents Our accounts receivable are heavily concentrated in a small number of customers. As of September 30, 2011, our accounts receivable balance was $21.0 million, of which AT&T and Ford represented 48% and 11%, respectively. Our accounts receivable balance due from Sprint represented less than 10% of total accounts receivable as of September 30, 2011 and will fluctuate based upon the timing of invoicing and payment under Sprints fixed annual fee arrangement. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of expenditures to support development efforts, the expansion of research and development and sales and marketing activities and headcount, the introduction of our new and enhanced service and product offerings and the growth in our end user base. We believe our cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our financial obligations through at least the next 12 months. However, we may experience lower than expected cash generated from operating activities, revenue that is lower than we anticipate, or greater than expected cost of revenue or operating expenses. Our revenue and operating results could be lower than we anticipate if, among other reasons, our wireless carrier customers, two of which we are substantially dependent upon for a large portion of our revenue, were to limit or terminate our relationships with them. In the future, we may acquire businesses or technologies or license technologies from third parties, and we may decide to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing to the extent we believe this is necessary to successfully complete these acquisitions or license these technologies. However, additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we make such determinations, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity and cash position. Net cash provided by operating activities . Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.0 million and $20.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Cash provided by or used in operating activities has historically been affected by growth in our end user base and increases in our operating costs, which are primarily due to increased headcount and royalty payments for portions of the content provided in our services. In the three months ended September 30, 2011, cash provided by operating activities was provided principally by net income of $8.2 million, non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization of $2.2 million, and stock-based compensation of $1.2 million, partially offset by $9.1 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. In the three months ended September 30, 2010, cash provided by operating activities was provided principally by net income of $12.4 million, non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization of $1.9 million, stock-based compensation of $852,000 and a write-off of capitalized software of $691,000, and $4.4 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities . We generated net cash from investing activities of $11.7 million and used net cash of $(83.0) million during the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Cash provided by or used in investing activities has historically been affected by purchases, sales and maturities of short-term investments, purchases of property and equipment and internal software development costs. We expect to increase our purchases of property and equipment in future periods as we continue to invest in the infrastructure needed to operate our services for an increasing end user base, as well as in equipment and facilities for our growing worldwide employee base as we expand our business. In the three months ended September 30, 2011, cash provided by investing activities was provided principally from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $16.9 million, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $2.8 million and acquisition costs of $1.8 million, net of cash acquired. In the three months ended September 30, 2010, cash used in investing activities was used principally for purchases of short-term investments of $81.1 million and purchases of property and equipment of $1.5 million. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities . During the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, we (used) generated cash in our financing activities of $(6.6) million and $44,000, respectively, due to repurchases of our outstanding stock and proceeds from the exercise of stock options for our common stock. In the three months ended September 30, 2011 cash, was used to repurchase outstanding stock under our stock repurchase program whereby we utilized $7.9 million of cash to repurchase 877,100 shares of our common stock at an average purchase price of $9.04 per share, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options. In the three months ended September 30, 2010, cash was provided by $44,000 of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Off-balance sheet arrangements We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies As of September 30, 2011, we had an aggregate of $56.4 million of future minimum noncancelable financial commitments primarily related to office space under noncancelable operating leases and license fees due to certain of our third party content providers, regardless of usage level. The aggregate of $56.4 million of future minimum commitments were comprised of $17.5 million due in fiscal 2012; $10.1 million due in fiscal 2013; $6.2 million due in fiscal 2014; $4.2 million due in fiscal 2015; $4.0 million due in fiscal 2016, and $14.4 million due thereafter. 22 Table of Contents