Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 below, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Form 10-K, including statements regarding our future financial position, business strategy and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, should, plan, expect and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy and financial needs. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions described in Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A below, and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including, among other things: health epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic and its variants, and other outbreaks could significantly disrupt our operations; future demand for our products may be lower than anticipated; consumers may choose not to adopt our new product offerings or adopt competing products; the actual price, performance and ease of use of our products may not meet the price, performance and ease of use requirements of consumers; our dependence on certain significant customers; our reliance on a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers; new cyber threats may challenge the effectiveness or threaten the security of our products; the collaboration with Verisure may not be successful; we may overestimate our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our intellectual property; our efforts to retain key personnel and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel with technical expertise may not be successful; and the impact and timing of the restructuring plan and our business strategies and development plans may not be successful. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based on information available to us as of the date hereof, such information may be limited or incomplete, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Summary of Risk Factors Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our common stock speculative or risky. This summary does not address all of the risks that we face. Additional discussion of the risks summarized in this risk factor summary, and other risks that we face, can be found below under the heading Item 1A Risk Factors in Part I of this Form 10-K and should be carefully considered, together with other information in this Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. The effects of health epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic and its variants, could have an adverse impact on our business, operations and the markets and communities in which we, our partners and customers operate. We obtain several key components from limited or sole sources, and if these sources fail to satisfy our supply requirements or we are unable to properly manage our supply requirements with our third-party manufacturers, we may lose sales and experience increased component costs. We depend on a limited number of third-party manufacturers for substantially all of our manufacturing needs. If these third-party manufacturers experience any delay, disruption, or quality control problems in their operations, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we could lose market share and our brand may suffer. If disruptions in our transportation network occur or our shipping costs substantially increase, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we may be unable to sell or timely deliver our products, and our operating expenses could increase. 3 Table of Contents If we lose the services of key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. We expect our results of operations to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. If we fail to continue to introduce or acquire new products or services that achieve broad market acceptance on a timely basis, or if our products or services are not adopted as expected, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain revenue and gross margin. We may need additional financing to meet our future long-term capital requirements and may be unable to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms or at all. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, and to be competitive we may be required to lower our prices or increase our sales and marketing expenses, which could result in reduced margins and loss of market share. We entered into an asset purchase agreement (the Asset Purchase Agreement) and supply agreement (the Supply Agreement) with Verisure Srl (Verisure) that gives Verisure exclusive marketing and distribution rights for our products in Europe as well as the ability to sell our products through their direct channel globally. We cannot provide assurance that the arrangement with Verisure will continue to be a successful collaboration. We are dependent on information technology systems, infrastructure and data. System security risks, breaches of data protection, cyber-attacks, and erroneous or non-malicious actions or failures to act by our employees or others with authorized access to our networks could disrupt our products, services, internal operations, or information technology systems, and could lead to theft of our intellectual property, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation, and cause our stock price to decline significantly. Our future success depends on our ability to increase sales of our paid subscription services. Interruptions with the cloud-based systems that we use in our operations provided by an affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc. ("Amazon"), which is also one of our primary competitors, may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our current and future products may experience quality problems, including defects or errors, from time to time that can result in adverse publicity, product recalls, litigation, regulatory proceedings, and warranty claims resulting in significant direct or indirect costs, decreased revenue, and operating margin, and harm to our brand. We rely on a limited number of traditional and online retailers and wholesale distributors for a substantial portion of our sales, and our revenue could decline if they refuse to pay our requested prices or reduce their level of purchases or if there is significant consolidation in our sales channels, which results in fewer sales channels for our products. Item 1. Business Overview Arlo Technologies, Inc. (we, Arlo or the Company) combines an intelligent cloud infrastructure and mobile app with a variety of smart connected devices that is transforming the way people experience the connected lifestyle. Arlos deep expertise in product design, wireless connectivity, cloud infrastructure and cutting-edge AI capabilities focuses on delivering a seamless, smart home experience for Arlo users that is easy to setup and interact with 4 Table of Contents every day. Our cloud-based platform provides users with visibility, insight and a powerful means to help protect and connect in real-time with the people and things that matter most, from any location with a Wi-Fi or a cellular connection. To date, we have launched several categories of award-winning smart connected devices, including wired and wire-free smart Wi-Fi and LTE-enabled cameras, audio and video doorbells, and floodlight cameras. In addition, Arlos broad compatibility allows the platform to seamlessly integrate with third-party internet-of-things (IoT) products and protocols, such as Amazon Alexa, Apple HomeKit, Apple TV, Google Assistant, IFTTT, Stringify and Samsung SmartThings. Since the launch of our first product in December 2014, we have shipped over 22.9 million smart connected devices, and, as of December 31, 2021, our smart platform had approximately 6.1 million cumulative registered accounts across more than 100 countries around the world. We plan to continue to introduce new smart connected devices to the Arlo platform both in cameras and new categories, increase the number of registered accounts on our platform, keep them highly engaged through our mobile app and generate incremental recurring revenue by offering them paid subscription services. Market Our total addressable market consists of individuals and business owners who use connected devices to enhance their lives. Outside of the home, we have seen adoption of our cellular-enabled products in a variety of use cases, such as neighborhood watch, construction site monitoring, wildlife and outdoor trail surveillance and event monitoring. We believe the small business, government and direct home monitoring channels provide growth areas for us in addition to our retail and e-commerce presence. In early 2020, we launched Arlo SmartCloud ("Arlo Smart") a Software as a Service (SaaS) solution to deliver scalable security cloud services for business. With Arlo SmartCloud, we are extending our platform to partners to help innovate and deploy new opportunities beyond our own camera ecosystem. In the third quarter of 2021, we introduced Arlo Secure, our new service plan with coverage for unlimited cameras and an enhanced Emergency Response solution. Arlo Secure replaced Arlo Smart, our previous service plan. Existing Arlo Smart customers are entitled to either retain their existing plans or upgrade to the new Arlo Secure plans of their choosing. We believe we are well-positioned to extend our current reach to the broader connected lifestyle market both within and beyond the home as we continue to launch new products and services within our connected lifestyle platform. Products Smart Connected Devices Released in 2021 Arlo Essential Indoor Camera , released in the first quarter of 2021, features 1080p HD video with enhanced night vision that allows users to capture important details day or night, a 130-degree diagonal field-of-view, motion and audio protection and full duplex audio for two-way conversations. The Arlo Essential Indoor Cameras unique automated privacy shield is a reassuring feature designed to ease privacy concerns around having a security camera indoors. When the privacy shield is in the disarm mode, recording, motion and audio detection is disabled and wont be enabled until the shield is opened by the user via the Arlo app. Users can also signal the privacy shield to open automatically and begin recording by starting a live stream or changing the camera to arm mode. This gives users the power to decide when their camera is monitoring a room and recording video/audio, and when it is not. Arlo Essential Indoor Camera also has built-in siren and works compatibly with Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant and IFTTT for easy interaction, automation and control. Arlo Go 2 LTE/Wi-Fi Security Camera , released in the fourth quarter of 2021, delivers smarter security for remote or hard-to-access locations and enables LTE and Wi-Fi connectivity for monitoring vacation homes, construction sites, commercial properties, trails and more. Arlo Go 2 LTE/Wi-Fi Security Camera works with 4G cellular data plan to provide continuous connectivity and uninterrupted security and provides users with 100% wire-free setup, weather-resistant design, a swappable, rechargeable battery and the ability to connect to Wi-Fi when in range. Users can view and record 1080p full HD video day and night, as well as capture important details with color night vision thanks to an integrated spotlight. The two-way, full-duplex audio ensures clear communication with visitors, while a built-in siren can be triggered remotely or automatically to ward off intruders. Arlo Go 2 is also equipped with GPS positioning to track the cameras whereabouts, allowing users to locate multiple devices across an expansive area, or in the event of theft. 5 Table of Contents Released in Prior Years Arlo Q and Arlo Q Plus , released in the fourth quarter of 2015, bring Arlos performance and design to an indoor wired solution that allows users to easily monitor their surroundings with 1080p HD video quality. With two-way audio communication, users cannot only watch but also interact with their children, pets or other guests in their home or business. Arlo Q and Arlo Q Plus also feature optional 24/7 recording on a subscription basis. Arlo Q Plus includes the additional functionality of being powered-over-ethernet, which is common for business environments. Arlo Go , released in the first quarter of 2017, is the worlds first commercially available LTE-enabled wire-free camera and provides untethered mobile security with support by major networks in key markets around the world, including AT&T and Verizon in the United States. Its IP65-rated weather-resistant design, 720p HD video quality, two-way audio and battery-powered operation allow small business owners, construction sites, outdoor enthusiasts and anyone in need of a truly mobile solution to virtually be at any location, anytime, and maintain monitoring capabilities. Arlo Baby , released in the second quarter of 2017, combines performance and convenience with smart features that give added peace of mind for parents and caregivers. With 1080p HD video quality, air quality and temperature sensors, motion and audio detection, and advanced night vision, parents can be alerted to movement and changes in their childs environment, and they can also remotely engage with their child using Arlos two-way audio feature, play music or custom recordings or even turn on Arlo Babys multi-colored night light to soothe their child to sleep. Parents can also easily move Arlo Baby, powered by its rechargeable batteries or by an electrical outlet, to different rooms. Arlo Chime, released in the third quarter of 2018 and designed to plug into any standard wall outlet and pairs with the Arlo Video Doorbell to play a variety of ringtones or act as a siren, and even contains a silent mode for those times when users dont want to be bothered. The Arlo Chime runs on two standard AA batteries which can last up to an entire year based on normal usage and features a weather-resistant exterior finish. For added ease and versatility, users also have the option to connect with their existing door chimes without needing to install any additional hardware or wiring. Arlo Ultra, released in the first quarter of 2019 and designed with advanced 4K high dynamic range ("HDR") video quality with color night vision, wire-free setup, a 180-degree diagonal field-of-view, an integrated spotlight and crystal-clear two-way audio with advanced noise cancellations, Arlo Ultra delivers ultimate peace of mind for anyone looking to monitor their home or business. Users will experience enhanced detail and clarity and are able to zoom in on video clips to uncover details such as license plate and clothing. Arlo Ultra delivers one of the widest viewing angles in the wire-free security camera industry. Ultra is paired with a new Arlo SmartHub that functions as the nucleus of the smart home and engineered with Arlo RF, a proprietary two-way audio frequency technology. Arlo Pro 3, released in the third quarter of 2019 and designed to provide home and small business owners with a high-performance, simple, wire-free security solution, Arlo Pro 3 features 2K resolution with HDR, an integrated spotlight with color night vision and a super-wide 160-degree field of view. Engineered to work indoors or outdoors, Arlo Pro 3 offers advanced image quality for DIY security that anyone can easily install in minutes and monitor from anywhere using the Arlo app. Arlo Pro 3 also includes a new Arlo SmartHub that securely manages network traffic to the camera in addition to enhancing power and Wi-Fi performance for better range and battery life. Arlo Video Doorbell, released in the fourth quarter of 2019 and designed to capture what traditional video doorbells cant, the new smart entry solution boasts an industry-leading vertical field-of-view, allowing users to get a bigger, more precise picture of their front porch. The Arlo Video Doorbell captures footage in a square aspect ratio to allow users to fully view packages on the ground, or visitors from head to toe. It also offers features such as HD resolution image quality along with clear, two-way audio for users to simultaneously see and speak to visitors. Unlike conventional doorbell cameras, the Arlo Video Doorbell delivers direct-to-mobile video calls and personalized alerts when packages, people, vehicles, or animals are detected, allowing for users to quickly reply or take action provided they are an Arlo Smart subscriber or in a trial period. The Arlo Video Doorbell connects to an existing mechanical or digital chime for simple installation and continuous power. 6 Table of Contents Arlo Floodlight Camera, released in the first quarter of 2020 and is the first wire-free floodlight camera on the market. The floodlight camera brings powerful LEDs, an integrated 2K HDR camera, 160-degree field of view, two-way audio, custom lighting configurations and a built-in siren to any home or small business. The floodlight camera can automatically measure the amount of surrounding light to allow for true customization for when the floodlight automatically turns on. The floodlight camera also offers three different light patterns constant, flashing, and pulsating which users can control manually on-demand or via automation rules. Arlo Essential Spotlight, released in the second quarter of 2020 and designed with an industry-leading, 180-degree viewing angle with a square, 1:1 aspect ratio that ensures users can see packages on the ground or visitors from head-to-toe on their mobile devices. Arlo Essential Spotlight features HD video resolution combined with direct-to-mobile video calls, clear, two-way audio, an integrated spotlight with color night vision, built in siren and personalized alerts that allow users to quickly reply to guests or take action. Able to connect directly to Wi-Fi, the latest solution can be powered by its rechargeable battery or be hardwired for continuous charging. Arlo Ultra 2, released in the second quarter of 2020 and designed to deliver an enhanced user experience with improved range, building on advanced features such as 4K video with HDR, an ultra-wide, 180-degree field of view, auto zoom and tracking on moving object with clarity and detail, color night vision allowing you to see video in color rather than traditional black and white, built-in siren that automatically triggered by motion or audio, or manually triggered via the Arlo App and more. Arlo Ultra 2 works with Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, Apple Homekit, and IFTTT for easy interaction, automation and control. Arlo Essential XL Spotlight , released in the third quarter of 2020 and which features an integrated, wire-free, extended-life battery that works for up to one year on one charge, an integrated spotlight with color night vision, HD video, two-way audio, motion detection alerts and a built-in siren. A direct to a Wi-Fi connection enables the Arlo Essential XL Spotlight camera to function as a stand-alone home security solution without the need for a separate Arlo SmartHub or Base Station. Arlo Essential Wire-Free Video Doorbell, released in the third quarter of 2020, features an easy-to-install, wire-free, battery-powered design. Arlos latest front-entry solution which joins a robust ecosystem of home security products and services captures what conventional video doorbells cant. An industry-leading, 180-degree viewing angle with a square, 1:1 aspect ratio ensures users can see packages on the ground or visitors from head-to-toe on their mobile devices. HD video resolution combined with direct-to-mobile video calls, clear, two-way audio and personalized alerts, allow users to quickly reply to guests or take action. Able to connect directly to Wi-Fi, the latest solution can be powered by its rechargeable battery or be hardwired for continuous charging. Arlo Pro 4 Wire-Free Spotlight, released in the fourth quarter of 2020 and designed with weather resistance, wide 160-degree field of view, 2K video resolution with HDR, and six-month battery life. Pro 4 also includes two-way audio, built-in siren, and integrated spotlight. The updated Pro 4 has the ability to connect directly to home Wi-Fi networks without the need for a dedicated Arlo SmartHub or Base Station, which allows the camera to work as a standalone system for easier installation and setup. Arlo Accessories Arlo Charging Accessories are designed to offer additional convenient ways to keep Arlo wire-free cameras up and running even longer. With the Arlo Charging Station, users can charge up to two Arlo Pro, Arlo Pro 2 or Arlo Go batteries with fast-charging technology so there is always a battery ready to go. For those looking to eliminate battery swaps entirely, the mountable and weather-resistant Arlo Solar Panel connects to various Arlo cameras to keep batteries charged with just a few hours of direct sunlight. Arlo Mounts feature innovative designs that allow users to mount their cameras outdoors or indoors, on ceilings or countertops. The Arlo Quadpod is a flexible mount featuring four legs crafted from flexible stainless steel and silicone that allows users to mount their camera even in challenging spots such as tree branches or metal poles. 7 Table of Contents Arlo Skins allow Arlo owners to customize their Arlo cameras to blend into their environments or add a pop of personality. Popular with outdoor enthusiasts, Arlo Camouflage and Ghillie skins are ultraviolet and water-resistant and made of durable silicone material for easy slip-on, slip-off convenience. The Arlo App The Arlo app, available for iOS and Android devices, is designed to provide our users with an easy-to-use, flexible, mobile-first experience that connects our users to the people and things that matter most to them. Our proprietary AI-based capabilities generate relevant and actionable real-time notifications, which enable users to live stream video or contact emergency services through the app notifications when Arlo devices detect motion or sound. The Arlo app also enables users to view their library of video clips and share them via text, email or social networks, and varies depending on the types of service plans that the user has. The app has four main screens: devices, library, mode, and setting: The Devices screen provides a quick at-a-glance dashboard of the users devices linked to their account, with valuable status icons like device battery life, and actionable buttons to live stream from their Arlo camera, call e911, activate a siren, or access the devices settings. The Library screen delivers a timeline view of recorded video clips in the users Arlo Smart account, with additional tagging of clips that contain subject matter identified by Arlo Smarts AI- and CV-based object detection, such as person, package, vehicle or even animal. The Mode screen enables users to quickly Arm or Disarm their Arlo system. The Settings screen provides access to additional device or account level information and features, including customization of Arlo Smart notifications and detection capabilities. Services In the third quarter of 2021, we introduced Arlo Secure, our new service plan with coverage for unlimited cameras and an enhanced Emergency Response solution. Arlo Secure replaced Arlo Smart, our previous service plan. Existing Arlo Smart customers are entitled to either retain their existing plans or upgrade to the new Arlo Secure plan of their choosing. The premium services boast support for unlimited household security devices, along with advanced AI object detection, and smarter, more interactive notifications. Additionally, the new 24/7, one-touch Emergency Response is available with the Secure Plus plan, enabling Arlo users to directly dispatch first responders during an emergency for quicker action. A three-month free trial period of Arlo Secure is provided with various Arlo camera and doorbell products. The features of the Arlo Secure subscriptions include: Emergency Response (Arlo Secure Plus) With one touch, dispatch fire, police, or medical responders to the cameras location. If directed by the user, Arlos Emergency Response team can also provide critical location information to responders en route to better prepare them, such as gate codes, medical conditions of family members, and pet details. 2K (Arlo Secure) and 4K (Arlo Secure Plus) Cloud-based Video Recording View 30 days of recordings securely stored on Arlos SmartCloud platform, for ultimate peace of mind and protection even if the device is damaged or stolen in a break-in, storm or other physical incident. Unlimited Cameras Users can enjoy Arlo Secure service for all cameras in their home with one all-encompassing plan. Add new Arlo cameras for no additional charge. Advanced Object Detectio n Arlo processes and filters 50 million events each day through advanced object detection backed by visual artificial intelligence, allowing for better recognition of people, packages, vehicles, and animals to add key context to notifications and reduce unwanted alerts. 8 Table of Contents Smart Interactive Notifications Users can take quicker action by responding to rich notifications or viewing an animated preview of a notification video through the lock screen on their smartphone. Smoke and CO Alarm Detection Get notified when the camera hears a smoke or CO alarm triggered. Cloud-based Activity Zones Users can reduce unwanted notifications by highlighting specific areas on their property where they want motion to be detected. Call a Friend Customers can instantly call a friend through the Arlo App from their notification screen with one tap. 24/7 Priority Support Subscribers get priority technical support through the in-app Help Center with omni-channel access to phone, chat, Community or self-help articles. Our paid services subscriber base has grown from over 230,000 paid accounts as of December 31, 2019 to about 1,067,000 as of December 31, 2021. In addition, some of our older camera products come with a prepaid service that provides users with rolling seven-day cloud video storage, the ability to connect up to five cameras and 90 days of customer support. In January 2020, we launched Arlo SmartCloud, a SaaS solution to deliver scalable security cloud services for business. Its comprehensive offering includes computer vision, multi-object detection, audio analysis, security services, scaled storage and numerous ecosystem integrations. Arlo SmartCloud is a fully managed robust global platform of capabilities built for security, scalability, and reliability that can be deployed as part of advanced subscription services for hardware companies, automotive companies, service providers, insurance companies, home builders, smart communities, smart cities, traditional security companies, and other related verticals. Our services also include certain development services provided to Verisure under a Non-recurring Engineering arrangement as part of the disposal of our commercial operations in Europe in the fourth quarter of 2019. Refer to the " Agreements with Verisure " section below for details. Sales Channels We sell our products through multiple sales channels worldwide, including traditional and online retailers, wholesale distributors, broadcast channels, wireless carriers, security solution providers as well as directly to consumers through our own online store. Retailers . We sell to traditional and online retailers, either directly or through wholesale distributors. We work directly with our retail channels on market development activities, such as co-advertising, including digital and traditional media, online promotions and video demonstrations, instant rebate programs, event sponsorship and sales associate training. Our largest retailer is Best Buy and its affiliates. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we derived 13.0% of our revenue from Best Buy and its affiliates, which is the only retailer that accounted for 10% or greater of our revenue in 2021. Wholesale Distributors . Our distribution channel supplies our products to retailers, e-commerce resellers, wireless carriers and broadcast channels. We sell directly to our distributors, including Ingram Micro, Inc., D&H Distributing Company, and Synnex Corporation. Broadcast Channels . We also sell our products through TV shopping networks such as HSN. 9 Table of Contents Wireless Carriers . We supply our products to major wireless carriers around the world, including AT&T, Verizon, Telstra and Vodafone. This sales channel is and will continue to be the key route-to-market for our current portable LTE-enabled camera and any future cellular-enabled connected lifestyle devices. Security Solution Providers. We sell our products and services to security solution providers, including Verisure, from which we derived 30.8% of our revenue, and Securitas Security Services USA, Inc. Arlo.com. In the third quarter of 2019, we launched our online direct to consumer store to sell our products directly to our customers. We also sell most of our services, such as Arlo Smart and Arlo Secure, directly to consumers. Agreements with Verisure On November 4, 2019, we concurrently entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) and Supply Agreement (the Supply Agreement and together with the Purchase Agreement, the Verisure Agreements) with Verisure. Verisure is a leading European provider of professionally monitored security systems with 24/7 response services to both residential and small business customers. The Verisure Agreements created a strategic partnership that leverages both the Company and Verisures capabilities to create incremental scale to address the ever-growing demand for residential and commercial security. The strategic partnership will combine our innovative connected cameras and cloud services platform with Verisures professionally monitored security solutions to provide a new level of smart security for European customers. The Purchase Agreement provided that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Purchase Agreement, we transferred, sold and assigned to Verisure certain assets (the "Assets") related to our commercial operations in Europe (the "Business") to Verisure for $50.0 million in cash plus additional cash for certain inventory. The Purchase Agreement contains customary representations and warranties regarding Verisure, the Business and the Assets, indemnification provisions, termination rights and other customary provisions. Further, we agreed not to engage in any business that competes with the Business for a period of three years. Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Supply Agreement, Verisure is the exclusive distributor of our products in Europe for all channels, and will non-exclusively distribute our products through its direct channels globally in connection with Verisures security business. During the five-year period commencing January 1, 2020, Verisure has an aggregate purchase commitment of $500.0 million. As of December 31, 2021, $160.1 million of the purchase commitment has been fulfilled. On December 30, 2019, Verisure prepaid $20.0 million for product purchases in fiscal 2020 and on December 21, 2020, Verisure prepaid $40.0 million for product purchases in fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2022. The Supply Agreement also provides for certain development services to Verisure under the Non-recurring Engineering ("NRE") arrangement, including development of certain custom products specified by Verisure, in exchange for an aggregate of $10.0 million, payable in installments upon meeting certain development milestones. In the second fiscal quarter of 2020, an additional $3.5 million was added to the contract price as a result of a modification to Verisure's specification for an Outdoor Custom Camera being developed. As part of the Purchase Agreement, we also entered into a Transition Services Agreement with Verisure ("Verisure TSA") to assist Verisure with the transition of the Companys European commercial operations. These transition services primarily include IT support and other services, including sales and marketing, operations and supply chain, finance, legal, and human resources. As compensation for these transition services, we will be reimbursed by Verisure based on actual direct costs plus allocation of overhead. 10 Table of Contents Competition We believe we are well-positioned to compete within the broader connected lifestyle market, both within and beyond the home as we continue to launch new product lines and services within our smart platform. However, our market is highly competitive and evolving, and we expect competition to increase in the future. We believe the principal competitive factors impacting the market for our products include price, service offerings, functionality, brand, technology, design, distribution channels and customer service. We believe that we compete favorably in these areas on the basis of our market leadership position in the U.S. consumer network connected camera systems market, best-in-class technology, direct relationship with users and user engagement, trusted Arlo platform, strong Arlo brand and channel partners and deep strategic partnerships with key suppliers, such as Cypress Semiconductor Co., OmniVision Technologies Inc. and Qualcomm Incorporated. Moreover, our focus on building a connected lifestyle platform, combined with our leadership in innovation in the consumer network connected camera systems market, has led to the strength of our Arlo brand worldwide. We believe this focus allows us to compete favorably with companies that have introduced or have announced plans to introduce devices with connected lifestyle functionalities. Nevertheless, the connected lifestyle market remains highly competitive, and has a multitude of participants, including: large global technology companies, such as Amazon (Ring and Blink) and Google (Nest); security service vendors, such as ADT; telecom service providers, such as AT&T and Comcast; and smaller point product companies. Many of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. We anticipate that current and potential competitors will also intensify their efforts to penetrate our target markets. For additional information, see Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business-Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, and to be competitive we may be required to lower our prices or increase our sales and marketing expenses, which could result in reduced margins and loss of market share . Research and Development We are passionate about developing new and innovative products and services that enable the connected lifestyle. Our research and development team collaborates with our product team to design and build differentiated new products and improve upon our existing products and services. Our goal is to create unique user experiences within the connected lifestyle. For example, our original Arlo camera was the worlds first commercially available 100% battery-operated Wi-Fi security camera with 720p HD video, IP65-rated weather resistance and night vision. The groundbreaking nature of the product, first launched in December 2014, gathered critical acclaim and market success. Our research and development team has taken this same approach to all of our subsequent product releases, constantly innovating to stay ahead of the competition. As of December 31, 2021, our research and development staff consisted of 131 employees, located in our offices worldwide, and was comprised of front-end and back-end software engineers, radio frequency engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers, system test engineers, computer vision scientists and data analysis engineers, UX and industrial design engineers and mobile app developers. We intend to continue to invest in research and development to expand our platform and capabilities in the future. Manufacturing While all of our products are primarily designed in North America, we currently outsource manufacturing to Foxconn Cloud Network Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd., Pegatron Corporation, and Wistron NeWeb Corporation, which are all headquartered in Asia. Although we do not have any long-term purchase contracts, we have executed master product supply agreements with these manufacturers, which typically provide indemnification for intellectual property infringement, epidemic failure clauses, agreed-upon price concessions, division of each partys intellectual property and product quality requirements. As we expand our product portfolio, we continue to explore new potential manufacturing 11 Table of Contents partners that may provide us with competitive advantages on technology and cost. Since we outsource our manufacturing, we have the flexibility and ability to adapt to market changes, product supply and component pricing while keeping our costs low. In addition to their responsibility for the manufacturing of our products, our manufacturers typically purchase all necessary parts and materials to produce finished goods. To maintain quality standards for our suppliers, we have established our own product quality organization based in Vietnam, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Indonesia, and mainland China, which is responsible for auditing and inspecting process and product quality on the premises of our manufacturers. Our strategic relationships with our manufacturers are an important component of our ability to introduce new products and grow our business. We focus on driving alignment of our product roadmaps with our manufacturers and determining what we can do collectively to reduce costs across the supply chain. Our operations teams based in the United States, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Vietnam, Indonesia and mainland China coordinate with our manufacturers engineering, manufacturing and quality control personnel to develop the requisite manufacturing processes, quality checks and testing and general oversight of the manufacturing activities. We believe this model has enabled us to quickly and efficiently deliver high-quality and innovative products, while enabling us to minimize costs and manage inventory. Our products are manufactured and packaged for retail sale by our manufacturers mostly in Vietnam and Indonesia, with minimal manufacturers in China, and shipped to our logistics hubs located in the United States, Hong Kong and Australia. Our operations team coordinates with our manufacturers to ensure that the shipment of our products from the manufacturers to these logistics hubs meets customer demand. Marketing Our marketing programs are focused on building global brand awareness, increasing product adoption and driving sales. Our marketing efforts target individuals interested in a connected lifestyle. We also increase brand awareness by augmenting word-of-mouth recommendations from Arlo customers and key influencers, interact digitally with current and prospective customers and maintain and develop our strong channel partnerships and strong shelf presence. We collaborate with our retail partners on market development activities to drive in-store and online engagement with the brand and drive purchases. Customer Care We provide customer care to Arlo users globally through a variety of communication channels, including phone, chat, email, social media and our Arlo Community, as well as self-guided resources such as knowledge-base articles, how-to videos and technical documentation on our website. We believe that providing timely, responsive customer support and educational content to our users helps foster an ongoing engagement that builds loyalty to our brand and also enables Arlo to understand user needs as they evolve. The online Arlo Community in particular serves as an efficient and engaging platform through which we can deliver customer care and receive feedback from users. We gather and analyze user feedback from all platforms to help inform our design and engineering teams about future enhancements to our products and services. In order to best serve our users globally, we manage and continually adjust our resources worldwide through a mixture of permanent employees and subcontracted, outsourced resources. As our installed base continues to grow in new geographies, new categories and technologies, we will continue to focus on building a scalable support infrastructure that enables our users to engage with us through the channel that is most convenient and efficient for their needs. Arlo Cloud Engineering Operations We currently serve our users from third-party data center hosting facilities. Our cloud platform runs in data centers in the United States and a data center in Ireland to serve our European Union users. We also utilize data centers in Singapore and Australia. We have designed our cloud environments to be highly resilient with built-in redundancy and provide failover to other data centers in our network. 12 Table of Contents Fiscal periods Our fiscal year begins on January 1 of the year stated and ends on December 31 of the same year. We report our results on a fiscal quarter basis rather than on a calendar quarter basis. Under the fiscal quarter basis, each of the first three fiscal quarters ends on the Sunday closest to the calendar quarter end, with the fourth quarter ending on December 31. Seasonality Historically, we have generated higher product revenue in the third and fourth quarters of each year compared to the first and second quarters due to seasonal demand from consumer markets, primarily relating to the beginning of the school year and the holiday season. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, our third and fourth quarters collectively represented 58.4%, 63.0% and 61.8%, respectively, of our revenue for such years. Therefore, timely and effective product introductions are critical to our results of operations. Backlog Our backlog consists of products for which customer purchase orders have been received and that are scheduled or in the process of being scheduled for shipment. As of December 31, 2021, we had a backlog of $4.4 million, compared to $5.7 million as of December 31, 2020 and $5.4 million as of December 31, 2019. As we typically fulfill orders received within a relatively short period after receipt, our revenue in any fiscal year depends primarily upon orders booked and the availability of supply of our products in that year. In addition, most of our backlog is subject to rescheduling or cancellation with minimal penalties. As a result, our backlog as of any particular date may not be an indicator of revenue for any succeeding period. Similarly, there is a lack of meaningful correlation between year-over-year changes in backlog as compared with year-over-year changes in revenue. Accordingly, we do not believe that backlog information is material to an understanding of our overall business, and backlog as of any particular date should not be considered a reliable indicator of our ability to achieve any particular level of revenue or financial performance. Intellectual Property Our ability to protect our intellectual property will be an important factor in the success and continued growth of our business. We rely upon a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark laws and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Some of our technology relies upon third-party licensed intellectual property. We currently hold 95 issued United States patents, 45 pending United States patent applications, 23 international patents, including patents issued by China and the EU, 22 pending patent applications outside of the United States. All the patents and patent applications generally relate to certain aspects of our hardware devices, accessories, software and services. We continually review our development efforts to assess the existence and patentability of new intellectual property. We also pursue the registration of our domain names and trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. We currently have seven registered trademarks and three pending trademark applications in the United States, as well as 49 registered trademarks and 22 pending trademark applications outside of the United States. We currently hold trademark registrations for ARLO in ten countries: the United States, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Japan, Mexico, Peru, and Trinidad and Tobago, as well as the World Intellectual Property Organization . For more information, see Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business-If we are unable to secure and protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete could be harmed . 13 Table of Contents Environmental Laws Our products and manufacturing processes are subject to numerous governmental regulations, which cover both the use of various materials and environmental concerns. Environmental issues such as pollution and climate change have had significant legislative and regulatory efforts on a global basis, and there are expected to be additional changes to the regulations in these areas. These changes could directly increase the cost of energy, which may have an impact on the way we manufacture products. In addition, any new regulations or laws in the environmental area might increase the cost of the raw materials we use in our products and the cost of compliance. Other regulations in the environmental area may require us to continue to monitor and ensure proper disposal or recycling of our products. To the best of our knowledge, we maintain compliance with all current government regulations concerning our production processes for all locations in which we operate. Since we operate on a global basis, this is also a complex process that requires continual monitoring of regulations and an ongoing compliance process to ensure that we and our suppliers are in compliance with all existing regulations. Culture and Human Capital Resources Our culture, mission and values are a critical part of our success. In fact, core to our vision of bringing peace of mind by connecting and protecting what people care about the most is creating the right environment for our people. We strive to ensure that our employees are continually connected to our vision and mission through appropriate communication, throughout our talent proposition and as we serve our customers. Our culture focuses on connecting our people in an inclusive and flexible workforce, connecting our employees with the right development opportunities, and linking our group success with individual performance. It is founded on an employee value proposition that puts people and teams at the center of our business. Through radical collaboration, trust, and conscious leadership, our diverse teams continue to create innovative solutions for our customers. We protect our culture through leadership excellence and developing the right leadership behaviors that are both conscious and strategic in their impact on our performance. We value creativity, agility, hard work, transparency, and integrity, as we focus on continually innovating and improving our technology, solutions, brand, and partnerships. Human capital measures and objectives used to manage our business focus on employee safety and wellness, talent acquisition and retention, employee engagement, development and training, diversity and inclusion, and compensation and pay equity. We strive to attract and retain exceptionally talented, diverse, and ethical employees, and we are proud of the culture we have built. Our talented employees, located throughout the United States, Canada, Asia, Australia, and Europe communicate, connect and work together to deliver a world-class end-to-end connected lifestyle solution. We believe that we maintain a good working relationship with our employees, and we have not experienced any labor disputes. As of December 31, 2021, we had a total of 353 full-time employees, of which approximately 69% were based in the United States, and approximately 31% were based in other global regions. Diversity and Inclusion Arlo is proud to be an equal opportunity workplace and an affirmative action employer. We always strive to treat all employees and job applicants based on merit, qualifications, personality, and talent, and to draw from a diverse candidate pool as we recruit new talent across all levels. We deeply connect people from all backgrounds and beliefs and strive for a truly inclusive and collaborative working environment. We have taken action alongside a group of more than 1,200 businesses in a collective commitment to make progress towards advancing diversity and inclusion in our workplace, communities, and country. We value diversity and integrate it into our business by striving to ensure that our company is representative of the customers we serve and that inclusion is at the core of our workplace culture. In 2020, our Chief Executive Officer signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion pledge, the largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance diversity and inclusion within the workplace 14 Table of Contents to underscore our commitment. By making the pledge, we go beyond accepting diversity and committed to the following actions: Continue to cultivate our workplace to support open dialogue on complex, and sometimes difficult conversations about diversity and inclusion. Make unconscious bias education available to everyone. Share best knownand unsuccessfulactions. Create and share strategic inclusion and diversity plans with our board of directors as a way to prioritize diversity and inclusion and to drive accountability in our organization. For the second year running, we are partnering with the GEM Consortium ("GEM"). GEM connects highly qualified students from underrepresented groups to STEM graduate programs with much-needed financial support that is often the deciding factor in pursuing graduate education. We have welcomed a number of GEM interns at Arlo. We host a number of events and days of observance with guest and internal speakers at Arlo. Each Spring, for example, we hold a "Week of Understanding" with speakers on key diversity and inclusion topics. These events provide a platform for dialogue and an opportunity for every employee to learn, discuss, and appreciate differences between colleagues as we grow to drive greater inclusion at Arlo and truly reflect the customers we serve. COVID-19 and Employee Safety During the COVID-19 pandemic, our primary focus has been on the safety and well-being of our employees and their families. Our global pandemic efforts include implementing early and continuous updates to our health and safety policies and processes, migrating all but a limited number of our global workforce to work remotely while local and state governments have imposed shelter-in-place orders in the United States and around the world. We are focused on providing our team with the resources that they need to meet the needs of our customers and deliver new innovations to the markets we serve, despite challenges introduced by the COVID-19 pandemic. As the pandemic continues, the health and well-being of our workforce remains our top priority while we ensure productivity while working from home. Company Information We were incorporated in Delaware in January 2018 in connection with the separation of our business (the Separation) from NETGEAR, Inc. (NETGEAR). Our principal executive offices are located at 2200 Faraday Ave., Suite #150, Carlsbad, California 92008, and our telephone number is (408) 890-3900. Our website is http://www.arlo.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities Exchange Commission (the SEC). The contents of our website are not incorporated into this Annual Report. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual reference only. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act are filed with the SEC. We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and file or furnish reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Our filings are also available to the public over the Internet at the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov. 15 Table of Contents Our website provides a link to our SEC filings, which are available free of charge on the same day such filings are made. The specific location on the website where these reports can be found is http://investor.arlo.com. Our website also provides a link to Section 16 filings which are available free of charge on the same day as such filings are made. Information contained on these websites is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 16 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves substantial risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, when evaluating our business and before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. We describe below what we believe are currently the material risks and uncertainties we face, but they are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business The effects of health epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic and its variants, could have an adverse impact on our business, operations and the markets and communities in which we, our partners and customers operate. Our business and operations could be adversely affected by health epidemics, including the recent COVID-19 pandemic, impacting the markets and communities in which we, our partners and our customers operate. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization announced that COVID-19, a respiratory illness, caused by a novel coronavirus is a pandemic. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, many state, local and foreign governments have put in place, and others in the future may put in place, quarantines, executive orders, shelter-in-place orders and similar government orders and restrictions in order to control the spread of the disease. Such orders or restrictions, or the perception that such orders or restrictions could occur, have resulted in business closures, work stoppages, slowdowns and delays, work-from-home policies, travel restrictions and cancellation of events, among other effects that could negatively impact productivity and disrupt our operations and those of our partners and our customers. For example, we have implemented a work-from-home policy for the vast majority of employees, and we may take further actions that alter our operations as may be required by federal, state or local authorities, or which we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, partners and stockholders. In addition, while the potential impact and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and our business in particular may be difficult to assess or predict, the pandemic has resulted in, and may continue to result in significant disruption of global financial markets, reducing our ability to access capital, which could in the future negatively affect our liquidity. The COVID-19 pandemic also could reduce demand for our products and services as our largest channel partners focus on selling essential goods, temporarily close stores or experience decreases in foot traffic. In addition, a recession or market correction resulting from the spread of COVID-19 could further decrease technology spending, adversely affecting demand for our products and services, our business and the value of our common stock. The COVID-19 pandemic may adversely affect the ability of our third-party manufacturers and other suppliers to fulfill their obligations to us. We rely on these manufacturers to procure components and, in some cases, subcontract engineering work. We cannot guarantee that our third-party manufacturers or other suppliers will be able to meet our near-term or long-term manufacturing requirements. If we experience supply constraints from our third-party manufacturers, we may be required to allocate the affected products amongst our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our relationships with these customers and on our financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to meet customer demand due to fluctuating or late supply from our third-party manufacturers and other suppliers, it could result in lost sales and have a material adverse effect on our business. We also rely on other suppliers such as cloud infrastructure services providers, distribution centers and logistics and transportation services providers. If our manufacturers and other suppliers are unable to fulfill their obligations to us, we could face products shortages, delay in new product introductions, services to our customers could be interrupted, and our products distribution could be delayed and thus adversely affecting our revenue. For example, increased demand for electronics as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, effects of the U.S. trade war with China, increased demand for chips in the automotive industry and certain other factors have led to a global 17 Table of Contents shortage of semiconductors. As a result, we have experienced component shortages, including longer lead times for components and supply constraints, that have affected both our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries and worldwide demand for our products. Also, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, our supply chain partners are limited by production capacity, constrained by material availability, labor shortages, factory uptime and freight capacity, each of which constrains our ability to capitalize fully on end market demand. As of December 31, 2021, international freight capacity has dropped, causing air and ocean freight rates to materially increase. Furthermore, transit times have also increased, causing us to rely more on air freight in order to meet our customers' demands. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we saw a 138% increase in freight-in expense compared to the prior year, as a result of the higher sea and air freight rates and component shortages which necessitated use of air freight to meet customer requested delivery dates. We expect supply chain constraints to continue in 2022. While we have been successful in navigating COVID-19 related challenges to date, any further disruptions brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic to our supply chain and operations could have a significant negative impact on our net revenue, gross and operating margin performance. The global pandemic of COVID-19 continues to rapidly evolve, and we will continue to monitor the COVID-19 situation closely. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or a similar health epidemic is highly uncertain and subject to change. We do not yet know the full extent of potential delays or impacts on our business, operations or the global economy as a whole. We obtain several key components from limited or sole sources, and if these sources fail to satisfy our supply requirements or we are unable to properly manage our supply requirements with our third-party manufacturers, we may lose sales and experience increased component costs. Any shortage or delay in the supply of key product components would harm our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries. Many of the components used in our products are specifically designed for use in our products, some of which are obtained from sole source suppliers. These components include lens, lens-sensors, and passive infrared (PIR) sensors that have been customized for the Arlo application, as well as custom-made batteries that provide power conservation and safety features. In addition, the components used in our end products have been optimized to extend battery life. Our third-party manufacturers generally purchase these components on our behalf, and we do not have any contractual commitments or guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. If demand for a specific component increases, we may not be able to obtain an adequate number of that component in a timely manner. In addition, if worldwide demand for the components increases significantly, the availability of these components could be limited. For example, increased demand for electronics as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, effects of the U.S. trade war with China, increased demand for chips in the automotive industry and certain other factors have led to a global shortage of semiconductors. Due to such shortage, starting in the fourth quarter of 2020 and throughout 2021 we experienced component shortages, including longer lead times for components, and supply constraints, which we expect to continue in 2022. Such shortages and constraints affected our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries and worldwide demand for our products in 2021, and may affect our ability in 2022. Further, our suppliers may experience financial or other difficulties as a result of uncertain and weak worldwide economic conditions. Other factors that may affect our suppliers ability or willingness to supply components to us include internal management or reorganizational issues, such as roll-out of new equipment which may delay or disrupt supply of previously forecasted components, or industry consolidation and divestitures, which may result in changed business and product priorities among certain suppliers. It could be difficult, costly, and time consuming to obtain alternative sources for these components, or to change product designs to make use of alternative components. In addition, difficulties in transitioning from an existing supplier to a new supplier could create delays in component availability that would have a significant impact on our ability to fulfill orders for our products. We provide our third-party manufacturers with a rolling forecast of demand, which they use to determine our material and component requirements. Lead times for ordering materials and components vary significantly and depend on various factors, such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and demand and supply for a component at a given time. Some of our components have long lead times, such as wireless local area network chipsets, physical layer transceivers, connector jacks, and metal and plastic enclosures. If our forecasts are not timely provided or are less than our actual requirements, our third-party manufacturers may be unable to manufacture products in a timely manner. If our forecasts are too high, our third-party manufacturers will be unable to use the components they have purchased on our behalf. The cost 18 Table of Contents of the components used in our products tends to drop rapidly as volumes increase and the technologies mature. Therefore, if our third-party manufacturers are unable to promptly use components purchased on our behalf, our cost of producing products may be higher than our competitors due to an oversupply of higher-priced components. Moreover, if they are unable to use components ordered at our direction, we will need to reimburse them for any losses they incur. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components, or if we experience any interruption in the supply of components, our product shipments could be reduced or delayed or our cost of obtaining these components may increase. For example, in December 2018 we announced a delay in the expected timing of shipment of our Ultra product due to a battery-related issue from one of our suppliers. Component shortages and delays affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries, damage our brand and reputation in the market, and cause us to lose sales and market share. For example, component shortages and disruptions in supply in the past have limited our ability to supply all the worldwide demand for our products, and our revenue was affected. At times, we have elected to use more expensive transportation methods, such as air freight, to make up for manufacturing delays caused by component shortages, which reduces our margins. In addition, at times sole suppliers of highly specialized components have provided components that were either defective or did not meet the criteria required by our retailers, distributors, or other channel partners, resulting in delays, lost revenue opportunities, and potentially substantial write-offs. We depend on a limited number of third-party manufacturers for substantially all of our manufacturing needs. If these third-party manufacturers experience any delay, disruption, or quality control problems in their operations, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we could lose market share and our brand may suffer. All of our products are manufactured, assembled, tested and generally packaged by a limited number of third-party original design manufacturers (ODMs). In most cases, we rely on these manufacturers to procure components and, in some cases, subcontract engineering work. We currently outsource manufacturing to Foxconn Cloud Network Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd., Pegatron Corporation, and Wistron NeWeb Corporation. We do not have any long-term contracts with any of these third-party manufacturers, although we have executed product supply agreements with these manufacturers, which typically provide indemnification for intellectual property infringement, epidemic failure clauses, agreed-upon price concessions, and certain product quality requirements. Some of these third-party manufacturers produce products for our competitors. In addition, one of our principal manufacturers, Foxconn closed its acquisition of Belkin International in September 2018, which includes the WeMo brand of home automation products, which may compete directly with us. Due to changing economic conditions, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the viability of some of these third-party manufacturers may be at risk. The loss of the services of any of our primary third-party manufacturers could cause a significant disruption in operations and delays in product shipments. Qualifying a new manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming. Ensuring that a contract manufacturer is qualified to manufacture our products to our standards is time consuming. In addition, there is no assurance that a contract manufacturer can scale its production of our products at the volumes and in the quality that we require. If a contract manufacturer is unable to do these things, we may have to move production for the products to a new or existing third-party manufacturer, which would take significant effort and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, as we contemplate moving manufacturing into different jurisdictions, we may be subject to additional significant challenges in ensuring that quality, processes, and costs, among other issues, are consistent with our expectations. For example, while we expect our manufacturers to be responsible for penalties assessed on us because of excessive failures of the products, there is no assurance that we will be able to collect such reimbursements from these manufacturers, which causes us to take on additional risk for potential failures of our products. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers also exposes us to the following risks over which we have limited control: unexpected increases in manufacturing and repair costs; inability to control the quality and reliability of finished products; inability to control delivery schedules; 19 Table of Contents potential liability for expenses incurred by third-party manufacturers in reliance on our forecasts that later prove to be inaccurate; potential lack of adequate capacity to manufacture all or a part of the products we require; and potential labor unrest affecting the ability of the third-party manufacturers to produce our products. All of our products must satisfy safety and regulatory standards and some of our products must also receive government certifications. Our third-party manufacturers are primarily responsible for conducting the tests that support our applications for most regulatory approvals for our products. If our third-party manufacturers fail to timely and accurately conduct these tests, we would be unable to obtain the necessary domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. As a result, we would be unable to sell our products and our sales and profitability could be reduced, our relationships with our sales channel could be harmed, and our reputation and brand would suffer. Specifically, substantially all of our manufacturing and assembly occurs in the Asia Pacific region, primarily in Vietnam, and any disruptions due to natural disasters, health epidemics, and political, social, and economic instability in the region would affect the ability of our third-party manufacturers to manufacture our products. In particular, in the event the labor market in Vietnam becomes saturated, our third-party manufacturers in Vietnam may increase our costs of production. If these costs increase, it may affect our margins and ability to lower prices for our products to stay competitive. Labor unrest may also affect our third-party manufacturers, as workers may strike and cause production delays. If our third-party manufacturers fail to maintain good relations with their employees or contractors, and production and manufacturing of our products are affected, then we may be subject to shortages of products and the quality of products delivered may be affected. Further, if our manufacturers or warehousing facilities are disrupted or destroyed, we could have no other readily available alternatives for manufacturing and assembling our products, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In the future, we may work with more third-party manufacturers on a contract manufacturing basis, which could result in our exposure to additional risks not inherent in a typical ODM arrangement. Such risks may include our inability to properly source and qualify components for the products, lack of software expertise resulting in increased software defects, and lack of resources to properly monitor the manufacturing process. In our typical ODM arrangement, our ODMs are generally responsible for sourcing the components of the products and warranting that the products will work according to a products specification, including any software specifications. In a contract manufacturing arrangement, we would take on much more, if not all, of the responsibility around these areas. If we are unable to properly manage these risks, our products may be more susceptible to defects, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If disruptions in our transportation network occur or our shipping costs substantially increase, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we may be unable to sell or timely deliver our products, and our operating expenses could increase. We are highly dependent upon the transportation systems we use to ship our products, including surface, ocean and air freight. Our attempts to closely match our inventory levels to our product demand intensify the need for our transportation systems to function effectively and without delay. On a quarterly basis, our shipping volume also tends to steadily increase as the quarter progresses, which means that any disruption in our transportation network in the latter half of a quarter will likely have a more material effect on our business than a disruption at the beginning of a quarter. The transportation network is subject to disruption or congestion from a variety of causes, including labor disputes or port strikes, international conflicts, such as the potential escalating conflict between Russia and Ukraine, acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters, and congestion resulting from higher shipping volumes. Labor disputes among freight carriers and at ports of entry are common, particularly in Europe, and we expect labor unrest and its effects on shipping our products to be a continuing challenge for us. A port worker strike, work slow-down, or other transportation disruption in 20 Table of Contents Long Beach, California, where we import our products to fulfill our American orders, could significantly disrupt our business. Our international freight is regularly subject to inspection by governmental entities. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, international freight capacity has dropped, causing air and ocean freight rates to materially increase. Transit times have also increased. If our delivery times increase unexpectedly for these or any other reasons, our ability to deliver products on time would be materially adversely affected and result in delayed or lost revenue as well as customer imposed penalties. In addition, if increases in fuel prices occur, our transportation costs would likely increase. Moreover, the cost of shipping our products by air freight is greater than by other methods. From time to time in the past and increasingly more common during the COVID-19 pandemic, we have shipped products using extensive air freight to meet unexpected spikes in demand and shifts in demand between product categories, to bring new product introductions to market quickly and to timely ship products previously ordered. If we continue to rely more heavily upon air freight to deliver our products, our overall shipping costs will increase. A prolonged transportation disruption or a significant increase in the cost of freight could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we lose the services of key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued services of our key technical, engineering, sales, marketing, finance, and senior management personnel. The competition for qualified personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing, and sales in the markets in which we operate is intense, both where our U.S. operations are based, including Silicon Valley, and in global markets in which we operate. Our inability to attract qualified personnel, including hardware and software engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our products and services. Decreases in our stock price may negatively affect our efforts to attract and retain qualified personnel. Changes to U.S. immigration policies that restrict our ability to attract and retain technical personnel may negatively affect our research and development efforts. We will continue to replace key personnel, from within or looking outside, wherever we find the best candidates. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. Our business model requires extremely skilled and experienced senior management who are able to withstand the rigorous requirements and expectations of our business. Our success depends on senior management being able to execute at a very high level. The loss of any of our senior management or other key engineering, research, development, sales, or marketing personnel, particularly if lost to competitors, could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing needs of our business. If we suffer the loss of services of any key executive or key personnel, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to have the proper personnel in place to effectively execute our long-term business strategy if key personnel retire, resign or are otherwise terminated. We expect our results of operations to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. Our results of operations are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. If our actual results were to fall below our estimates or the expectations of public market analysts or investors, our quarterly and annual results would be negatively impacted and the price of our stock could decline. Other factors that could affect our quarterly and annual operating results include, but are not limited to: changes in the pricing policies of, or the introduction of new products by, us or our competitors; delays in the introduction of new products by us or market acceptance of these products; health epidemics and other outbreaks, including the COVID-19 pandemic, which could significantly disrupt our operations; introductions of new technologies and changes in consumer preferences that result in either unanticipated or unexpectedly rapid product category shifts; 21 Table of Contents competition with greater resources may cause us to lower prices and in turn could result in reduced margins and loss of market share; epidemic or widespread product failure, or unanticipated safety issues, in one or more of our products; slow or negative growth in the connected lifestyle, home electronics, and related technology markets; seasonal shifts in end-market demand for our products; unanticipated decreases or delays in purchases of our products by our significant retailers, distributors, and other channel partners; component supply constraints from our vendors; unanticipated increases in costs, including air freight, associated with shipping and delivery of our products; the inability to maintain stable operations by our suppliers and other parties with whom we have commercial relationships; discovery of security vulnerabilities in our products, services or systems, leading to negative publicity, decreased demand, or potential liability; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in the jurisdictions where we transact sales and expenditures in local currency; excess levels of inventory and low turns; changes in or consolidation of our sales channels and wholesale distributor relationships or failure to manage our sales channel inventory and warehousing requirements; delay or failure to fulfill orders for our products on a timely basis; delay or failure of our retailers, distributors, and other channel partners to purchase at their historic volumes or at the volumes that they or we forecast; changes in tax rates or adverse changes in tax laws that expose us to additional income tax liabilities; changes in U.S. and international tax policy, including changes that adversely affect customs, tax or duty rates such as tariffs on product imports, as well as income tax legislation and regulations that affect the countries where we conduct business; operational disruptions, such as transportation delays or failure of our order processing system, particularly if they occur at the end of a fiscal quarter; disruptions or delays related to our financial and enterprise resource planning systems; our inability to accurately forecast product demand, resulting in increased inventory exposure; 22 Table of Contents allowance for credit losses exposure with our existing retailers, distributors and other channel partners and new retailers, distributors and other channel partners, particularly as we expand into new international markets; geopolitical disruption, including sudden changes in immigration policies, leading to disruption in our workforce or delay or even stoppage of our operations in manufacturing, transportation, technical support, and research and development; terms of our contracts with channel partners or suppliers that cause us to incur additional expenses or assume additional liabilities; an increase in price protection claims, redemptions of marketing rebates, product warranty and stock rotation returns or allowance for credit losses; litigation involving alleged patent infringement; failure to effectively manage our third-party customer support partners, which may result in customer complaints and/or harm to the Arlo brand; our inability to monitor and ensure compliance with our code of ethics, our anti-corruption compliance program, and domestic and international anti-corruption laws and regulations, whether in relation to our employees or with our suppliers or retailers, distributors, or other channel partners; labor unrest at facilities managed by our third-party manufacturers; workplace or human rights violations in certain countries in which our third-party manufacturers or suppliers operate, which may affect the Arlo brand and negatively affect our products acceptance by consumers; unanticipated shifts or declines in profit by geographical region that would adversely impact our tax rate; failure to implement and maintain the appropriate internal controls over financial reporting, which may result in restatements of our financial statements; and any changes in accounting rules. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. If we fail to continue to introduce or acquire new products or services that achieve broad market acceptance on a timely basis, or if our products or services are not adopted as expected, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain revenue and gross margin. We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment, and our future success depends on our ability to develop or acquire and introduce new products and services that achieve broad market acceptance. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to identify demand trends in the connected lifestyle market and quickly develop or acquire, and design, manufacture and sell, products and services that satisfy these demands in a cost-effective manner. In order to differentiate our products and services from our competitors products, we must continue to increase our focus and capital investment in research and development, including software development. We have committed a substantial amount of resources to the manufacture, development and sale of our Arlo Secure services and our wire-free smart Wi-Fi cameras, advanced baby monitors, and smart lights, and to introducing additional and improved models in 23 Table of Contents these lines. In addition, we plan to continue to introduce new categories of smart connected devices to the Arlo platform in the near future. If our existing products and services do not continue, or if our new products or services fail, to achieve widespread market acceptance, if existing customers do not subscribe to our paid subscription services such as Arlo Secure, if those services do not achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unsuccessful in capitalizing on opportunities in the connected lifestyle market, as well as in the related market in the small business segment, our future growth may be slowed and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Successfully predicting demand trends is difficult, and it is very difficult to predict the effect that introducing a new product or service will have on existing product or service sales. It is possible that Arlo may not be as successful with its new products and services, and as a result our future growth may be slowed and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Also, we may not be able to respond effectively to new product or service announcements by our competitors by quickly introducing competitive products and services. In addition, we may acquire companies and technologies in the future and, consistent with our vision for Arlo, introduce new product and service lines in the connected lifestyle market. In these circumstances, we may not be able to successfully manage integration of the new product and service lines with our existing suite of products and services. If we are unable to effectively and successfully further develop these new product and service lines, we may not be able to increase or maintain our sales, and our gross margin may be adversely affected. We may experience delays and quality issues in releasing new products and services, which may result in lower quarterly revenue than expected. In addition, we may in the future experience product or service introductions that fall short of our projected rates of market adoption. Currently, reviews of our products and services are a significant factor in the success of our new product and service launches. If we are unable to generate a high number of positive reviews or quickly respond to negative reviews, including end-user reviews posted on various prominent online retailers, our ability to sell our products and services will be harmed. Any future delays in product and service development and introduction, or product and service introductions that do not meet broad market acceptance, or unsuccessful launches of new product and service lines could result in: loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share; negative publicity and damage to our reputation and brand; a decline in the average selling price of our products and services; adverse reactions in our sales channels, such as reduced shelf space, reduced online product visibility, or loss of sales channels; and increased levels of product returns. Throughout the past few years, Arlo has significantly increased the rate of new product and service introductions, with the introduction of new lines of Arlo cameras, smart lights, and doorbell products, as well as the introduction of our Arlo Secure services. If we cannot sustain that pace of product and service introductions, either through rapid innovation or acquisition of new products and services or product and service lines, we may not be able to maintain or increase the market share of our products and services or expand further into the connected lifestyle market in accordance with our current plans. In addition, if we are unable to successfully introduce or acquire new products and services with higher gross margin, our revenue and overall gross margin would likely decline. We may need additional financing to meet our future long-term capital requirements and may be unable to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms or at all. We have recorded a net loss of $56.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, and we have a history of losses and may continue to incur operating and net losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2021, our accumulated deficit was $288.8 million. 24 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2021, our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $175.7 million. In October 2021, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (the "Credit Agreement"), providing for a credit facility of up to $40.0 million and as of December 31, 2021, we have not borrowed against this credit facility. Refer to Note 10, Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details on the Credit Agreement. While based on our current plans, the Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A., and market conditions, we believe that such sources of liquidity will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may require additional funds, either through equity or debt financings or collaborative agreements or from other sources. We have no commitments to obtain such additional financing, and we may not be able to obtain any such additional financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate financing is not available, we may further delay, postpone or terminate product and service expansion and curtail certain selling, general and administrative operations. The inability to raise additional financing may have a material adverse effect on our future performance. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has already resulted in a significant disruption of global financial markets. If the disruption persists and deepens, we could experience an inability to access additional capital. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, and to be competitive we may be required to lower our prices or increase our sales and marketing expenses, which could result in reduced margins and loss of market share. We compete in a rapidly evolving and fiercely competitive market, and we expect competition to continue to be intense, including price competition. Our principal competitors include Amazon (Blink and Ring), Google (Nest), Swann, Night Owl, Wyze, Foxconn Corporation (Belkin), Samsung, D-Link, Canary and Eufy. Other competitors include numerous local vendors such as Netatmo, Logitech, Bosch, Instar, and Uniden. In addition, these local vendors may target markets outside of their local regions and may increasingly compete with us in other regions worldwide. Many of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, and other resources. These competitors may, among other things, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, obtain more favorable pricing from suppliers and manufacturers, and exert more influence on sales channels than we can. In addition, certain competitors may have different business models, such as integrated manufacturing capabilities, that may allow them to achieve cost savings and to compete on the basis of price. Other competitors may have fewer resources, but may be more nimble in developing new or disruptive technology or in entering new markets. We anticipate that current and potential competitors will also intensify their efforts to penetrate our target markets. For example, price competition is intense in our industry in certain geographical regions and product categories. Many of our competitors price their products significantly below our product costs. Average sales prices have declined in the past and may again decline in the future. These competitors may have more advanced technology, more extensive distribution channels, stronger brand names, greater access to shelf space in retail locations, bigger promotional budgets, and larger retailers, distributors, and other channel partners, and end-user bases than we do. In addition, many of these competitors leverage a broader product portfolio and offer lower pricing as part of a more comprehensive end-to-end solution. These companies could devote more capital resources to develop, manufacture, and market competing products than we could. Amazon is both a competitor and a distribution channel for our products as well as a provider of services to support our cloud-based storage. If Amazon decided to end our distribution channel relationship or ceased providing cloud storage services to us, our sales and product performance could be harmed, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our competitors may also acquire other companies in the market and leverage combined resources to gain market share. If any of these companies are successful in competing against us, our sales could decline, our margins could be negatively impacted, and we could lose market share, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We entered into an asset purchase agreement (the Asset Purchase Agreement) and supply agreement (the Supply Agreement) with Verisure Srl (Verisure) that gives Verisure exclusive marketing and distribution rights for our products in Europe as well as the ability to sell our products through their direct channel globally. We cannot provide assurance that the arrangement with Verisure will continue to be a successful collaboration. Verisure has the exclusive right to market and distribute our products in Europe. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted if Verisure is not successful in continuing to sell our products in Europe. Even though the Supply Agreement provides for minimum purchase commitments, if Verisure fails to pay on a timely basis, or at all, including because of effects from COVID-19, or otherwise does not perform under the Supply Agreement, our cash flow would be reduced. We are also exposed to increased credit risk if Verisure fails or becomes insolvent. We also cannot provide any assurance that we will successfully develop custom products as specified by Verisure under the Supply Agreement. The Purchase Agreement and Supply Agreement with Verisure contain customary representations and warranties regarding, the Business and the Assets, indemnification provisions, termination rights, certain financial covenants and other customary provisions. Additionally, we have agreed not to engage in any business that competes with the Business for a period of three years. Our failure to comply with these provisions may have a material adverse effect on our future performance. We are dependent on information technology systems, infrastructure and data. System security risks, breaches of data protection, cyber-attacks, and erroneous or non-malicious actions or failures to act by our employees or others with authorized access to our networks could disrupt our products, services, internal operations, or information technology systems, and could lead to theft of our intellectual property, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation, and cause our stock price to decline significantly. Information security risks have significantly increased in recent years in part due to the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties, including foreign private parties and state actors. Our products and services may contain unknown security vulnerabilities. For example, the firmware, software, and open source software that we or our manufacturing partners have installed on our products may be susceptible to hacking, unauthorized manipulation, or misuse. In addition, we offer a comprehensive online cloud management service, Arlo Secure, paired with our end products, including our cameras, baby monitors, and smart lights and we recently launched our direct to consumer store to sell our products directly to our customers. If malicious actors compromise this cloud service or our direct to consumer store, or if customer confidential information is accessed without authorization, our business will be harmed. Operating an online cloud service and direct to consumer store are a relatively new businesses for us, and we may not have the expertise to properly manage risks related to data security and systems security. We rely on third-party providers for a number of critical aspects of our cloud services and customer support, including web hosting services, billing, and payment processing, and consequently we do not maintain direct control over the security or stability of the associated systems. If we or our third-party providers are unable to properly secure our system or successfully prevent breaches of security relating to our products, services, or user private information, including user videos and user personal identification information, or if these third-party systems fail for other reasons, our management could need to spend increasing amounts of time and effort in this area. As a result, we could incur substantial expenses, our brand and reputation could suffer and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Maintaining the security of our computer information systems and communication systems is a critical issue for us and our customers and we devote considerable internal and external resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems, customers, and users, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. The multitude and complexity of our computer systems may make them vulnerable to service interruption or destruction, breaches of security, disruption of data integrity, inadvertent errors that expose our data or systems, malicious intrusion, or random attacks. Likewise, data privacy or security incidents or intentional or non-malicious breaches by employees or others may pose a risk that sensitive data, including our intellectual property, trade secrets or personal information of our employees, customers or users, or other business partners may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to 26 Table of Contents the public, or that risk of loss or misuse of this information could occur, resulting in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Malicious actors may develop and deploy malware that is designed to manipulate our systems, including our internal network, or those of our vendors or customers. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our information technology systems, our data or our customers data. We have established a crisis management plan and business continuity program. While we regularly test the plan and the program, there can be no assurance that the plan and program can withstand an actual disruption in our business, including a cyber-attack, hacking, fraud, social engineering, or other forms of deception. While we have established service-level and geographic redundancy for our critical systems, our ability to utilize these redundant systems must be tested regularly, failing over to such systems always carries risk and we cannot be assured that such systems are fully functional. For example, much of our order fulfillment process is automated and the order information is stored on our servers. A significant business interruption could result in losses or damages and harm our business. If our computer systems and servers become unavailable at the end of a fiscal quarter, for example, our ability to recognize revenue may be delayed until we are able to utilize back-up systems and continue to process and ship our orders. This could cause our stock price to decline significantly. Changes in how our employees work and access our systems during the current COVID-19 pandemic also could lead to additional opportunities for bad actors to launch cyberattacks or for employees to cause inadvertent security risks or incidents. The effects of a security breach or privacy violation could be further amplified during the current COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant and theft of our intellectual property or proprietary business information could require substantial expenditures to remedy. Further, we cannot be certain that (a) our liability insurance will be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyberattacks and other related breaches; (b) such coverage will cover any indemnification claims against us relating to any incident, will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all; or (c) any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends on our ability to increase sales of our paid subscription services. Our future success is largely dependent on increasing sales of our paid subscription services. Even if we are successful in selling our smart connected devices and accessories, if we are unable to maintain or increase sales of Arlo Secure services, our revenue and overall gross margin would likely decline. Interruptions with the cloud-based systems that we use in our operations provided by an affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc. ("Amazon"), which is also one of our primary competitors, may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We host our platform using Amazon Web Services (AWS) data centers, a provider of cloud infrastructure services, and may in the future use other third-party cloud-based systems in our operations. All of our solutions currently reside on systems leased and operated by us in these locations. Accordingly, our operations depend on protecting the virtual cloud infrastructure hosted in AWS by maintaining its configuration, architecture, features, and interconnection specifications, as well as the information stored in these virtual data centers and which third-party internet service providers transmit. Although we have disaster recovery plans that utilize multiple AWS locations, any incident affecting their infrastructure that may be caused by human error, fire, flood, severe storm, earthquake, or other natural disasters, cyber-attacks, terrorist or other attacks, and other similar events beyond our control could negatively affect our platform. A prolonged AWS service disruption affecting our platform for any of the foregoing reasons would negatively impact our ability to serve our end-users and could damage our reputation with current and potential end-users, expose us to liability, cause us to lose customers, or otherwise harm our business. We may also incur significant costs for using alternative equipment or taking other actions in preparation for, or in reaction to, events that damage the AWS services we use. 27 Table of Contents Further, if we were to make updates to our platforms that were not compatible with the configuration, architecture, features, and interconnection specifications of the third-party platform, our service could be disrupted. Amazon produces the Amazon Cloud Cam, which competes with our security camera products, and acquired two of our competitors, Blink and Ring, in 2017 and 2018, respectively. Amazon may choose to hamper our competitive efforts, using provision of AWS services as leverage. In the event that there is a lapse of service, elimination of AWS services or features that we use, interruption of internet service provider connectivity, or damage to such facilities, we could experience interruptions in access to our platform as well as significant delays and additional expense in arranging or creating new facilities and services and/or re-architecting our solutions for deployment on a different cloud infrastructure service provider, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our current and future products may experience quality problems, including defects or errors, from time to time that can result in adverse publicity, product recalls, litigation, regulatory proceedings, and warranty claims resulting in significant direct or indirect costs, decreased revenue, and operating margin, and harm to our brand. We sell complex products that could contain design and manufacturing defects in their materials, hardware, and firmware. These defects could include defective materials or components that can unexpectedly interfere with the products intended operations or cause injuries to users or property damage. Although we extensively and rigorously test new and enhanced products and services before their release, we cannot assure we will be able to detect, prevent, or fix all defects. Failure to detect, prevent, or fix defects, or an increase in defects, could result in a variety of consequences, including a greater number of product returns than expected from users and retailers, increases in warranty costs, regulatory proceedings, product recalls, and litigation, each of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We generally provide a one-year hardware warranty on all of our products. The occurrence of real or perceived quality problems or material defects in our current and future products could expose us to warranty claims in excess of our current reserves. If we experience greater returns from retailers or users, or greater warranty claims, in excess of our reserves, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, any negative publicity or lawsuits filed against us related to the perceived quality and safety of our products could also adversely affect our brand, decrease demand for our products and services, and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, epidemic failure clauses are found in certain of our customer contracts. If invoked, these clauses may entitle the customer to return for replacement or obtain credits for products and inventory, as well as assess liquidated damage penalties and terminate an existing contract and cancel future or then-current purchase orders. In such instances, we may also be obligated to cover significant costs incurred by the customer associated with the consequences of such epidemic failure, including freight and transportation required for product replacement and out-of-pocket costs for truck rolls to end-user sites to collect the defective products. Costs or payments we make in connection with an epidemic failure could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If our products contain defects or errors, or are found to be noncompliant with industry standards, we could experience decreased sales and increased product returns, loss of customers and market share, and increased service, warranty, and insurance costs. In addition, defects in, or misuse of, certain of our products could cause safety concerns, including the risk of property damage or personal injury. If any of these events occurred, our reputation and brand could be damaged, and we could face product liability or other claims regarding our products, resulting in unexpected expenses and adversely impacting our operating results. For instance, if a third party were able to successfully overcome the security measures in our products, such a person or entity could misappropriate end-user data, third-party data stored by our users, and other information, including intellectual property. If that happens, affected end-users or others may file actions against us alleging product liability, tort, or breach of warranty claims. We rely on a limited number of traditional and online retailers and wholesale distributors for a substantial portion of our sales, and our revenue could decline if they refuse to pay our requested prices or reduce their level of purchases or if there is significant consolidation in our sales channels, which results in fewer sales channels for our products. 28 Table of Contents We sell a substantial portion of our products through traditional and online retailers, including Amazon, Best Buy Co., Inc. ("Best Buy"), and Costco Wholesale Corporation (Costco) and Verisure and their respective affiliates. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we derived 13.0% of our revenue from Best Buy and its affiliates and 30.8% of our revenue from Verisure and its affiliates, respectively. In addition, we sell to wholesale distributors, including Ingram Micro, Inc., D&H Distributing Company, and Synnex Corporation. We expect that a significant portion of our revenue will continue to come from sales to a small number of such retailers, distributors, and other channel partners. In addition, because our accounts receivable are often concentrated within a small group of retailers, distributors, and other channel partners, the failure of any of them to pay on a timely basis, or at all, would reduce our cash flow. If Best Buy or other retailers closes any of its retail stores due to COVID-19 pandemic, our revenue could be adversely impacted. We are also exposed to increased credit risk if any one of these limited numbers of retailer and distributor channel partners fails or becomes insolvent. Verisure has an aggregate purchase commitment of $500.0 million during a five-year period commencing January 1, 2020. Other than with Verisure, we generally have no minimum purchase commitments or long-term contracts with our retailers, distributors and other channel partners. These purchasers could decide at any time to discontinue, decrease, or delay their purchases of our products. If our retailers, distributors, and other channel partners increase the size of their product orders without sufficient lead-time for us to process the order, our ability to fulfill product orders would be compromised. These channel partners have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Accordingly, the prices that they pay for our products are subject to negotiation and could change at any time. We have historically benefited from NETGEARs strong relationships with these retailers, distributors, and other channel partners, and we may not be able to maintain these relationships following our separation from NETGEAR. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with these channel partners is essential to our future performance. If any of our major channel partners reduce their level of purchases or refuse to pay the prices that we set for our products, our revenue and results of operations could be harmed. The traditional retailers that purchase from us have faced increased and significant competition from online retailers. If our key traditional retailers continue to reduce their level of purchases from us, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed. Additionally, concentration and consolidation among our channel partner base may allow certain retailers and distributors to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, channel partner pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margin is diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular channel partner, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. Consolidation among our channel partner base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, elimination of sales opportunities, replacement of our products with those of our competitors, and cancellations of orders, each of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If consolidation among the retailers, distributors, or other channel partners who purchase our products becomes more prevalent, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In particular, the retail and connected home markets in some countries, including the United States, are dominated by a few large retailers with many stores. These retailers have in the past increased their market share and may continue to do so in the future by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. These situations concentrate our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it could increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. In addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces its purchases of our devices, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales. Any reduction in sales by our retailers could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We depend on large, recurring purchases from certain significant retailers, distributors, and other channel partners, and a loss, cancellation, or delay in purchases by these channel partners could negatively affect our revenue. The loss of recurring orders from any of our more significant retailers, distributors, and other channel partners could cause our revenue and profitability to suffer. Our ability to attract new retailers, distributors, and other channel 29 Table of Contents partners will depend on a variety of factors, including the cost-effectiveness, reliability, scalability, breadth, and depth of our products. In addition, a change in the mix of our retailers, distributors, and other channel partners, or a change in the mix of direct and indirect sales, could adversely affect our revenue and gross margin. Although our financial performance may depend on large, recurring orders from certain retailers, distributors, and other channel partners, we do not generally have binding commitments from them. For example: our channel partner agreements generally do not require minimum purchases; our retailers, distributors, and other channel partners can stop purchasing and stop marketing our products at any time; and our channel partner agreements generally are not exclusive. Further, our revenue may be impacted by significant one-time purchases that are not intended to be repeatable. While such purchases are reflected in our financial statements, we do not rely on and do not forecast for continued significant one-time purchases. As a result, lack of repeatable one-time purchases will adversely affect our revenue. Additionally, we may from time to time grant our retailers, distributors, and other channel partners the exceptional right to return certain products, based on the best interests of our mutual businesses, and such returns, if material, could adversely affect our revenue and gross margin. Because our expenses are based on our revenue forecasts, a substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to, or unexpected returns from, channel partners, or the loss of any significant channel partners, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Although our largest channel partners may vary from period to period, we anticipate that our results of operations for any given period will continue to depend on large orders from a small number of channel partners. The average selling prices of our products typically decrease rapidly over the sales cycle of the product, which may negatively affect our revenue and gross margin. Our products typically experience price erosion, a fairly rapid reduction in the average unit selling prices over their sales cycles. In order to sell products that have a falling average unit selling price and maintain margins at the same time, we need to continually reduce product and manufacturing costs. To manage manufacturing costs, we must partner with our third-party manufacturers to engineer the most cost-effective design for our products. In addition, we must carefully manage the price paid for components used in our products, and we must also successfully manage our freight and inventory costs to reduce overall product costs. We also need to continually introduce new products with higher sales prices and gross margin in order to maintain our overall gross margin. If we are unable to manage the cost of older products or successfully introduce new products with higher gross margin, our revenue and overall gross margin would likely decline. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, significant amounts on advertising and other marketing campaigns, which may not be successful or cost effective. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, significant amounts on advertising and other marketing campaigns, such as television, print advertising, and social media, as well as increased promotional activities, to acquire new customers, and we expect our marketing expenses to increase in the future as we continue to spend significant amounts to increase awareness of our smart connected devices and services. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, sales and marketing expenses were $48.9 million and $49.1 million, respectively, representing approximately 11% and 14% of our revenue, respectively. While we seek to structure our advertising campaigns in the manner that we believe is most likely to encourage people to purchase our products and services, we may fail to identify advertising opportunities that satisfy our anticipated return on advertising spend as we scale our investments in marketing or to fully understand or estimate the conditions and behaviors that drive customer behavior. If any of our advertising campaigns prove less 30 Table of Contents successful than anticipated in attracting customers, we may not be able to recover our advertising spend, and our revenue may fail to meet market expectations, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that our advertising and other marketing efforts will result in increased sales of our products or services. Introducing new products and services may be difficult and expensive. If we are unable to do so successfully, our brand may be adversely affected and we may not be able to maintain or grow our current revenue and profit levels. To successfully evolve our product offerings of smart connected devices to appeal to our consumers, we will be required to predict, understand, and react to the rapidly changing tastes of consumers and provide appealing products in a timely manner. New product models that we introduce may not be successful with consumers or our brand may fall out of favor with consumers. If we are unable to anticipate, identify, or react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, our revenues may decrease, our brand image may suffer, our operating performance may decline, and we may not be able to execute our growth plans. We have increased the rate of new product and service introductions, including new lines of Arlo cameras, smart lights, and doorbell products, and we may encounter difficulties that we did not anticipate during the product development stage. If we are not able to efficiently manufacture new products in quantities sufficient to support wholesale, retail, and e-commerce distribution, especially in light of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its variants, we may not be able to recover our investment in the development of new product and service iterations and product lines, and we would continue to be subject to the risks inherent to having a limited product line. Even if we develop and manufacture new products and services that consumers find appealing, the ultimate success of any new products or services may depend on our pricing. We may not provide the appropriate level of marketing in order to educate the market and potential consumers about our new products and services. Achieving market acceptance will require us to exert substantial product development and marketing efforts, which could result in a material increase in our research and development and sales and marketing expenses. There can be no assurance that we will have the resources necessary to undertake such efforts effectively or that such efforts will be successful or that we will dedicate our limited marketing resources to the right product lines and services. Failure to gain market acceptance for new products and services could impede our ability to maintain or grow current revenue levels, reduce profits, adversely affect the image of our brand, erode our competitive position, and result in long-term harm to our business and financial results. If we fail to enhance our brand, our ability to expand our customer base will be impaired and our operating results may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of the Arlo brand is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and is an important element in attracting new customers. Furthermore, we expect the importance of global brand recognition to increase as competition increases. If customers do not perceive our products to be of high quality, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could adversely impact our financial results. In addition, brand promotion efforts may not yield significant revenue or increased revenue sufficient to offset the additional expenses incurred in building our brand. Maintaining, protecting, and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments, and these investments may not be successful. If we fail to successfully maintain, promote, and position our brand and protect our reputation, or if we incur significant expenses in this effort, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. The reputation of our services may be damaged, and we may face significant direct or indirect costs, decreased revenue, and operating margins if our services contain significant defects or fail to perform as intended. Our services, including our intelligent cloud and App platform and our Arlo Secure services, are complex, and may not always perform as intended due to outages of our systems or defects affecting our services. Systems outages could be disruptive to our business and damage the reputation of our services and result in potential loss of revenue. Significant defects affecting our services may be found following the introduction of new software or enhancements to existing software or in software implementations in varied information technology environments. Internal 31 Table of Contents quality assurance testing and end-user testing may reveal service performance issues or desirable feature enhancements that could lead us to reallocate service development resources or postpone the release of new versions of our software. The reallocation of resources or any postponement could cause delays in the development and release of future enhancements to our currently available software, damage the reputation of our services in the marketplace, and result in potential loss of revenue. Although we attempt to resolve all errors that we believe would be considered serious by our partners and customers, the software powering our services is not error-free. Undetected errors or performance problems may be discovered in the future, and known errors that we consider minor may be considered serious by our channel partners and end-users. System disruptions and defects in our services could result in lost revenue, delays in customer deployment, or legal claims and could be detrimental to our reputation. Because we store, process, and use data, some of which contain personal information, we are subject to complex and evolving federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and other related matters, which are subject to change. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and other countries that involve matters central to our business, including with respect to user privacy, rights of publicity, data protection, content, protection of minors, and consumer protection. These laws can be particularly restrictive in countries outside the United States. Both in the United States and abroad, these laws and regulations are constantly evolving and remain subject to significant change. In addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations are often unpredictable and uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate. Because we store, process, and use data, some of which contain personal information, we are subject to complex and evolving federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and other matters. Alleged violations of any of these laws and regulations could result in investigations, claims, changes to our business practices, increased cost of operations, and declines in user growth, retention, or engagement, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In the EU/EEA, the General Data Protection Regulation (2016/679) (GDPR) went into effect in 2018 and replaced Directive 95/46/EC (the EU Privacy Directive), becoming directly applicable in all European Union member states. The GDPR establishes new requirements applicable to the processing of personal data (i.e., data which identifies an individual or from which an individual is identifiable), affords new data protection rights to individuals (e.g., the right to erasure of personal data) and imposes penalties for serious data breaches. Individuals also have a right to compensation under GDPR for financial or non-financial losses. Additionally, Brexit took effect in January 2020, which will lead to further legislative and regulatory changes. While the Data Protection Act of 2018, that implements and complements the GDPR achieved Royal Assent on May 23, 2018 and is now effective in the United Kingdom, it is still unclear whether transfer of data from the EEA to the United Kingdom will remain lawful in the long term under GDPR. With the expiry of the transition period on December 31, 2020, companies will have to comply with the GDPR and the GDPR as incorporated into United Kingdom national law, which has the ability to separately fine up to the greater of 17.5 million or 4% of global turnover. On June 28, 2021, the European Commission announced a decision of adequacy concluding that the UK ensures an equivalent level of data protection to the GDPR, which provides some relief regarding the legality of continued personal data flows from the EEA to the UK. Some uncertainty remains, however, as this adequacy determination must be renewed after four years and may be modified or revoked in the interim. We cannot fully predict how the Data Protection Act, the UK GDPR, and other UK data protection laws or regulations may develop in the medium to longer term nor the effects of divergent laws and guidance regarding how data transfers to and from the UK will be regulated. California also recently enacted legislation that has been dubbed the first GDPR-like law in the U.S. Known as the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), it creates new individual privacy rights for consumers (as that word is broadly defined in the law) and places increased privacy and security obligations on entities handling personal data of consumers or households. The CCPA, which went into effect on January 1, 2020, requires covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers, and provides such consumers new ways to opt-out of certain sales of personal 32 Table of Contents information. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that is expected to increase data breach litigation. The CCPA may increase our compliance costs and potential liability. Further, California voters approved a new privacy law, the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) in the November 3, 2020 election. Effective starting on January 1, 2023, the CPRA will significantly modify the CCPA, including by expanding consumers rights with respect to certain sensitive personal information. The CPRA also creates a new state agency that will be vested with authority to implement and enforce the CCPA and the CPRA. New legislation proposed or enacted in various other states will continue to shape the data privacy environment nationally. For example, on March 2, 2021, Virginia enacted the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act ("CDPA") which becomes effective on January 1, 2023, and on June 8, 2021, Colorado enacted the Colorado Privacy Act ("CPA") which takes effect on July 1, 2023. The CPA and CDPA are similar to the CCPA and CPRA but aspects of these state privacy statutes remain unclear, resulting in further legal uncertainty and potentially requiring us to modify our data practices and policies and to incur substantial additional costs and expenses in an effort to comply. Complying with the GDPR, CCPA, CPRA, CDPA, CPA, or other laws, regulations, amendments to or re-interpretations of existing laws and regulations, and contractual or other obligations relating to privacy, data protection, data transfers, data localization, or information security may require us to make changes to our services to enable us or our customers to meet new legal requirements, incur substantial operational costs, modify our data practices and policies, and restrict our business operations. Any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with these laws, regulations, or other obligations may lead to significant fines, penalties, regulatory investigations, lawsuits, significant costs for remediation, damage to our reputation, or other liabilities. Some observers have noted that the CCPA, CPRA, CDPA, and CPA could mark the beginning of a trend toward more stringent privacy legislation in the U.S., which could increase our potential liability and adversely affect our business. GDPR and CCPA will impose additional responsibility and liability in relation to our processing of personal data. GDPR, CCPA, and CPRA may require us to change our policies and procedures and, if we are not compliant, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to financial and operating covenants in the Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. and any failure to comply with such covenants, or obtain waivers in the event of non-compliance, could limit our borrowing availability under the Credit Agreement, resulting in our being unable to borrow under the Credit Agreement and materially adversely impact our liquidity. In addition, our operations may not provide sufficient cash to meet the repayment obligations of debt incurred under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains provisions that limit our future borrowing availability to the lesser of (x) $40.0 million and (y) an amount equal to the sum of (i) 90% of investment grade eligible receivables and (ii) 85% of non-investment grade eligible accounts, less applicable reserves established by the lender. The Credit Agreement also includes a $5.0 million sublimit for the issuance by the lender of letters of credit. In addition, the Credit Agreement includes an uncommitted accordion feature that allows us to from time to time request that the lender increase the aggregate revolving loan commitments by up to an additional $25.0 million in the aggregate, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. The Credit Agreement contains other customary covenants, including certain restrictions on maintaining a minimum cash balance, achieving certain fixed charge coverage ratio for two consecutive quarters, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, consolidate or merge, enter into acquisitions, pay any dividend or distribution on our capital stock, redeem, retire or purchase shares of our capital stock, make investments or pledge or transfer assets, in each case subject to limited exceptions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the financial and other covenants in the Credit Agreement, and the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may increase the risk of our inability to comply with such covenants. Our failure to comply with these covenants could cause us to be unable to borrow under the Credit Agreement and may constitute an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the maturity of any indebtedness then outstanding under the Credit Agreement, which would require us to pay all amounts then outstanding. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the Lender could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that debt, which would seriously harm our business. Such an event could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, such events of non-compliance could impact the terms of any additional borrowings and/or any 33 Table of Contents credit renewal terms. Any failure to comply with such covenants may be a disclosable event and may be perceived negatively. Such perception could adversely affect the market price for our common stock and our ability to obtain financing in the future. Instability in geographies where we have operations and personnel or where we derive amounts of revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, customers, operations and financial results. Economic, civil, military and political uncertainty exists and may increase regions where we operate and derive our revenue. Various countries in which we operate are experiencing and may continue to experience military action and civil and political unrest. We have operations in the emerging market economies of Eastern Europe, including operations in Belarus utilizing employees and contractors who perform services relating to new product releases. In late February 2022, Russian military forces launched significant military action against Ukraine. Sustained conflict and disruption in the region is likely. The impact to Belarus and Ukraine, as well as actions taken by other countries, including new and stricter sanctions by Canada, the United Kingdom, the European Union, the U.S. and other countries and organizations against officials, individuals, regions, and industries in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, and each countrys potential response to such sanctions, tensions and military actions, could have a material adverse effect on our product development timelines. Any such material adverse effect from the conflict and enhanced sanctions activity may disrupt our receipt of software development services and cause us to shift all or portions of our work occurring in the region to other countries. We are actively monitoring the security of our employees and contractors in Belarus and the stability of our infrastructure, including communications and internet availability. To date we have not experienced any material interruptions in our operations there and we are in the process of transitioning our operations out of Belarus to other locations. If we are unable to effectively transition those services or replicate their capabilities in another country, our ability to timely introduce new products and financial results may be harmed. Global geopolitical, economic and business conditions could materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our business has been and may continue to be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control, such as general geopolitical, economic, and business conditions, conditions in the financial markets, and changes in the overall demand for connected lifestyle products. Our products and services may be considered discretionary items for our consumer and small business end-users. A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, could adversely affect our customers financial condition and the levels of business activity of our customers. Weakness in, and uncertainty about, global economic conditions may cause businesses to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products. In the recent past, various regions worldwide have experienced slow economic growth. In addition, current economic challenges in China, including any global economic ramifications of these challenges, may continue to put negative pressure on global economic conditions. If conditions in the global economy, including Europe, China, Australia and the United States, or other key vertical or geographic markets deteriorate, such conditions could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, the economic problems affecting the financial markets and the uncertainty in global economic conditions resulted in a number of adverse effects, including a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, extreme volatility in credit, equity, currency, and fixed income markets, instability in the stock market, and high unemployment. For example, the challenges faced by the European Union to stabilize some of its member economies, such as Greece, Portugal, Spain, Hungary, and Italy, have had international implications, affecting the stability of global financial markets and hindering economies worldwide. Many member nations in the European Union have been addressing the issues with controversial austerity measures. In addition, the potential consequences of the Brexit process in the United Kingdom have led to significant uncertainty in the region. Should the European Union monetary policy measures be 34 Table of Contents insufficient to restore confidence and stability to the financial markets, or should the United Kingdoms Brexit decision lead to additional economic or political instability, the global economy, including the U.S. and European Union economies where we have a significant presence, could be hindered, which could have a material adverse effect on us. There could also be a number of other follow-on effects from these economic developments on our business, including the inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products, customer insolvencies, decreased customer confidence to make purchasing decisions, decreased customer demand, and decreased customer ability to pay their trade obligations. In addition, availability of our products from third-party manufacturers and our ability to distribute our products into non-U.S. jurisdictions may be impacted by factors such as an increase in duties, tariffs, or other restrictions on trade; raw material shortages, work stoppages, strikes and political unrest; economic crises and international disputes or conflicts; changes in leadership and the political climate in countries from which we import products. Further, the imposition of and changes in the U.S.' and other governments' duties, trade regulations, trade wars, tariffs, other restrictions or other geopolitical events, including the evolving relations between U.S. and China and evolving relations with Russia due to the current hostilities between Russia and Ukraine, create uncertainty regarding our ability to market and distribute our products into non-U.S. jurisdictions and any failure to effectively anticipate or respond to such events could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. A portion of our global and U.S. sales are comprised of goods assembled and manufactured in our facilities in Taiwan and the Peoples Republic of China, and components for a number of our goods are sourced from suppliers in the Peoples Republic of China. When tariffs, duties, or other restrictions are placed on goods imported into the United States from China or any related counter-measures are taken by China, our revenue and results of operations may be materially harmed. In recent years, the U.S. Government has imposed increases to the ad valorem duties applicable to certain products imported from China, including increases of up to 25% for some items. We are actively addressing the risks related to these additional duties, which have affected, or have the potential to affect, at least some of our imports from China. Although we have already taken some steps to mitigate these risks, including by moving a significant portion of our manufacturing and assembly to Vietnam and other areas in the Asia Pacific region outside of China, if these duties are imposed, the cost of our products may increase. These duties may also make our products more expensive for consumers, which may reduce consumer demand. We may need to offset the financial impact by, among other things, moving even more of our product manufacturing to other locations, modifying other business practices or raising prices. If we are not successful in offsetting the impact of any such duties, our revenue, gross margins, and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of technology and other companies, including recently in connection with the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, which may be unrelated to the financial performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock . Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock include: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations or our competitors operating results; actual or anticipated changes in the growth rate of the connected lifestyle market, our growth rate or our competitors growth rates; delays in the introduction of new products by us or market acceptance of these products; conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic; 35 Table of Contents changes in governmental regulation, including taxation and tariff policies; interest rate or currency exchange rate fluctuations; our ability to forecast or report accurate financial results; and changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies, or our industry generally. We depend substantially on our sales channels, and our failure to maintain and expand our sales channels would result in lower sales and reduced revenue. To maintain and grow our market share, revenue, and brand, we must maintain and expand our sales channels. Our sales channels consist primarily of traditional retailers, online retailers, and wholesale distributors, but also include service providers such as wireless carriers and telecommunications providers. We generally have no minimum purchase commitments or long-term contracts with any of these third parties. Traditional retailers have limited shelf space and promotional budgets, and competition is intense for these resources. A competitor with more extensive product lines and stronger brand identity may have greater bargaining power with these retailers. Any reduction in available shelf space or increased competition for such shelf space would require us to increase our marketing expenditures simply to maintain current levels of retail shelf space, which would harm our operating margin. Our traditional retail customers have faced increased and significant competition from online retailers. If we cannot effectively manage our business amongst our online customers and traditional retail customers, our business would be harmed. The recent trend in the consolidation of online retailers has resulted in intensified competition for preferred product placement, such as product placement on an online retailers internet home page. In addition, our efforts to realign or consolidate our sales channels may cause temporary disruptions in our product sales and revenue, and these efforts may not result in the expected longer-term benefits that prompted them. In addition, to the extent our retail and distributor channel partners supply products that compete with our own, it is possible that these channel partners may choose not to offer our products to end-users or to offer our products to end-users on less favorable terms, including with respect to product placement. If this were to occur, we may not be able to increase or maintain our sales, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. For example, Amazon, one of our primary retailers, produces the Amazon Cloud Cam, which competes with our security camera products, and also acquired two of our competitors, Blink and Ring. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we derived 7.6% of our revenue from Amazon and its affiliates. We must also continuously monitor and evaluate emerging sales channels. If we fail to establish a presence in an important developing sales channel, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we do not effectively manage our sales channel inventory and product mix, we may incur costs associated with excess inventory, or lose sales from having too few products. If we are unable to properly monitor, control, and manage our sales channel inventory and maintain an appropriate level and mix of products with our distributors and within our sales channels, we may incur increased and unexpected costs associated with this inventory. We generally allow distributors and traditional retailers to return a limited amount of our products in exchange for other products. Under our price protection policy, if we reduce the list price of a product, we are often required to issue a credit in an amount equal to the reduction for each of the products held in inventory by our wholesale distributors and retailers. If our wholesale distributors and retailers are unable to sell their inventory in a timely manner, we might lower the price of the products, or these parties may exchange the products for newer products. Also, during the transition from an existing product to a new replacement product, we must accurately predict the demand for the existing and the new product. 36 Table of Contents We determine production levels based on our forecasts of demand for our products. Actual demand for our products depends on many factors, which makes it difficult to forecast. We have experienced differences between our actual and our forecasted demand in the past and expect differences to arise in the future. If we improperly forecast demand for our products, we could end up with too many products and be unable to sell the excess inventory in a timely manner, if at all, or, alternatively, we could end up with too few products and not be able to satisfy demand. This problem is exacerbated because we attempt to closely match inventory levels with product demand, leaving limited margin for error. If these events occur, we could incur increased expenses associated with writing off excessive or obsolete inventory, lose sales, incur penalties for late delivery, or have to ship products by air freight to meet immediate demand, thereby incurring incremental freight costs above the sea freight costs, a preferred method, and suffering a corresponding decline in gross margin. If we are unable to secure and protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete could be harmed. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent, and trade secret laws, nondisclosure agreements with employees, consultants, and suppliers, and other contractual provisions to establish, maintain, and protect our intellectual property and technology. Despite efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized third parties may attempt to design around, copy aspects of our product design or obtain and use technology or other intellectual property associated with our products. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technology or design around our intellectual property. Our inability to secure and protect our intellectual property rights could materially adversely affect our brand and business, results of operations, and financial condition. We rely upon third parties for technology that is critical to our products, and if we are unable to continue to use this technology and future technology, our ability to develop, sell, maintain, and support technologically innovative products would be limited. We rely on third parties to obtain non-exclusive patented hardware and software license rights in technologies that are incorporated into and necessary for the operation and functionality of most of our products. In these cases, because the intellectual property we license is available from third parties, barriers to entry into certain markets may be lower for potential or existing competitors than if we owned exclusive rights to the technology that we license and use. Moreover, if a competitor or potential competitor enters into an exclusive arrangement with any of our key third-party technology providers, or if any of these providers unilaterally decides not to do business with us for any reason, our ability to develop and sell products containing that technology would be severely limited. In addition, certain of Arlos firmware and the AI-based algorithms that we use in our Arlo Secure services incorporate open source software, the licenses for which may include customary requirements for, and restrictions on, use of the open source software. If we are offering products or services that contain third-party technology that we subsequently lose the right to license, then we will not be able to continue to offer or support those products or services. In addition, these licenses may require royalty payments or other consideration to the third-party licensor. Our success will depend, in part, on our continued ability to access these technologies, and we do not know whether these third-party technologies will continue to be licensed to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, if these third-party licensors fail or experience instability, then we may be unable to continue to sell products and services that incorporate the licensed technologies, in addition to being unable to continue to maintain and support these products and services. We do require escrow arrangements with respect to certain third-party software which entitle us to certain limited rights to the source code, in the event of certain failures by the third party, in order to maintain and support such software. However, there is no guarantee that we would be able to fully understand and use the source code, as we may not have the expertise to do so. We are increasingly exposed to these risks as we continue to develop and market more products containing third-party technology and software. If we are unable to license the necessary technology, we may be forced to acquire or develop alternative technology, which could be of lower quality or performance standards. The acquisition or development of alternative technology may limit and delay our ability to offer new or competitive products and services and increase our costs of production. As a result, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents We also utilize third-party software development companies and contractors to develop, customize, maintain, and support software that is incorporated into our products and services. If these companies and contractors fail to timely deliver or continuously maintain and support the software, as we require of them, we may experience delays in releasing new products and services or difficulties with supporting existing products, services, and our users. Our sales and operations in international markets expose us to operational, financial and regulatory risks. International sales comprise a significant amount of our overall revenue. International sales were 38.9% and 27.5% of overall revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. We continue to be committed to growing our international sales, and while we have committed resources to expanding our international operations and sales channels, these efforts may not be successful and could be impacted by COVID-19 pandemic. International operations are subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to: exchange rate fluctuations; political and economic instability, international terrorism, and anti-American sentiment, particularly in emerging markets; potential for violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as those related to bribery and fraud; preference for locally branded products, and laws and business practices favoring local competition; potential consequences of, and uncertainty related to, the Brexit process in the United Kingdom, which could lead to additional expense and complexity in doing business there; increased difficulty in managing inventory; delayed revenue recognition; less effective protection of intellectual property; stringent consumer protection and product compliance regulations, including but not limited to General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union, European competition law, the Restriction of Hazardous Substances directive, the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment directive and the European Ecodesign directive, that are costly to comply with and may vary from country to country; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; business difficulties, including potential bankruptcy or liquidation, of any of our worldwide third-party logistics providers; and changes in local tax and customs duty laws or changes in the enforcement, application, or interpretation of such laws. We are also required to comply with local environmental legislation, and those who sell our products rely on this compliance in order to sell our products. If those who sell our products do not agree with our interpretations and requirements of new legislation, they may cease to order our products and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Governmental regulations of imports or exports affecting internet security could affect our revenue. Any additional governmental regulation of imports or exports or failure to obtain required export approval of our 38 Table of Contents encryption technologies could adversely affect our international and domestic sales. The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements, and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, particularly encryption technology. In addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. In response to terrorist activity, governments could enact additional regulation or restriction on the use, import, or export of encryption technology. This additional regulation of encryption technology could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications, resulting in decreased demand for our products and services. In addition, some foreign competitors are subject to less stringent controls on exporting their encryption technologies. As a result, they may be able to compete more effectively than we can in the United States and the international internet security market. We are involved in litigation matters in the ordinary course and may in the future become involved in additional litigation, including litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could be costly and subject us to significant liability. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding infringement of patents, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted, and may continue to assert, exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights against us, demanding license or royalty payments or seeking payment for damages, injunctive relief, and other available legal remedies through litigation. These also include third-party non-practicing entities who claim to own patents or other intellectual property that they believe cover our products. If we are unable to resolve these matters or obtain licenses on acceptable or commercially reasonable terms, we could be sued or we may be forced to initiate litigation to protect our rights. The cost of any necessary licenses and litigation related to alleged infringement could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In the event successful claims of infringement are brought by third parties, and we are unable to obtain licenses or independently develop alternative technology on a timely basis, we may be subject to indemnification obligations, be unable to offer competitive products, or be subject to increased expenses. If we do not resolve these claims on a favorable basis, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As part of growing our business, we may make acquisitions. If we fail to successfully select, execute, or integrate our acquisitions, then our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and our stock price could decline. From time to time, we may undertake acquisitions to add new product and service lines and technologies, acquire talent, gain new sales channels, or enter into new sales territories. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and challenges, including relating to the successful integration of the acquired business, entering into new territories or markets with which we have limited or no prior experience, establishing or maintaining business relationships with new retailers, distributors, or other channel partners, vendors, and suppliers, and potential post-closing disputes. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in selecting, executing, and integrating acquisitions. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if stock market analysts or our stockholders do not support or believe in the value of the acquisitions that we choose to undertake, our stock price may decline. The success of our business depends on customers continued and unimpeded access to our platform on the internet. Our users must have internet access in order to use our platform. Some providers may take measures that affect their customers ability to use our platform, such as degrading the quality of the data packets we transmit over their lines, giving those packets lower priority, giving other packets higher priority than ours, blocking our packets entirely, or attempting to charge their customers more for using our platform. 39 Table of Contents In December 2010, the Federal Communications Commission (the FCC), adopted net neutrality rules barring internet providers from blocking or slowing down access to online content, protecting services like ours from such interference. Recently, the FCC voted in favor of repealing the net neutrality rules, and it is currently uncertain how the U.S. Congress will respond to this decision. To the extent network operators attempt to interfere with our services, extract fees from us to deliver our solution, or otherwise engage in discriminatory practices, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Within such a regulatory environment, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our domestic and international growth, cause us to incur additional expense, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our future profitability. Factors that could materially affect our future effective tax rates include, but are not limited to: changes in tax laws or the regulatory environment; changes in the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets; increases in interests and penalties related to income taxes; changes in accounting and tax standards or practices; changes in the composition of operating income by tax jurisdiction; and changes in our operating results before taxes. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Because we do not have a long history of operating as a separate company after the Separation from NETGEAR and we have significant expansion plans, our effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future. Future effective tax rates could be affected by operating losses in jurisdictions where no tax benefit can be recognized under GAAP, changes in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates, changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws. As of December 31, 2021, our U.S. federal and state net operating loss carryforwards were approximately $109.3 million and approximately $62.5 million, respectively. Moreover, our U.S. federal and state research and development tax credits were approximately $4.7 million and approximately $3.8 million, respectively. The utilization of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be subject to annual limitation due to ownership changes as provided by Sections 382 and 383 of the Code and similar state provisions. Such an annual limitation could result in the expiration of portions of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards before utilization. In the event that we experience ownership changes due to future transactions in our stocks, the utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards to reduce our future taxable income and tax liabilities may be limited, which could affect our profitability. The Internal Revenue Services ("IRS") and several foreign tax authorities have increasingly focused attention on intercompany transfer pricing with respect to sales of products and services and the use of intangibles. Tax authorities could disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters and assess additional taxes. If we do not prevail in any such disagreements, our profitability may be affected. In addition, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) has been working on new laws on the taxation of the digital economy to provide taxing rights to jurisdictions where the customers or users are located. Some countries have enacted, and others have proposed the new laws to tax digital transactions. These developments may result in material impacts to our financial statements. 40 Table of Contents We are subject to income tax examinations by taxing authorities globally. We apply judgment in determining our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. While we believe our estimates are reasonably adequate, there are many transactions where the final tax determination is uncertain. If any adverse outcome from an examination determines the taxes we owe are higher than accrued or drives an increase in our effective tax rates, our results of operations could be affected. We must comply with indirect tax laws in multiple jurisdictions, as well as complex customs duty regimes worldwide. Audits of our compliance with these rules may result in additional liabilities for taxes, duties, interest and penalties related to our international operations which would reduce our profitability. Our operations are routinely subject to audit by tax authorities in various countries. Many countries have indirect tax systems where the sale and purchase of goods and services are subject to tax based on the transaction value. These taxes are commonly referred to as value-added tax (VAT) or goods and services tax (GST). In addition, the distribution of our products subjects us to numerous complex customs regulations, which frequently change over time. Failure to comply with these systems and regulations can result in the assessment of additional taxes, duties, interest, and penalties. While we believe we are in compliance with local laws, we cannot assure that tax and customs authorities will agree with our reporting positions and upon audit such tax and customs authorities may assess additional taxes, duties, interest, and penalties against us. Adverse action by any government agencies related to indirect tax laws could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to governmental export and import controls, economic sanctions, and anti-corruption laws regulations, that could impair our ability to compete in international markets and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws. Our business activities are subject to various restrictions under U.S. export controls and similar laws and regulations, including the Export Administration Regulations and economic sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. We also incorporate encryption technology into certain of our solutions. These encryption solutions and underlying technology may be exported outside of the United States only with the required export authorizations or exceptions, including by license, a license exception, appropriate classification notification requirement, and encryption authorization. Furthermore, our activities are subject to U.S. economic sanctions laws and regulations that prohibit the shipment of certain products and services without the required export authorizations, including to countries, governments, and persons targeted by U.S. embargoes or sanctions. Obtaining the necessary export license or other authorization for a particular sale may be time consuming, and may result in delay or loss of sales opportunities even if the export license ultimately is granted. While we take precautions to prevent our solutions from being exported in violation of these laws, including using authorizations or exceptions for our encryption products and implementing IP address blocking and screenings against U.S. government and international lists of restricted and prohibited persons and countries, we have not been able to guarantee, and cannot guarantee, that the precautions we take will prevent all violations of export control and sanctions laws, including if purchasers of our products bring our products and services into sanctioned countries without our knowledge. Violations of U.S. sanctions or export control laws can result in significant fines or penalties and incarceration could be imposed on employees and managers for criminal violations of these laws. Also, various countries, in addition to the United States, regulate the import and export of certain encryption and other technology, including import and export licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products and services or our end-users ability to utilize our solutions in their countries. Changes in our products and services or changes in import and export regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets. Any decreased use of our solutions or limitation on our ability to export or sell our solutions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to various domestic and international anti-corruption laws, such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as other similar anti-bribery laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their employees and intermediaries from authorizing, offering, providing, and accepting improper 41 Table of Contents payments or benefits for improper purposes. These laws also require that we keep accurate books and records and maintain compliance procedures designed to prevent any such actions. Although we take precautions to prevent violations of these laws, our exposure for violating these laws increases as our international presence expands and as we increase sales and operations in foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to, and must remain in compliance with, numerous laws and governmental regulations concerning the manufacturing, use, distribution, and sale of our products, as well as any such future laws and regulations. Some of our customers also require that we comply with their own unique requirements relating to these matters. Any failure to comply with such laws, regulations, and requirements, and any associated unanticipated costs, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We manufacture and sell products which contain electronic components, and such components may contain materials that are subject to government regulation in both the locations where we manufacture and assemble our products, as well as the locations where we sell our products. For example, certain regulations limit the use of lead in electronic components. To our knowledge, we maintain compliance with all applicable current government regulations concerning the materials utilized in our products for all the locations in which we operate. Since we operate on a global basis, this is a complex process which requires continual monitoring of regulations and an ongoing compliance process to ensure that we and our suppliers are in compliance with all existing regulations. There are areas where new regulations have been enacted which could increase our cost of the components that we utilize or require us to expend additional resources to ensure compliance. For example, the SECs conflict minerals rules apply to our business, and we are expending resources to ensure compliance. The implementation of these requirements by government regulators and our partners and/or customers could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of certain components used in our products. In addition, the supply-chain due diligence investigation required by the conflict minerals rules will require expenditures of resources and management attention regardless of the results of the investigation. If there is an unanticipated new regulation which significantly impacts our use of various components or requires more expensive components, that regulation could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. One area that has a large number of regulations is environmental compliance. Management of environmental pollution and climate change has produced significant legislative and regulatory efforts on a global basis, and we believe this will continue both in scope and in the number of countries participating. These changes could directly increase the cost of energy, which may have an impact on the way we manufacture products or utilize energy to produce our products. In addition, any new regulations or laws in the environmental area might increase the cost of raw materials we use in our products. Environmental regulations require us to reduce product energy usage, monitor and exclude an expanding list of restricted substances, and participate in required recovery and recycling of our products. While future changes in regulations are certain, we are currently unable to predict how any such changes will impact us and if such impacts will be material to our business. If there is a new law or regulation that significantly increases our costs of manufacturing or causes us to significantly alter the way that we manufacture our products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our selling and distribution practices are also regulated in large part by U.S. federal and state as well as foreign, antitrust and competition laws and regulations. In general, the objective of these laws is to promote and maintain free competition by prohibiting certain forms of conduct that tend to restrict production, raise prices or otherwise control the market for goods or services to the detriment of consumers of those goods and services. Potentially prohibited activities under these laws may include unilateral conduct or conduct undertaken as the result of an agreement with one or more of our suppliers, competitors, or customers. The potential for liability under these laws can be difficult to predict as it often depends on a finding that the challenged conduct resulted in harm to competition, such as higher prices, restricted supply, or a reduction in the quality or variety of products available to consumers. We utilize a number of different distribution channels to deliver our products to customers and end-users and regularly enter into agreements with resellers of our products at various levels in the distribution chain that could be subject to scrutiny under these laws in the event of private litigation or an investigation by a governmental competition authority. In addition, many of our products are sold to consumers via the internet. Many of the competition-related laws that govern these internet sales were adopted prior to the advent of the internet and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by online sales. New interpretations of existing laws and regulations, whether by courts or by the state, federal, or foreign governmental 42 Table of Contents authorities charged with the enforcement of those laws and regulations, may also impact our business in ways we are currently unable to predict. Any failure on our part or on the part of our employees, agents, distributors, or other business partners to comply with the laws and regulations governing competition can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant litigation liabilities and other penalties. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and sublease counterparties and to credit exposures in certain markets, which could result in material losses. A substantial portion of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 to 60 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual customer financial viability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Any bankruptcies or illiquidity among our customer base or sublease counterparties could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To the degree that turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers or sublease counterparties to obtain financing, our customers or sublease counterparties' ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In June, 2021, we entered into a sublease agreement, with a term that runs concurrent with the term of the head lease, for our San Jose office space in light of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the changing nature of office space use by our workforce. We believe we have secured a quality subtenant with appropriate sublease terms. However, if the subtenant default on their sublease obligations with us or otherwise terminate their sublease with us, we may experience a loss of planned sublease rental income, which could result in a material charge against our operating results. If that were to happen, we may be unable to enter into a new sublease on acceptable terms or at all and even if we do, such sublease may result in our incurring liabilities and expenses in future periods or the rent payments we receive from a new subtenant being less than our rent obligations under the head lease. Under these circumstances, we would be responsible for any shortfall. If our products are not compatible with some or all leading third-party IoT products and protocols, we could be materially adversely affected. A core part of our solution is the interoperability of our platform with third-party IoT products and protocols. We have designed the Arlo platform to seamlessly integrate with third-party IoT products and protocols, such as Amazon Alexa, Apple HomeKit, Apple TV, Google Assistant, IFTTT, Stringify, and Samsung SmartThings. If these third parties were to alter their products, we could be adversely impacted if we fail to timely create compatible versions of our products, and such incompatibility could negatively impact the adoption of our products and solutions. A lack of interoperability may also result in significant redesign costs, and harm relations with our customers. Further, the mere announcement of an incompatibility problem relating to our products could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, to the extent our competitors supply products that compete with our own, it is possible these competitors could design their technologies to be closed or proprietary systems that are incompatible with our products or work less effectively with our products than their own. As a result, end-users may have an incentive to purchase products that are compatible with the products and technologies of our competitors over our products. The marketability of our products may suffer if wireless telecommunications operators do not deliver acceptable wireless services. The success of our business depends, in part, on the capacity, affordability, reliability, and prevalence of wireless data networks provided by wireless telecommunications operators and on which our IoT hardware products and solutions operate. Growth in demand for wireless data access may be limited if, for example, wireless telecommunications operators 43 Table of Contents cease or materially curtail operations, fail to offer services that customers consider valuable at acceptable prices, fail to maintain sufficient capacity to meet demand for wireless data access, delay the expansion of their wireless networks and services, fail to offer and maintain reliable wireless network services, or fail to market their services effectively. We are exposed to adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations in jurisdictions where we transact in local currency, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Although a portion of our international sales are currently invoiced in U.S. dollars, we have implemented and continue to implement for certain countries and customers both invoicing and payment in foreign currencies. Our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. dollar-denominated sales primarily in Australia, as well as our global operations, and non-U.S. dollar-denominated operating expenses and certain assets and liabilities. In addition, weaknesses in foreign currencies for U.S. dollar-denominated sales could adversely affect demand for our products. Conversely, a strengthening in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar could increase foreign currency-denominated costs. As a result, we may attempt to renegotiate pricing of existing contracts or request payment to be made in U.S. dollars. We cannot be sure that our customers would agree to renegotiate along these lines. This could result in customers eventually terminating contracts with us or in our decision to terminate certain contracts, which would adversely affect our sales. We established a hedging program after our initial public offering (the "IPO") to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as a response to the risk of changes in the value of foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. We may enter into foreign currency forward contracts or other instruments. We expect that such foreign currency forward contracts will reduce, but will not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. For example, we may not execute forward contracts in all currencies in which we conduct business. In addition, we may hedge to reduce the impact of volatile exchange rates on revenue, gross profit and operating profit for limited periods of time. However, the use of these hedging activities may only offset a portion of the adverse financial effect resulting from unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates. Risks Related to Our Separation from NETGEAR If the Distribution (as defined below), together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, NETGEAR, Arlo and Arlo stockholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities, and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify NETGEAR for material taxes and other related amounts pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement. In November 2018, NETGEAR announced that its board of directors had approved a special stock dividend (the Distribution) to its stockholders, consisting of 62,500,000 shares of our common stock owned by NETGEAR. In connection with the Distribution, NETGEAR received an opinion from outside tax counsel regarding qualification of the Distribution, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. The opinion was based upon and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of NETGEAR and us, including those relating to the past and future conduct of NETGEAR and us. If any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, incomplete or inaccurate, or if we or NETGEAR breach any of the respective covenants in any of the separation-related agreements, the opinion of the outside tax counsel could be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. Notwithstanding the opinion of the outside tax counsel, the IRS could determine on an audit that the Distribution, together with certain related transactions, should be taxable if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings were incorrect or had been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. The opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and we cannot assure that the IRS or a court 44 Table of Contents would not assert a contrary position. NETGEAR has not requested, and does not intend to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to the treatment of the Distribution or certain related transactions for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The consolidated U.S. federal income tax return for the calendar year 2018 that we filed with NETGEAR to report the Distribution together with certain related transactions is currently under audit by the IRS. If the Distribution, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, in general, NETGEAR would recognize taxable gain as if it had sold our common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and NETGEAR stockholders who receive shares of our common stock in the Distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. We entered into the tax matters agreement with NETGEAR to indemnify NETGEAR for any taxes (and any related costs and other damages) resulting from the Separation and Distribution, and certain other related transactions, to the extent such amounts were to result from (i) an acquisition after the Distribution of all or a portion of our equity securities, whether by merger or otherwise (and regardless of whether we participated in or otherwise facilitated the acquisition), (ii) other actions or failures to act by us or (iii) any of the representations or undertakings contained in any of the Separation-related agreements or in the documents relating to the opinion of counsel being incorrect or violated. Any such indemnity obligations arising under the tax matters agreement could be material. NETGEAR has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, we cannot assure that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that NETGEARs ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. Pursuant to the master separation agreement entered into between us and NETGEAR and certain other agreements with NETGEAR, NETGEAR has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. The master separation agreement provides for cross-indemnities principally designed to place financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of our business with us and financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of NETGEARs business with NETGEAR. Under the intellectual property rights cross-license agreement entered into between us and NETGEAR, each party, in its capacity as a licensee, indemnifies the other party, in its capacity as a licensor, as well as its directors, officers, agents, successors and subsidiaries against any losses suffered by such indemnified party as a result of the indemnifying partys practice of the intellectual property licensed to such indemnifying party under the intellectual property rights cross-license agreement. Also, under the tax matters agreement entered into between us and NETGEAR, each party is liable for, and indemnifies the other party and its subsidiaries from and against any liability for, taxes that are allocated to such party under the tax matters agreement. In addition, we have agreed in the tax matters agreement that each party will generally be responsible for any taxes and related amounts imposed on us or NETGEAR as a result of the failure of the Distribution, together with certain related transactions, to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) and certain other relevant provisions of the Code, to the extent that the failure to so qualify is attributable to actions, events or transactions relating to such partys respective stock, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant representations or covenants made by that party in the tax matters agreement. The transition services agreement generally provides that the applicable service recipient indemnifies the applicable service provider for liabilities that such service provider incurs arising from the provision of services other than liabilities arising from such service providers gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct or material breach of the transition services agreement, and that the applicable service provider indemnifies the applicable service recipient for liabilities that such service recipient incurs arising from such service providers gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct or material breach of the transition services agreement. Pursuant to the registration rights agreement, we have agreed to indemnify NETGEAR and its subsidiaries that hold registrable securities (and their directors, officers, agents and, if applicable, each other person who controls such holder under Section 15 of the Securities Act) registering shares pursuant to the registration rights agreement against certain losses, expenses and liabilities under the Securities Act, common law or otherwise. NETGEAR and its subsidiaries that hold registrable securities similarly indemnify us but such indemnification will be limited to an amount equal to the net proceeds received by such holder under the sale of registrable securities giving rise to the indemnification obligation. 45 Table of Contents However, third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that NETGEAR has agreed to retain, and we cannot assure that an indemnity from NETGEAR will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that NETGEAR will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. Even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from NETGEAR any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. Each of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock We may change our dividend policy at any time. Although we currently intend to retain future earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business and therefore do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future, our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. The declaration and amount of any future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law and after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, current and anticipated cash needs, cash flows, impact on our effective tax rate, indebtedness, contractual obligations, legal requirements, and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will pay dividends at any rate or at all. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of our common stock may depress the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline significantly as a result of sales or other distributions of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market. The perception that these sales might occur could depress the market price of our common stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. The 11,747,250 shares of our common stock sold in the IPO are freely tradable in the public market. On December 31, 2018, NETGEAR completed the Distribution to its stockholders of the 62,500,000 shares of Arlo common stock that it owned. As of December 31, 2021, we have 84,453,212 shares of common stock outstanding. In the future, we may issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of our common stock. Any impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets, and long-lived assets could negatively impact our results of operations. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered when determining if the carrying value of our goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets may not be recoverable include a significant decline in our expected future cash flows or a sustained, significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization. If, in any period our stock price decreases to the point where the fair value of our assets (as partially indicated by our market capitalization) is less than our book value, this could indicate a potential impairment and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on projections of future operating performance. We operate in highly competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. As a result, we may incur substantial impairment charges to earnings in our financial statements should an impairment of our goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets be determined resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. If there is a decline in the Companys stock price based on market conditions and deterioration of the 46 Table of Contents Companys business, the Company may have to record a charge to its earnings for the associated goodwill impairment of up to $11.0 million. We are subject to securities class action and derivative litigation. We are subject to various securities class action and derivative complaints, as more fully discussed in the heading under Litigation and Other Legal Matters in Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Regardless of the merits or ultimate results of the above-described litigation matters, they could result in substantial costs, which would hurt the Company's financial condition and results of operations and divert managements attention and resources from our business. At this point, however, it is too early to reasonably estimate any financial impact to the Company resulting from these litigation matters. Your percentage ownership in Arlo may be diluted in the future. In the future, your percentage ownership in Arlo may be diluted because of equity awards that Arlo may grant to Arlos directors, officers, and employees or otherwise as a result of equity issuances for acquisitions or capital market transactions. In addition, following the Distribution, Arlo and NETGEAR employees hold awards in respect of shares of our common stock as a result of the conversion of certain NETGEAR stock awards (in whole or in part) to Arlo stock awards in connection with the Distribution. Such awards have a dilutive effect on Arlos earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of Arlo common stock. From time to time, Arlo will issue additional stock-based awards to its employees under Arlos employee benefits plans. In addition, Arlos amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes Arlo to issue, without the approval of Arlos stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over Arlos common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as Arlos board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, Arlo could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of Arlos directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences that Arlo could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. We are an emerging growth company, and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common shares less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Act ("JOBS Act"). For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including exemption from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 ("Section 404"), reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (1) December 31, 2023, (2) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual revenue of at least $1.07 billion, (3) the last day of the fiscal year in which we become a large accelerated filer, which means that we have been public for at least 12 months, have filed at least one annual report and the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last day of our then most recently completed second fiscal quarter, or (4) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. Even after we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, we may still qualify as a smaller reporting company, which would allow us to take advantage of many of the same exemptions from disclosure requirements 47 Table of Contents including exemption from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our share price may be more volatile. Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of Arlo, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting; the inability of our stockholders to act without a meeting of stockholders; rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term, and this classified board provision could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent directors more time consuming and difficult; a provision that stockholders may only remove directors with cause while the board of directors is classified; and the ability of our directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors. In addition, because we have not elected to be exempt from Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the DGCL), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation (an interested stockholder) shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless (i) prior to such time, the board of directors of such corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; (ii) upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of such corporation at the time the transaction commenced (excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) the voting stock owned by directors who are also officers or held in employee benefit plans in which the employees do not have a confidential right to tender or vote stock held by the plan); or (iii) on or subsequent to such time the business combination is approved by the board of directors of such corporation and authorized at a meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation not owned by the interested stockholder. We believe these provisions will protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more 48 Table of Contents time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make Arlo immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of Arlo and its stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains exclusive forum provisions that may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that unless the board of directors otherwise determines, the state courts in the State of Delaware or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the District of Delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for the following types of actions or proceedings under Delaware statutory or common law: any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of Arlo, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director or officer of Arlo to Arlo or Arlos stockholders, any action asserting a claim against Arlo or any director or officer of Arlo arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or Arlos amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against Arlo or any director or officer of Arlo governed by the internal affairs doctrine under Delaware law. This provision would not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Exchange Act. Furthermore, Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all such Securities Act actions. Accordingly, both state and federal courts have jurisdiction to entertain such claims. To prevent having to litigate claims in multiple jurisdictions and the threat of inconsistent or contrary rulings by different courts, among other considerations, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation further provides that the federal district courts of the United States will be the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. While the Delaware courts have determined that such choice of forum provisions are facially valid, a stockholder may nevertheless seek to bring a claim in a venue other than those designated in the exclusive forum provisions. In such instance, we would expect to vigorously assert the validity and enforceability of the exclusive forum provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. This may require significant additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions and there can be no assurance that the provisions will be enforced by a court in those other jurisdictions. These exclusive forum provisions may limit the ability of Arlos stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with Arlo or Arlos directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against Arlo and Arlos directors and officers. Alternatively, if a court were to find one or more of these exclusive forum provisions inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, Arlo may incur further significant additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions or forums, all of which could materially and adversely affect Arlos business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our board of directors has the ability to issue blank check preferred stock, which may discourage or impede acquisition attempts or other transactions. Our board of directors has the power, subject to applicable law, to issue series of preferred stock that could, depending on the terms of the series, impede the completion of a merger, tender offer or other takeover attempt. For instance, subject to applicable law, a series of preferred stock may impede a business combination by including class voting rights, which would enable the holder or holders of such series to block a proposed transaction. Our board of directors will make any determination to issue shares of preferred stock on its judgment as to our and our stockholders best interests. Our board of directors, in so acting, could issue shares of preferred stock having terms which could discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders may believe to be in their best interests or in which stockholders would have received a premium for their stock over the then prevailing market price of the stock. 49 Table of Contents General Risks The market price of our common stock could be volatile and is influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock could be volatile and is influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above in Risks Related to Our Business and the following: the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; the inability to meet the financial estimates of securities analysts who follow our common stock or changes in earnings estimates by analysts; strategic actions by us or our competitors; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results and those of our competitors; general economic and stock market conditions; the public reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; risks related to our business and our industry, including those discussed above; changes in conditions or trends in our industry, markets or customers; the trading volume of our common stock; future sales of our common stock or other securities; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives. In particular, the realization of any of the risks described in these Risk Factors could have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock in the future and cause the value of your investment to decline. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of our common stock is low. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management devotes substantial time to complying with public company regulations. Prior to the Separation, we historically operated our business as a segment of a public company. As a standalone public company, we have additional legal, accounting, insurance, compliance, and other expenses that we had not incurred historically. We are obligated to file with the SEC annual and quarterly reports and other reports that are specified in Section 13 and other sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We are also required to ensure that we have the ability to prepare financial statements that are fully compliant with all SEC reporting 50 Table of Contents requirements on a timely basis. In addition, we are and will continue to become subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including certain requirements of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), and certain provisions of the Section 404 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which will impose significant compliance obligations upon us. Section 404, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, have imposed increased regulation and disclosure and required enhanced corporate governance practices of public companies. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard are likely to result in increased selling and administrative expenses and a diversion of managements time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. These changes will require a significant commitment of additional resources. We may not be successful in implementing these requirements and implementing them could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we fail to implement the requirements with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, our ability to report our operating results on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired. If we do not implement such requirements in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC and the NYSE. Any such action could harm our reputation and the confidence of investors and customers in us and could materially adversely affect our business and cause our share price to fall. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price. As a public company, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Upon loss of status as an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act, an annual report by our independent registered public accounting firm that addresses the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting will be required. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet our deadline for compliance with Section 404. Testing and maintaining internal control can divert our managements attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. We also expect the regulations under Section 404 to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified officers and members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and make some activities more difficult, time consuming, and costly. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or their effect on our operations because there is presently no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If either we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting or our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404, then investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock, or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research, reports and recommendations that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. 51 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties We are a global company with corporate headquarters located in Carlsbad, California, where we occupy approximately 63,500 square feet of office space pursuant to a lease agreement that expires in November 2024. We also lease approximately 77,800 square feet of office space in San Jose pursuant to a lease agreement that expires in June 2029. In June 2021, we entered into a sublease agreement, with a term that runs concurrent with the term of the head lease, for our San Jose office space in light of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the changing nature of office space use by our workforce. During fiscal 2021, our international sales personnel were based out of local sales offices or home offices in Australia and Canada. Our international operations personnel use leased facilities in Hong Kong. We maintain our marketing and research and development facilities in San Jose (the United States), Irvine (the United States), Carlsbad (the United States), Richmond (Canada) and Taipei (Taiwan). In addition, we use third parties to provide warehousing services to us, consisting of facilities in Southern California, Texas, Tennessee, Mexico and Hong Kong. We also lease office space in Cork, Ireland. We believe that the facilities described above are suitable and adequate for our present purposes and that the productive capacity in our facilities is substantially being utilized or we have plans to utilize it. Beginning in March 2020, our employees across all geographic regions have shifted to working from home due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Our focus remains on promoting employee health and safety as we carefully evaluate reopening plans and timelines. As of December 31, 2021, we have not terminated any significant lease arrangements. We believe our facilities are adequate for the conduct of our business should we decide to reopen our facilities in the next twelve months. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject to legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. Our material legal proceedings are described under the heading Litigation and Other Legal Matters in Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Item 1A, Risk Factors. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 52 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol ARLO. Holders of Common Stock On February 25, 2022, we had 9 stockholders of record of our common stock. The number of record holders is based upon the actual number of holders registered on our books at such date and does not include holders of shares in street names or persons, partnerships, associations, corporations or other entities identified in security position listings maintained by depository trust companies, and we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. Dividends We have not historically declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans See Item 12 of Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding information about securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities and Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer None. Stock Performance Graph Notwithstanding any statement to the contrary in any of our previous or future filings with the SEC, the following information relating to the price performance of our common stock shall not be deemed filed with the SEC or soliciting material under the Exchange Act and shall not be incorporated by reference into any such filings. The following graph shows a comparison from August 3, 2018 through December 31, 2021 of cumulative total return for our common stock, the NYSE Composite Index, the Standard and Poors 600 Information Technology Index, (S&P 600 Information Technology Index), the Standard and Poors Small Cap 600 Index (S&P Small Cap 600 Index) and the Russell 2000 Index. The measurement points in the graph below are August 3, 2018 (the first trading day of our common stock on the NYSE) and the last trading day of each fiscal quarter through the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in Arlo common stock at the closing price of $22.10 on August 3, 2018 and in the NYSE Composite Index, the S&P 600 Information Technology Index, the S&P Small Cap 600 Index and the Russell 2000 Index on August 3, 2018, and assumes reinvestment of any dividends. The stock price performance shown in the following graph is not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future stock price performance. 53 Table of Contents Item 6. [Reserved] 54 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations together with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes to the financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A above. We have elected to omit discussion on the earliest of the three years covered by the consolidated financial statements presented. Refer to Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, filed on February 26, 2021, for reference to discussion of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, the earliest of the three fiscal years presented. Business and Executive Overview Arlo combines an intelligent cloud infrastructure and mobile app with a variety of smart connected devices that is transforming the way people experience the connected lifestyle. Arlos deep expertise in product design, wireless connectivity, cloud infrastructure and cutting-edge AI capabilities focuses on delivering a seamless, smart home experience for Arlo users that is easy to setup and interact with every day. Our cloud-based platform provides users with visibility, insight and a powerful means to help protect and connect in real-time with the people and things that matter most, from any location with a Wi-Fi or a cellular connection. Since the launch of our first product in December 2014, we have shipped over 22.9 million smart connected devices, and as of December 31, 2021, our smart platform had approximately 6.1 million cumulative registered accounts across more than 100 countries around the world. We conduct business across three geographic regions-the Americas; Europe, Middle-East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific (APAC) and we primarily generate revenue by selling devices through retail, wholesale distribution, wireless carrier channels, security solution providers, Arlo's direct to consumer store and paid subscription services. International revenue was 38.9% and 27.5% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we generated revenue of $435.1 million and $357.2 million, respectively. Loss from operations was $60.1 million and $104.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Loss from operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 included separation expense of $1.6 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Our goal is to continue to develop innovative, world-class connected lifestyle solutions to expand and further monetize our current and future user and subscriber bases. We believe that the growth of our business is dependent on many factors, including our ability to innovate and launch successful new products on a timely basis and grow our installed base, to increase subscription-based recurring revenue, to invest in brand awareness and channel partnerships and to continue our global expansion. We expect to maintain our investment in research and development going forward as we continue to introduce new and innovative products and services to enhance the Arlo platform. Key Business Metrics In addition to the measures presented in our consolidated financial statements, we use the following key metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, develop financial forecasts and make strategic decisions. We believe these key business metrics provide useful information by offering the ability to make more meaningful period-to-period comparisons of our on-going operating results and a better understanding of how management plans and measures our underlying business. Our key business metrics may be calculated in a manner different from the same key business metrics used by other companies. We regularly review our processes for calculating these metrics, and from time to time we may 55 Table of Contents discover inaccuracies in our metrics or make adjustments to better reflect our business or to improve their accuracy, including adjustments that may result in the recalculation of our historical metrics. We believe that any such inaccuracies or adjustments are immaterial unless otherwise stated. Year Ended As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2021 % Change 2020 (In thousands, except percentage data) Cumulative registered accounts 6,131 21.5 % 5,047 Cumulative paid accounts 1,067 145.3 % 435 Annual recurring revenue $ 90,100 93.5 % $ 46,552 Cumulative Registered Accounts . We believe that our ability to increase our user base is an indicator of our market penetration and growth of our business as we continue to expand and innovate our Arlo platform. We define our registered accounts at the end of a particular period as the number of unique registered accounts on the Arlo platform as of the end of such particular period, and includes accounts owned by Verisure. The number of registered accounts does not necessarily reflect the number of end-users on the Arlo platform, as one registered account may be used by multiple people. We changed our definition from registered users to registered accounts starting in the fourth quarter of 2019 due to the Verisure transaction. Verisure will own the registered accounts but we will continue to provide services to these European customers under the Verisure Agreements. Cumulative Paid Accounts. Paid accounts worldwide measured as any account where a subscription to a paid service is being collected (either by the Company or by the Companys customers or channel partners), plus paid service plans of a duration of more than 3 months bundled with products (such bundles being counted as a paid account after 90 days have elapsed from the date of registration). In the fourth quarter of 2019, we redefined paid subscribers as paid accounts to include customers that were transferred to Verisure as part of the disposal of our commercial operations in Europe because we will continue to provide services to these European customers and receive payments associated with them, under the Verisure Agreements. Annual Recurring Revenue . Effective as of the third quarter of 2021, we adopted Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") as one of the key indicators of our business performance. We believe ARR enables measurement of our business initiatives, and serves as an indicator of our future growth. ARR represents the amount of paid service revenue that we expect to recur annually and is calculated by taking our recurring paid service revenue for the last calendar month in the fiscal quarter, multiplied by 12 months. Recurring paid service revenue represents the revenue we recognize from our paid accounts and excludes prepaid service revenue and NRE service revenue from strategic partners. The ARR for the comparative period presented was derived following the same methodology. ARR is a performance metric and should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue, and is not intended to be a substitute for, or combined with, any of these items. COVID-19 Effect on Financial Results We continue to closely monitor developments and are taking steps to mitigate the potential risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic to us, our employees and our customers. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business operations will depend on future developments, including the duration of the pandemic, the broader implications of the macro-economic recovery and the impact on overall customer demand, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. Our priorities and actions during the COVID-19 pandemic continue to be focused on protecting the health and safety of all those we serve, our employees, our customers, our suppliers and our communities, including implementing continuous updates to our health and safety policies and processes and progress made through vaccinations. We continue to instruct all but a limited number of our global workforce to work remotely as a precautionary measure intended to minimize the risk of the virus to them and the communities in which we operate, while we continue to focus on providing our team with the resources that they need to meet the needs of our customers and deliver new innovations to the markets we serve, despite challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic. We also continue to work with our suppliers to address any supply chain disruptions, which might include larger component backlogs, component cost increases, travel restrictions and logistics changes that can impact our operations. For example, increased demand for electronics as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, effects of the U.S. trade war with China, increased demand for chips in the automotive 56 Table of Contents industry and certain other factors have led to a global shortage of semiconductors. As a result, we have experienced component shortages, including longer lead times for components and supply constraints, that have affected both our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries and worldwide demand for our products. Also, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, our supply chain partners are limited by production capacity, constrained by material availability, labor shortages, factory uptime and freight capacity, each of which constrains our ability to capitalize fully on end market demand. The increased lead time in production due to component shortages and supply chain disruption brought our inventory down to a record low level at $38.4 million as of December 31, 2021. In addition, as of December 31, 2021, international freight capacity has dropped, causing air and ocean freight rates to materially increase. Furthermore, transit times have also increased, causing us to rely more on air freight in order to meet our customers' demands. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we saw a 138% increase in freight-in expense compared to the prior year, as a result of the higher sea and air freight rates and component shortages which necessitated use of air freight to meet customer requested delivery dates. We expect supply chain constraints to persist in 2022. While we have been broadly successful in navigating COVID-19 related challenges to date, any further disruptions brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic to our supply chain and operations could have a significant negative impact on our net revenue, gross and operating margin performance. In addition, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we could experience material charges from potential adjustments of the carrying value of our inventories and trade receivables, impairment charges on our long-lived assets, intangible assets and goodwill, and changes in the effectiveness of our hedging instruments, among others. During the second quarter of 2021, we evaluated our existing real estate lease portfolio in light the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the changing nature of office space use by our workforce. This evaluation resulted in the decision to sublease our office space in San Jose, California. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $9.1 million, which includes $6.8 million associated with the right-of-use assets and $2.3 million associated with other lease related property and equipment. Refer to Note 5, Balance Sheet Components in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information about the impairment of the right-of-use asset and long-lived assets. Throughout 2021, we remained focused on navigating these on-going challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic through preserving our liquidity and managing our cash flow through taking preemptive action to enhance our ability to meet our short-term liquidity needs. These actions include, but are not limited to, proactively managing working capital by closely monitoring customers' credit and collections, renegotiating payment terms with third-party manufacturers and key suppliers, closely monitoring inventory levels and purchases against forecasted demand, reducing or eliminating non-essential spending, and subleasing excess office space. We continue to monitor this rapidly developing situation and may, as necessary, reduce expenditures further, borrow under our revolving credit facility, or pursue other sources of capital that may include other forms of external financing in order to maintain our cash position and preserve financial flexibility in response to the uncertainty in the United States and global markets resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Components of Our Operating Results Revenue Our gross revenue consists primarily of sales of devices, prepaid and paid service revenue and NRE service revenue from Verisure. We generally recognize revenue from product sales at the time the product is shipped and transfer of control from us to the customer occurs. Our first generation camera products under our old business model come with a prepaid service that provides users with rolling seven-day cloud video storage, the ability to connect up to five cameras and 90 days of customer support. Our second generation camera, doorbell and floodlight products under our new business model come with a prepaid service that includes a one-year free trial period of Arlo Smart bundled with our Arlo Ultra products launched in early 2019, and a three-month free trial period of Arlo Smart bundled with our products launched after September 2019. Upon device shipment, we attribute a portion of the sales price to the prepaid service, deferring this revenue at the outset and subsequently recognizing it ratably over the estimated useful life of the device or free trial period, as applicable. Our paid subscription services relate to sales of subscription plans to our registered accounts. Our services also include certain development services provided to Verisure under a NRE arrangement as part of the disposal of our commercial operations in Europe in the fourth quarter of 2019. Refer to Note 4, Disposal of Business in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a complete discussion of the NRE arrangement. 57 Table of Contents Our revenue consists of gross revenue, less end-user customer rebates and other channel sales incentives deemed to be a reduction of revenue per the authoritative guidance for revenue recognition, allowances for estimated sales returns, price protection, and net changes in deferred revenue. A significant portion of our marketing expenditure is with customers and is deemed to be a reduction of revenue under authoritative guidance for revenue recognition. Under the Supply Agreement, Verisure became the exclusive distributor of our products in Europe for all channels, and will non-exclusively distribute our products through its direct channels globally for an initial term of five years. Refer to Note 4, Disposal of Business in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a complete discussion of the Supply Agreement. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of both product costs and costs of service. Product costs primarily consist of: the cost of finished products from our third-party manufacturers; overhead costs, including personnel expense for operation staff, purchasing, product planning, inventory control, warehousing and distribution logistics, third-party software licensing fees, inbound freight, IT and facilities overhead, warranty costs associated with returned goods, write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory, royalties to third parties; and amortization expense of certain acquired intangibles. Cost of service consists of costs attributable to the provision and maintenance of our cloud-based platform, including personnel, storage, security and computing, as well as NRE service costs incurred under the Verisure NRE arrangement. Our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue can vary based upon a number of factors, including those that may affect our revenue set forth above and factors that may affect our cost of revenue, including, without limitation: product and service mix, sales channel mix, registered accounts' acceptance of paid subscription service offerings, fluctuation in foreign exchange rates and changes in our cost of goods sold due to fluctuations in prices paid for components, net of vendor rebates, cloud platform costs, warranty and overhead costs, inbound freight and duty product conversion costs, charges for excess or obsolete inventory, and amortization of acquired intangibles. We outsource our manufacturing, warehousing, and distribution logistics. We also outsource certain components of the required infrastructure to support our cloud-based back-end IT infrastructure. We believe this outsourcing strategy allows us to better manage our product and services costs and gross margin. Research and Development Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel-related expense, safety, security, regulatory services and testing, other research and development consulting fees, and IT and facilities overhead. We recognize research and development expense as it is incurred. We have invested in and expanded our research and development organization to enhance our ability to introduce innovative products and services. We believe that innovation and technological leadership are critical to our future success, and we are committed to continuing a significant level of research and development to develop new technologies, products, and services, including our hardware devices, cloud-based software, AI-based algorithms, and machine learning capabilities. We expect research and development expense to stay relatively flat in absolute dollars as we manage our expenses while continuing to develop new product and service offerings. Research and development expense directly attributable to delivering the Verisure NRE is recognized in cost of service. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel expense for sales and marketing staff; technical support expense; advertising; trade shows; corporate communications and other marketing expense; product marketing expense; IT and facilities overhead; outbound freight costs; and credit card processing fees. We expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in the future as we invest in marketing to drive awareness of our brand and drive demand for our products and services. 58 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related expense for certain executives, finance and accounting, investor relations, human resources, legal, information technology, professional fees, IT and facilities overhead, strategic initiative expense, and other general corporate expense. We expect our general and administrative expense to fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue in future periods based on fluctuations in our revenue and the timing of such expense. Impairment Charges During the second quarter of 2021, we reviewed certain of our right-of-use assets and other lease-related assets for impairment in conjunction with our decision to sublease our office space in San Jose, California. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge for the right-of-use asset and other lease-related assets included in the San Jose office asset group. Separation Expense Separation expense consists primarily of costs of legal and professional services for IPO-related litigation associated with our separation from NETGEAR. Gain on Sale of Business Gain on sale of business represents the gain on the sale of our commercial operations in Europe in the fourth quarter of 2019. Interest Income Interest income represents interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We expect our interest income in absolute dollars to stay relatively flat as we deploy our short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations, while interest rates are expected to increase. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily represents gains and losses on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, foreign currency contract gain (loss), net, and other miscellaneous income and expense. We have also included any reimbursement for the Verisure TSA and the Employee Retention Credit ("ERC") under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the "CARES Act") for qualified wages in Other income. 59 Table of Contents Results of Operations We operate as one operating and reportable segment. The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, the consolidated statements of operations data, which we derived from the accompanying consolidated financial statements: Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 (In thousands, except percentage data) Revenue: Products $ 331,620 76.2 % $ 284,868 79.8 % Services 103,517 23.8 % 72,286 20.2 % Total revenue 435,137 100.0 % 357,154 100.0 % Cost of revenue: Products 285,334 65.6 % 263,905 73.9 % Services 41,768 9.6 % 37,860 10.6 % Total cost of revenue 327,102 75.2 % 301,765 84.5 % Gross profit 108,035 24.8 % 55,389 15.5 % Operating expenses: Research and development 59,063 13.6 % 60,137 16.8 % Sales and marketing 48,909 11.2 % 49,064 13.7 % General and administrative 49,489 11.4 % 51,096 14.3 % Impairment charges 9,116 2.1 % % Separation expense 1,596 0.4 % 248 0.1 % Gain on sale of business % (292) (0.1) % Total operating expenses 168,173 38.6 % 160,253 44.9 % Loss from operations (60,138) (13.8) % (104,864) (29.4) % Interest income 11 0.0 % 802 0.2 % Other income (expense), net 4,775 1.1 % 3,436 1.1 % Loss before income taxes (55,352) (12.7) % (100,626) (28.2) % Provision for income taxes 677 0.2 % 625 0.2 % Net loss $ (56,029) (12.9) % $ (101,251) (28.3) % Revenue We conduct business across three geographic regions: Americas, EMEA, and APAC. We generally base revenue by geography on the ship-to location of the customer for device sales and device location for service sales. Year Ended December 31, 2021 % Change 2020 (In thousands, except percentage data) Americas $ 271,182 0.7 % $ 269,395 Percentage of revenue 62.3 % 75.4 % EMEA $ 134,232 117.1 % $ 61,832 Percentage of revenue 30.8 % 17.3 % APAC $ 29,723 14.6 % $ 25,927 Percentage of revenue 6.8 % 7.3 % Total revenue $ 435,137 21.8 % $ 357,154 60 Table of Contents Revenue increased 21.8% across all geographic regions for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year. Product revenue increased by $46.8 million, or 16.4% for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year, primarily driven by a 117.1% increase in product sales to Verisure. The increase is also driven by customer mix and the associated contractual terms and the decreases in provisions for sales returns, price protection and marketing expenditures deemed to be a reduction of product revenue. Service revenue increased by $31.2 million, or 43.2%, for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year, primarily due to increased paid accounts. Cost of Revenue The following table presents cost of revenue for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2021 % Change 2020 (In thousands, except percentage data) Cost of revenue: Products $ 285,334 8.1 % $ 263,905 Services 41,768 10.3 % 37,860 Total cost of revenue $ 327,102 8.4 % $ 301,765 Cost of revenue increased 8.4% for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year driven by increases in both product revenue and service revenue. Cost of product revenue increased $21.4 million, or 8.1% for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year, primarily due to increases in shipped product costs and freight-in expense as a result of COVID-19 related supply chain disruption, partially offset by lower warranty cost and excess and obsolete inventory provision compared to the prior year. The decrease in warranty cost is a result of a lower scrap rate driven by increased and more profitable refurbished product sales, lower returns and fewer product transitions. The decrease in excess and obsolete inventory provision is due to fewer product transitions and more effective inventory management. Cost of service revenue increased $3.9 million, or 10.3% for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year, driven by service revenue growth, offset by cost optimizations implemented. Gross Margin The following table presents gross margin for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2021 % Change 2020 (In thousands, except percentage data) Gross margin: Products $ 46,286 120.8 % $ 20,963 Services 61,749 79.4 % 34,426 Total gross margin $ 108,035 95.0 % $ 55,389 Gross margin percentage: Products 14.0 % 7.4 % Services 59.7 % 47.6 % Total gross margin percentage 24.8 % 15.5 % Gross margin increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year, due to a combination of both product and service margin increases. The product margin increase is primarily due to customer mix driving a decreased provision for price protection and lower marketing expenditures that are deemed to be reductions of revenue, decreased warranty costs and a lower excess and obsolete inventory provision, partially offset by higher freight-in costs as a result of COVID-19 related supply chain disruption. Service margin increased for year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the prior year, primarily due to an increase in paid service revenue coupled with various cost optimizations implemented. 61 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Research and Development The following table presents research and development expense for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2021 % Change 2020 (In thousands, except percentage data) Research and development expense $ 59,063 (1.8) % $ 60,137 Research and development expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year, due to a decrease of $2.8 million in IT and facility overhead, partially offset by an increase of $0.9 million in personnel-related expenses and a decrease of $1.0 million in various research and development expenses that were attributed to the Verisure NRE arrangement. For the year ended December 31, 2021, research and development expenses amounting to $2.8 million were attributed to the Verisure NRE arrangement and classified as cost of service revenue. Sales and Marketing The following table presents sales and marketing expense for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2021 % Change 2020 (In thousands, except percentage data) Sales and marketing expense $ 48,909 (0.3) % $ 49,064 Sales and marketing expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year, primarily due to a decrease of $1.8 million in outside professional services and a decrease of $1.7 million in marketing expenditures, partially offset by an increase of $2.1 million in personnel-related expenses, and an increase of $1.4 million in credit card processing fees driven by the growth in sales from Arlo's direct to consumer store and paid accounts service revenue. General and Administrative The following table presents general and administrative expense for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2021 % Change 2020 (In thousands, except percentage data) General and administrative expense $ 49,489 (3.1) % $ 51,096 General and administrative expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year, primarily due to a decrease of $4.0 million in personnel-related expenditures partially brought about by the one-time charge for stock-based compensation expense recognized in the first quarter of 2020 upon the voluntary forfeiture of our CEO's stock options in January 2020, a decrease of $1.9 million in legal and professional services and a decrease of $0.8 million in Verisure transaction costs which was recognized in the first half of 2020, partially offset by an increase of $1.6 million in IT and facility overhead. 62 Table of Contents Impairment Charges The following table presents impairment charges for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2021 % Change 2020 (In thousands, except percentage data) Impairment charges $ 9,116 ** $ **Percentage change not meaningful. During the second quarter of 2021, we reviewed certain of our right-of-use assets and other lease-related assets for impairment in conjunction with our decision to sublease our office space in San Jose, California. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $9.1 million, which included $6.8 million associated with the right-of-use assets and $2.3 million associated with the leasehold improvements and furniture, fixtures and equipment included in the San Jose office asset group. Refer to Note 5, Balance Sheet Components in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information about the impairment of the right-of-use asset and long-lived assets. Separation Expense The following table presents separation expense for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2021 % Change 2020 (In thousands, except percentage data) Separation expense $ 1,596 543.5 % $ 248 Separation expense consists primarily of the costs of legal and professional services for IPO-related litigation associated with our Separation from NETGEAR. Gain on sale of business Year Ended December 31, 2021 % Change 2020 (In thousands, except percentage data) Gain on sale of business $ ** $ (292) **Percentage change not meaningful. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we sold our commercial operations in Europe which resulted in a gain on sale of business. In the first quarter of 2020, we recognized an additional gain of $0.3 million as a result of the final working capital adjustment. Refer to Note 4, Disposal of Business in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a complete discussion of this disposal. 63 Table of Contents Interest Income and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents other income (expense), net for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2021 % Change 2020 (In thousands, except percentage data) Interest income $ 11 (98.6) % $ 802 Other income (expense), net $ 4,775 39.0 % $ 3,436 Interest income decreased for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the prior year, primarily due to the decrease in our short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents as we funded our operations and a decline in interest rates. Other income (expense), net increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year, primarily due to the ERC under the CARES Act for qualified wages amounting to $1.8 million, which was recognized as Other income in the second quarter of 2021, partially offset by decreases in Verisure TSA related income. The CARES Act was signed into law on March 27, 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The ERC, as one of the provisions that provide economic relief for individuals and businesses under the CARES Act, is a refundable payroll tax credit that encouraged businesses to keep employees on the payroll during the COVID-19 pandemic. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes and effective tax rate consisted of the following: Year Ended December 31, 2021 % Change 2020 (In thousands, except percentage data) Provision for income taxes $ 677 8.3 % $ 625 Effective tax rate (1.2) % (0.6) % Our effective tax rate for 2021 was lower than the U.S. federal income tax rate of 21% primarily due to a lower effective tax rate on foreign earnings and valuation allowance on our net U.S. deferred tax assets and certain foreign tax attributes as it is more likely than not that some or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. The increase in provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year was primarily due to higher foreign earnings in 2021. Refer to Note 9, Income taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have a history of losses and may continue to incur operating and net losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2021, our accumulated deficit was $288.8 million. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Short-term investments are marketable government securities with an original maturity or a remaining maturity at the time of purchase of greater than three months and no more than 12 months. The marketable securities are held in our companys name with a high quality financial institution, which acts as our custodian and investment manager. As of December 31, 2021, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $175.7 million. As of December 31, 2021, 7.4% of our cash and cash equivalents were held outside of the U.S. Starting in 2018, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act) impact on the repatriation of foreign earnings is generally immaterial. The cash and cash equivalents balance outside of the U.S. is subject to fluctuation based on the settlement of intercompany balances. In October 2021, we entered into the Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A., providing for a credit facility of up to $40.0 million. In addition, the Credit 64 Table of Contents Agreement includes an uncommitted accordion feature that allows us to request the lender increase the loan commitments by up to an additional $25.0 million, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. As of December 31, 2021, we have not borrowed against this credit facility. Refer to Note 10, Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details on the Credit Agreement. Based on our current plans, the Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A., and market conditions, we believe that such sources of liquidity will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, in the future we may require or desire additional funds to support our operating expenses and capital requirements or for other purposes, such as acquisitions, and may seek to raise such additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings or collaborative agreements or from other sources. However, the COVID-19 pandemic continues to rapidly evolve and has already resulted in a significant disruption of global financial markets. If the disruption persists and deepens, we could experience an inability to access additional capital, which could in the future negatively affect our capacity to support our operating expenses and capital requirements or to make investments for other purposes, such as acquisitions. We have no commitments to obtain such additional financing and cannot assure you that additional financing will be available at all or, if available, that such financing would be obtainable on terms favorable to us and would not be dilutive. Our future liquidity and cash requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the introduction of new products, the growth in our service revenue, as well as the ability to increase our gross margin dollars and continue to maintain controls over our operating expenditures. Cash Flow The following table presents our cash flows for the periods presented. Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 (In thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (23,197) $ (46,530) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 17,732 (3,975) Net cash used in financing activities (4,970) (23) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (10,435) $ (50,528) Operating activities Net cash used in operating activities decreased by $23.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year. This decrease comprised a $48.7 million reduction in adjusted net loss for cash flows, offset by an increase in working capital used in operations of $25.4 million, mainly driven by an increase in accounts receivable and a decrease in deferred revenue, partially offset by increased accounts payable and lower inventory balance. Our days sales outstanding (DSO) decreased to 50 days as of December 31, 2021 as compared to 64 days as of December 31, 2020, primarily due to more front-loaded shipments in the fourth quarter and slightly improved quarter end aging. Typically, our DSO in the fourth quarter is higher due to seasonal payment terms provided to our larger customers, while service revenue is typically a lower percentage of our revenue in the fourth quarter. Inventory decreased to $38.4 million as of December 31, 2021 from $64.7 million as of December 31, 2020, driven by longer production lead times, component shortages and supply chain disruptions, which necessitated extensive use of air freight, all of which were brought about by COVID-19-related issues, coupled with lower returns. Our ending inventory turns were 10.5x in the three months ended December 31, 2021 up from 5.0x turns in the three months ended December 31, 2020, primarily as a result of the lower inventory balance and extensive use of air freight, as previously discussed. Our accounts payable increased to $84.1 million as of December 31, 2021 from $62.2 million as of December 31, 2020, primarily as a result of higher inventory purchases in the fourth quarter of 2021. 65 Table of Contents Investing activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $21.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year, primarily due to maturity of our of short-term investments. Financing activities Net cash used in financing activities was $5.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 and comprised withholding tax from restricted stock unit releases of $13.2 million, offset by proceeds from our 2018 Employee Stock Purchase Plan contributions and exercises of stock options of $8.23 million. Backlog Our backlog consists of products for which customer purchase orders have been received and that are scheduled or in the process of being scheduled for shipment. As of December 31, 2021, we had a backlog of $4.4 million, compared to $5.7 million as of December 31, 2020. As we typically fulfill orders received within a relatively short period after receipt, our revenue in any fiscal year depends primarily upon orders booked and the availability of supply of our products in that year. In addition, most of our backlog is subject to rescheduling or cancellation with minimal penalties. As a result, our backlog as of any particular date may not be an indicator of revenue for any succeeding period. Similarly, there is a lack of meaningful correlation between year-over-year changes in backlog as compared with year-over-year changes in revenue. Accordingly, we do not believe that backlog information is material to an understanding of our overall business, and backlog as of any particular date should not be considered a reliable indicator of our ability to achieve any particular level of revenue or financial performance. Operating Leases We entered into several office lease agreements under non-cancelable operating leases with various expiration dates through June 2029. The terms of certain of our facility leases provide for rental payments on a graduated scale. We recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease period and have accrued for rent expense incurred but not paid. The amounts presented are consistent with contractual terms and are not expected to differ significantly unless a substantial change in our headcount requires us to exit an office facility early or expand our occupied space. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, gross rent expense was $7.0 million in both years. Letters of Credit In connection with the lease agreement for office space located in San Jose, California, we executed a letter of credit with the landlord as the beneficiary. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $3.6 million of unused letters of credit outstanding, of which $3.1 million pertains to the lease agreement. Purchase Obligations We enter into various inventory-related purchase agreements with suppliers. Generally, under these agreements, 50% of the orders are cancelable by giving notice of 46 to 60 days prior to the expected shipment date and 25% of orders are cancelable by giving notice 31 to 45 days prior to the expected shipment date. Orders are not cancelable within 30 days prior to the expected shipment date. As of December 31, 2021, we had $32.9 million in non-cancelable purchase commitments with suppliers. We expect to sell all products for which we have committed purchases from suppliers. 66 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and pursuant to the regulations of the SEC. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from these estimates. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as our operating environment changes. On a regular basis, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates and make changes accordingly. We also discuss our critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. We have listed below our critical accounting estimates which require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgements often as a result of the need to make estimate on matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or assumptions. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Revenue recognition Revenue from all sales types is recognized at transaction price, the amount we expect to be entitled to in exchange for transferring goods or providing services. Transaction price is calculated as selling price net of variable consideration which may include estimates for future returns, sales incentives, and price protection related to current period product revenue. Our standard obligation to our direct customers generally provides for a full refund in the event that such product is not merchantable or is found to be damaged or defective. In determining estimates for future returns, management analyzes historical sales and returns data, channel inventory levels, current economic trends, and changes in customer demand for our products. Sales incentives and price protection are determined based on a combination of the actual amounts committed and estimated future expenditure based upon historical customary business practice. Typically variable consideration does not need to be constrained as estimates are based on predictive historical data or future commitments that we plan and control. However, we continue to assess variable consideration estimates such that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur. Our standard warranty obligation to our direct customers generally provides for a right of return of any product for a full refund in the event that such product is not merchantable or is found to be damaged or defective. At the time we recognize revenue, we record an estimate of future warranty returns to reduce revenue in the amount of the expected credit or refund to be provided to our direct customers. At the time we record the reduction to revenue related to warranty returns, we include within cost of revenue a write-down to reduce the carrying value of such products to net realizable value. Our standard warranty obligation to end-users provides for replacement of a defective product for one or more years. Factors that affect the warranty obligation include product failure rates, material usage and service delivery costs incurred in correcting product failures. We record the estimated cost associated with fulfilling the warranty obligation to end-users in cost of revenue. Because our products are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, in certain cases we have recourse to the third-party manufacturer for replacement or credit for the defective products. We give consideration to amounts recoverable from our third-party manufacturers in determining our warranty liability. Our estimated allowances for product warranties can vary from actual results, and we may have to record additional revenue reductions or charges to cost of revenue, which could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, accrued warranty-related returns amounted to $18.0 million and $24.9 million, respectively. In addition to warranty-related returns, certain distributors and retailers generally have the right to return products for stock rotation purposes. Upon shipment of the product, we reduce revenue by an estimate of potential future stock rotation returns related to the current period product revenue. We analyze historical returns, channel inventory levels, current economic trends and changes in customer demand for our products when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance 67 Table of Contents for stock rotation returns. Our estimated allowances for returns due to stock rotation can vary from actual results, and we may have to record additional revenue reductions, which could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, accrued stock rotation amounted to $1.8 million and $4.2 million, respectively We accrue for sales incentives offered to customers as a marketing expense if we receive an identifiable benefit in exchange and can reasonably estimate the fair value of the identifiable benefit received; otherwise, it is recorded as a reduction to revenue. As a consequence, we record a substantial portion of our channel marketing costs as a reduction of revenue. We record estimated reductions to revenue for sales incentives when the related revenue is recognized or ahead of customer or end customer commitment if customary business practice creates an implied expectation that such activities will occur in the future. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, accrued sales and marketing amounted to $31.4 million and $38.6 million, respectively. Valuation of Inventory We value our inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value, cost being determined using the first-in, first-out method. We continually assess the value of our inventory and will periodically write down its value to account for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. On a quarterly basis, we review inventory quantities on hand and on order under non-cancelable purchase commitments and compare those quantities to our estimated forecast of product demand for the next nine months to determine what inventory, if any, is not salable. We base our analysis on the product demand forecast but take into account market conditions, product development plans, product life expectancy and other factors. Based on this analysis, we write down the carrying value of the affected inventory to account for estimated excess and obsolete amounts. At the point of loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. As demonstrated during prior years, demand for our products can fluctuate significantly. If actual demand is lower than our forecasted demand and we fail to reduce our manufacturing accordingly, we could be required to write down the value of additional inventory, which would have a negative effect on our gross profit. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, excess and obsolescence reserve amounted to $2.7 million and $6.3 million, respectively. Long-lived Assets and Right-of-use Assets Impairment During the second quarter of 2021, we evaluated our real estate lease portfolio in light of the COVID-19 pandemic and the changing nature of office space use by our workforce. This evaluation included a decision to sublease our office space in San Jose, California. This change in the use of our San Jose office space led management to test the recoverability of the carrying amount of the asset group related to the sublease. On May 25, 2021, the carrying amount of the asset group exceeded the anticipated undiscounted value of the sublease income over the sublease term. Accordingly, we reviewed certain of our right-of-use assets and other lease related assets including leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment under the sublease asset group for impairment. As a result of the evaluation, we recorded an impairment charge of $9.1 million, which included $6.8 million associated with the right-of-use assets and $2.3 million associated with other lease related property and equipment, in the second quarter of 2021. The assets found to be impaired were written down to their fair value calculated using a discounted cash flow method (income approach). The fair value of the asset group was determined by utilizing projected cash flows from the sublease, discounted by a risk-adjusted discount rate that reflects the level of risk associated with receiving future cash flows. The inputs utilized in the analyses were classified as Level 3 inputs within the fair value hierarchy. Refer to Note 6, Fair Value Measurements and Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional information about the fair value measured on a non-recurring basis and for further information about the sublease, respectively. 68 Table of Contents Goodwill Impairment On the first day of the fourth quarter of 2021, we performed an annual assessment of goodwill at the reporting unit level. We operate as one operating and reportable segment. We performed a qualitative assessment in consideration of macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall company financial performance, and c hanges in our stock price. We believed that it was more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the reporting unit was greater than our respective carrying value and therefore performing the next step of impairment test for the reporting unit was unnecessary. No goodwill impairment was recognized in the years ended December 31, 2021, and 2020. If there are events occurred or circumstances changed (i.e. a decline in our stock price based on market conditions and deterioration of our business) that would more likely than not reduce our fair value below the carrying amount, we may have to record a charge to our earnings for the associated goodwill impairment of up to $11.0 million . Uncertain Tax Position We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We apply significant judgement in determining our uncertain tax positions. Although we believe that our reserves of uncertain tax position are reasonably adequate, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these matters will not be different from our reserves. When facts and circumstances change, our reserves are adjusted, such as the closing of a tax audit, the expiration of statute of limitation for a relevant taxing authority to examine a tax position, or when additional information becomes available. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the reserves recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made and could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a complete description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on financial condition and results of operations, refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Emerging Growth Company Status As an emerging growth company (EGC), under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (JOBS Act), we are allowed to delay adoption of new or revised accounting pronouncements applicable to public companies until such pronouncements are made applicable to private companies, unless we otherwise irrevocably elect not to avail ourselves of this exemption. While we have not made such an irrevocable election, we have not delayed the adoption of any applicable accounting standards. 69 Table of Contents