Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. 14 Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be impacted by a number of risks, including those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. Any of these individual risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. This effect could be compounded if multiple risks were to occur. We may not be able to execute our M2016 Strategy. In 2013, we announced our M2016 Strategy, a three-year plan to achieve sustainable financial strength. In connection with the plan, we established certain financial goals relating to adjusted EBITDA margins, debt reduction and incremental revenue. The M2016 Strategy is based on our current planning assumptions, and achievement of the plan is subject to a number of risks. Our assumptions include that the global economy and our markets improve; we are able to secure new business wins (a significant portion of which generates sales by the year 2016, which more than offset losses of existing business); we are able to reduce costs and increase pricing; and any increases in raw materials prices are substantially offset by customer recovery mechanisms. If our assumptions are incorrect, if management is not able to execute the plan or if our business suffers from any number of additional risks set forth herein, we may not be able to achieve the financial goals we have announced. Our primary military program is winding down and failure to secure new military contracts, which are subject to continued appropriations by Congress, could adversely affect our ability to maintain our sales and results of operations We have significant sales to U.S. Government contractors in the military vehicle market. Sales for our primary military program were at their peak during the third quarter of fiscal year 2012. This program is expected to wind down next year, and failure to secure new military contracts could have a longer-term negative impact to the company. In addition, even if sales of our military programs do return to historic levels, the levels of profitability on these sales could be lower than what we have recognized in recent periods. Future sales from orders placed under contracts with U.S. Government contractors are reliant on the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. If government defense spending decreases on selected programs or future defense budgets and appropriations for the military vehicles that our products supply are subject to budgeting constraints or differing priorities, reductions in appropriations for these military vehicles could adversely affect our ability to maintain our sales and results of operations. We depend on large OEM customers, and loss of sales to these customers or failure to negotiate acceptable terms in contract renewal negotiations could have an adverse impact on our business. We are dependent upon large OEM customers with substantial bargaining power with respect to price and other commercial terms. In addition, we have long-term contracts with certain of these customers that are subject to renegotiation and renewal from time to time (including, without limitation, negotiations with our largest customer, Volvo, which are ongoing regarding our contract with Volvo covering axle supply in Europe, South America and Australia, which is scheduled to expire in October 2014). Loss of all or a substantial portion of sales to any of our large volume customers for whatever reason (including, but not limited to, loss of contracts or failure to negotiate acceptable terms in contract renewal negotiations, loss of market share by these customers, insolvency of such customers, reduced or delayed customer requirements, plant shutdowns, strikes or other work stoppages affecting production by such customers), or continued reduction of prices to these customers, could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. There can be no assurance that we will not lose all or a portion of sales to our large volume customers, or that we will be able to offset continued reduction of prices to these customers with reductions in our costs. During fiscal year 2013, sales to our three largest customers, AB Volvo, Daimler AG and Navistar International Corporation, represented approximately 24 percent, 15 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of our sales from continuing operations. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our total sales from continuing operations in fiscal year 2013. The level of our sales to large OEM customers, including the realization of future sales from awarded business, is inherently subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the number of vehicles that these OEM customers actually produce and sell. Several of our significant customers have major union contracts that expire periodically and are subject to renegotiation. Any strikes or other actions that affect our customers' production during this process would also affect our sales. Further, to the extent that the financial condition, including bankruptcy or market share of any of our largest customers, deteriorates or their sales otherwise continue to decline, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, our customers generally have the right to replace us with another supplier under certain circumstances. Accordingly, we may not in fact realize all of the future sales represented by our awarded business. Any failure to realize these sales could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Ability to manage rapidly changing production and sales volume in the commercial vehicle market may adversely affect our results of operations. Production and sales in the commercial vehicle market have been volatile in recent years. Our business may experience difficulty in adapting to rapidly changing production and sales volumes. In an upturn of the cycle when demand increases from what had recently been a historical low for production, we may have difficulty in meeting such extreme or rapidly increasing demand. This difficulty may include not having sufficient manpower or working capital to meet the needs of our customers or relying on other suppliers who may not be able to respond quickly to a changed environment when demand increases rapidly. In contrast, in the downturn of the cycle, we may have difficulty sustaining profitability given fixed costs (as further discussed below). A further downturn in the global economy could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows . Although the global economy has improved since the global economic recession that began in late 2008 and continued through 2009, the recession had a significant adverse impact on our business, customers and suppliers. Our cash and liquidity needs were impacted by the level, variability and timing of our customers' worldwide vehicle production and other factors outside of our control. If the global economy were to take another significant downturn, depending upon the length, duration and severity of another recession, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow would be materially adversely affected again. Our levels of fixed costs can make it difficult to adjust our cost base to the extent necessary, or to make such adjustments on a timely basis, and continued volume declines can result in non-cash impairment charges as the value of certain long-lived assets is reduced. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations have been and would be expected to continue to be adversely affected during periods of prolonged declining production and sales volumes in the commercial vehicle markets. The negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations from continued volume declines could also have negative effects on our liquidity. If cash flows are not available from our operations, we may be required to rely on the banking and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs; however, we cannot predict whether that funding will be available at all or on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, in the event of reduced sales, levels of receivables would decline, which would lead to a decline in funding available under our U.S. receivables facilities or under our European factoring arrangements. Our working capital requirements may negatively affect our liquidity and capital resources. Our working capital requirements can vary significantly, depending in part on the level, variability and timing of our customers' worldwide vehicle production and the payment terms with our customers and suppliers. As production volumes increase, our working capital requirements to support the higher volumes generally increase. If our working capital needs exceed our cash flows from operations, we would look to our cash balances and availability for borrowings under our borrowing arrangements to satisfy those needs, as well as potential sources of additional capital, which may not be available on satisfactory terms and in adequate amounts. In addition, since many of our accounts receivable factoring programs support our working capital requirements in Europe, any dissolution of the European monetary union, if it were to occur, or any other termination of our European factoring agreements could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity if we were unable to renegotiate such agreements or find alternative sources of liquidity. One of our consolidated joint ventures in participates in bills of exchange programs to settle accounts receivable from its customers and obligations to its trade suppliers. These programs are common in China and generally require the participation of local banks. Any disruption in these programs, if it were to occur, could have an adverse effect on our liquidity if we were unable to find alternative sources of liquidity. 16 Our liquidity, including our access to capital markets and financing, could be constrained by limitations in the overall credit market, our credit ratings, our ability to comply with financial covenants in our debt instruments, and our suppliers suspending normal trade credit terms on our purchases. Our current revolving credit facility matures in April 2017. Upon expiration of this facility, we will require a new or renegotiated facility (which may be smaller and have less favorable terms than our current facility) or other financing arrangements. Our ability to access additional capital in the long term will depend on availability of capital markets and pricing on commercially reasonable terms as well as our credit profile at the time we are seeking funds, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to access additional capital. Standard & Poor's current corporate credit rating, senior secured credit rating and senior unsecured credit rating for our company are B, BB- and B-, respectively. Moody's Investors Service corporate credit rating, senior secured credit rating and senior unsecured credit rating for our company are B2, Ba2 and B3, respectively. There are a number of factors, including our ability to achieve the intended benefits from restructuring and other strategic activities on a timely basis, that could result in lowering of our credit ratings. The rating agencies' opinions about our creditworthiness may also be affected by their views of industry conditions generally, including their views concerning the financial condition of our major OEM customers. If the credit rating agencies perceive further weakening in the industry, they could lower our ratings. Declines in our ratings could reduce our access to capital markets, further increase our borrowing costs and result in lower trading prices for our securities. Our liquidity could also be adversely impacted if our suppliers were to suspend normal trade credit terms and require more accelerated payment terms, including payment in advance or payment on delivery of purchases. If this were to occur, we would be dependent on other sources of financing to bridge the additional period between payment of our suppliers and receipt of payments from our customers. We operate in an industry that is cyclical and that has periodically experienced significant year-to-year fluctuations in demand for vehicles; we also experience seasonal variations in demand for our products. The industries in which we operate have been characterized historically by significant periodic fluctuations in overall demand for medium- and heavy-duty trucks and other vehicles for which we supply products, resulting in corresponding fluctuations in demand for our products. The length and timing of any cycle in the vehicle industry cannot be predicted with certainty. Production and sales of the vehicles for which we supply products generally depend on economic conditions and a variety of other factors that are outside our control, including freight tonnage, customer spending and preferences, vehicle age, labor relations and regulatory requirements. In particular, demand for our Commercial Truck & Industrial segment products can be affected by a pre-buy before the effective date of new regulatory requirements, such as changes in emissions standards. Historically, implementation of new, more stringent, emissions standards, has increased heavy-duty truck demand prior to the effective date of the new regulations, and correspondingly decreased this demand after the new standards are implemented. In addition, any expected increase in the heavy-duty truck demand prior to the effective date of new emissions standards may be offset by instability in the financial markets and resulting economic contraction in the U.S. and worldwide markets. Sales from the aftermarket portion of our Aftermarket & Trailers segment depend on overall levels of truck ton miles and gross domestic product (GDP) and may be influenced by times of slower economic growth or economic contraction based on the average age of commercial truck fleets. We may also experience seasonal variations in the demand for our products to the extent that vehicle production fluctuates. Historically, for our business, demand has been somewhat lower in the quarters ended September 30 and December 31, when OEM plants may close during model changeovers and vacation and holiday periods or when there are fewer selling days during the quarter. In addition, our aftermarket business and our operations in China generally experience higher than usual demand in the quarters ending March 31 and June 30. 17 Disruptions in the financial markets could impact the availability and cost of credit which could negatively affect our business. Disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy, insolvency or restructuring of certain financial institutions, and the lack of liquidity generally could impact the availability and cost of incremental credit for many companies and may adversely affect the availability of credit already arranged. Such disruptions could adversely affect the U.S. and world economy, further negatively impacting consumer spending patterns in the transportation and industrial sectors. In addition, as our customers and suppliers respond to rapidly changing consumer preferences, they may require access to additional capital. If that capital is not available or its cost is prohibitively high, their business would be negatively impacted which could result in further restructuring or even reorganization under bankruptcy laws. Any such negative impact, in turn, could negatively affect our business either through loss of sales to any of our customers so affected or through inability to meet our commitments (or inability to meet them without excess expense) because of loss of supplies from any of our suppliers so affected. There are no assurances that government responses to these disruptions will restore consumer confidence or improve the liquidity of the financial markets. In addition, disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as were experienced a few years ago, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facility. Our access to funds under that credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from Meritor and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Continued fluctuation in the prices of raw materials and transportation costs has adversely affected our business and, together with other factors, will continue to pose challenges to our financial results. Prices of raw materials, primarily steel and oil, for our manufacturing needs and costs of transportation fluctuated sharply in recent years, including rapid increases which had a negative impact on our operating income for certain periods. These steel price increases, along with increasing transportation costs, created pressure on profit margins and if they recur in the future, they could unfavorably impact our financial results going forward. While we have had steel pricing adjustment programs in place with most major OE manufacturers, the price adjustment programs have tended to lag the increase in steel costs and have generally not contemplated all non-index-related increases in steel costs. Raw material price fluctuation, together with the volatility of the commodity markets will continue to pose risks to our financial results. If we are unable to pass price increases on to our customer base or otherwise mitigate the costs, our operating income could be adversely affected. Escalating price pressures from customers may adversely affect our business. Pricing pressure by OEMs is a characteristic, to a certain extent, of the commercial vehicle industry. Virtually all OEMs have aggressive price reduction initiatives and objectives each year with their suppliers, and such actions are expected to continue in the future. Accordingly, we must be able to reduce our operating costs in order to maintain our current margins. Price reductions have impacted our margins and may do so in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid future customer price reductions or offset future customer price reductions through improved operating efficiencies, new manufacturing processes, sourcing alternatives or other cost reduction initiatives. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Each of Meritor's businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. We compete worldwide with a number of North American and international providers of components and systems, some of which are owned by or associated with some of our customers. Some of these competitors are larger and have greater financial resources or have established stronger relationships with significant customers. In addition, certain OEMs manufacture products for their own use that compete with the types of products we supply, and any future increase in this activity could displace Meritor's sales. Many companies in our industry have undertaken substantial changes in contractual obligations to current and former employees, primarily with respect to pensions and other postretirement benefits. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor has resulted in certain companies eliminating or reducing some or all of these obligations as well as their debt obligations, which could give that competitor a cost advantage over us. 18 Exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our substantial international operations, we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from our normal business operations, including in connection with our transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies. While we employ financial instruments to hedge certain of our foreign currency exchange risks relating to these transactions, our efforts to manage these risks may not be successful. In addition, we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currencies into U.S. dollars for purposes of our consolidated financial statements. As a result, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies generally will have a negative impact on our reported revenues and operating income, while depreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies will generally have a positive effect on reported revenues and operating income. For fiscal years 2011, our reported financial results benefited from depreciation of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies; whereas, during fiscal year 2012 and 2013, our reported financial results were adversely affected by appreciation of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. We generally do not hedge against our foreign currency exposure related to translations to U.S. dollars of our financial results denominated in foreign currencies. A disruption in supply of raw materials or parts could impact our production and increase our costs. Some of our significant suppliers have experienced weak financial condition in recent years that resulted in filing for protection under the bankruptcy laws. In addition, some of our significant suppliers are located in developing countries. We are dependent upon the ability of our suppliers to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. The inability of a supplier to meet these requirements, the loss of a significant supplier, or any labor issues or work stoppages at a significant supplier could disrupt the supply of raw materials and parts to our facilities and could have an adverse effect on us. Work stoppages or similar difficulties could significantly disrupt our operations. A work stoppage at one or more of our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if a significant customer were to experience a work stoppage, that customer could halt or limit purchases of our products, which could result in shutting down the related manufacturing facilities. Also, a significant disruption in the supply of a key component due to a work stoppage at one of our suppliers could result in shutting down manufacturing facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks. We have a significant number of facilities and operations outside the United States, including investments and joint ventures in developing countries. During fiscal 2013, approximately 61 percent of our sales were generated outside of the United States. Our strategy to grow in emerging markets may put us at risk due to the risks inherent in operating in such markets. In particular, we have grown over an extended period of time, and intend as part of our strategy to continue to grow, in India and Brazil. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in operating abroad, including, but not limited to: risks with respect to currency exchange rate fluctuations (as more fully discussed above); risks to our liquidity if the European monetary union were to dissolve and we were unable to renegotiate European factoring agreements; local economic and political conditions; disruptions of capital and trading markets; possible terrorist attacks or acts of aggression that could affect vehicle production or the availability of raw materials or supplies; restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs); changes in legal or regulatory requirements; import or export licensing requirements; limitations on the repatriation of funds; 19 high inflationary conditions; difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; nationalization; the laws and policies of the United States affecting trade, foreign investment and loans; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; tax laws; and labor disruptions. There can be no assurance that these risks will not have a material adverse impact on our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales or on our financial condition or results of operations. A violation of the financial covenant in our senior secured credit facility could result in a default thereunder and could lead to an acceleration of our obligations under this facility and, potentially, other indebtedness. Our ability to borrow under our existing financing arrangements depends on our compliance with covenants in the related agreements, and on our performance against covenants in our bank credit facility that require compliance with certain financial ratios as of the end of each fiscal quarter. To the extent that we are unable to maintain compliance with these requirements or to perform against the financial ratio covenants due to one or more of the various risk factors discussed herein or otherwise, our ability to borrow, and our liquidity, would be adversely impacted. Availability under the revolving credit facility is subject to a collateral test, performed quarterly, pursuant to which borrowings on the revolving credit facility cannot exceed 1.0x the collateral test value. Availability under the revolving credit facility is also subject to certain financial covenants based on (i) the ratio of the company's priority debt (consisting principally of amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility, term loan, U.S. accounts receivable securitization and factoring programs, and third-party non-working capital foreign debt) to EBITDA and (ii) the amount of annual capital expenditures. The company is required to maintain a total priority-debt-to-EBITDA ratio, as defined in the agreement, of (i) 2.25 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter commencing with the fiscal quarter ending on or about December 31, 2012 through and including the fiscal quarter ending on or about September 30, 2013, and (ii) 2.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter thereafter through maturity. If an amendment or waiver is needed (in the event we do not meet one of these covenants) and not obtained, we would be in violation of that covenant, and the lenders would have the right to accelerate the obligations upon the vote of the lenders holding at least 111% of outstanding loans thereunder. A default under the senior secured credit facility could also constitute a default under our outstanding convertible notes as well as our U.S. receivables facility and could result in the acceleration of these obligations. In addition, a default under our senior secured credit facility could result in a cross-default or the acceleration of our payment obligations under other financing agreements. If our obligations under our senior secured credit facility and other financing arrangements are accelerated as described above, our assets and cash flow may be insufficient to fully repay these obligations, and the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets. Our strategic initiatives may be unsuccessful, may take longer than anticipated, or may result in unanticipated costs. The success and timing of any future divestitures and acquisitions will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. If we engage in acquisitions, we may finance these transactions by issuing additional debt or equity securities. The additional debt from any such acquisitions, if consummated, could increase our debt to capitalization ratio. In addition, the ultimate benefit of any acquisition would depend on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired entity or assets into our existing business and to achieve any projected synergies. There is no assurance that the total costs and total cash costs associated with any current and future restructuring will not exceed our estimates, or that we will be able to achieve the intended benefits of these restructurings. 20 We are exposed to environmental, health and safety and product liabilities. Our business is subject to liabilities with respect to environmental and health and safety matters. In addition, we are required to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and health and safety, and we could be held liable for damages arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental or natural resource damages. Environmental health and safety laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and tend to be increasingly stringent. As a result, our future costs to comply with such laws may increase significantly. There is also an inherent risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims, as well as product recalls, in the commercial and automotive vehicle industry if our products fail to perform to specifications or are alleged to cause property damage, injury or death. With respect to environmental liabilities, we have been designated as a potentially responsible party at nine Superfund sites (excluding sites as to which our records disclose no involvement or as to which our liability has been finally determined). In addition to the Superfund sites, various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been asserted against us alleging violations of federal, state and local and foreign environmental protection requirements or seeking remediation of alleged environmental impairments. We have established reserves for these liabilities when we determine that the company has a probable obligation and we can reasonably estimate it, but the process of estimating environmental liabilities is complex and dependent on evolving physical and scientific data at the site, uncertainties as to remedies and technologies to be used, and the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies. The actual amount of costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could materially exceed our current estimates because of these and other uncertainties which make it difficult to predict actual costs accurately. In future periods, new laws and regulations, changes in remediation plans, advances in technology and additional information about the ultimate clean-up remedy could significantly change our estimates and have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. Management cannot assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements. We are exposed to asbestos litigation liability. One of our subsidiaries, Maremont Corporation, manufactured friction products containing asbestos from 1953 through 1977, when it sold its friction product business. We acquired Maremont in 1986. Maremont and many other companies are defendants in suits brought by individuals claiming personal injuries as a result of exposure to asbestos-containing products. We, along with many other companies, have also been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos used in certain components of products of Rockwell International Corporation. Liability for these claims was transferred to us at the time of the spin-off of Rockwell's automotive business to Meritor in 1997. The uncertainties of asbestos claim litigation, the outcome of litigation with insurance companies regarding the scope of coverage and the long-term solvency of our insurance carriers make it difficult to predict accurately the ultimate resolution of asbestos claims. The possibility of adverse rulings or new legislation affecting asbestos claim litigation or the settlement process increases that uncertainty. Although we have established reserves to address asbestos liability and corresponding receivables for recoveries from our insurance carriers, if our assumptions with respect to the nature of pending and future claims, the cost to resolve claims and the amount of available insurance prove to be incorrect, the actual amount of liability for asbestos-related claims, and the effect on us, could differ materially from our current estimates and, therefore, could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. We are exposed to the rising cost of pension and other postretirement benefits. The commercial vehicle industry, like other industries, continues to be impacted by the cost of pension and other postretirement benefits. In estimating our expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans, we make certain assumptions as to economic and demographic factors, such as discount rates, investment returns and health care cost trends. If actual experience as to these factors is worse than our assumptions, our obligations could grow which could in turn increase the amount of mandatory contributions to these plans in the coming years. Our pension plans and other postretirement benefits are under funded by $341 million and $538 million, respectively, as of September 30, 2013. Impairment in the carrying value of long-lived assets and goodwill could negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. We have a significant amount of long-lived assets and goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. Under generally accepted accounting principles, long-lived assets, excluding goodwill, are required to be reviewed for impairment whenever adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate a possible impairment. If business conditions or other factors cause our operating results and cash flows to decline, we may be required to record non-cash impairment charges. Goodwill must be evaluated for impairment at least annually. If the carrying value of our reporting units exceeds their current fair value the goodwill is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. Events and conditions that could result in impairment in the value of 21 our long-lived assets and goodwill include changes in the industries in which we operate, particularly the impact of the current downturn in the global economy, as well as competition and advances in technology, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, or other factors leading to reduction in expected long-term sales or operating results. If the value of long-lived assets or goodwill is impaired, our earnings and financial condition could be adversely affected. The value of our deferred tax assets could become impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 740 Income Taxes, each quarter we determine the probability of the realization of deferred tax assets, using significant judgments and estimates with respect to, among other things, historical operating results, expectations of future earnings and tax planning strategies. If we determine in the future that there is not sufficient positive evidence to support the valuation of these assets, due to the risk factors described herein or other factors, we may be required to adjust the valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets. Such a reduction could result in material non-cash expenses in the period in which the valuation allowance is adjusted and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, future changes in laws or regulations could have a material impact on the company's overall tax position. Our overall effective tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of our total earnings before tax. However, tax expenses and benefits are determined separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity) or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes in each jurisdiction. Losses in certain jurisdictions which have valuation allowances against their deferred tax assets provide no current financial statement tax benefit unless required under the intra-period allocation requirements of ASC Topic 740. As a result, changes in the mix of projected earnings between jurisdictions, among other factors, could have a significant impact on our overall effective tax rate. Our unrecognized tax benefits recorded in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740 could significantly change. FASB ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, defines the confidence level that a tax position must meet in order to be recognized in the financial statements. This topic requires that the tax effects of a position be recognized only if it is "more-likely-than-not" to be sustained based solely on its technical merits as of the reporting date. The more-likely-than-not threshold represents a positive assertion by management that a company is entitled to the economic benefits of a tax position. If a tax position is not considered more-likely-than-not to be sustained based solely on its technical merits, no benefits of the position are to be recognized. Moreover, the more-likely-than-not threshold must continue to be met in each reporting period to support continued recognition of a benefit. In the event that the more-likely-than-not threshold is not met, we would be required to change the relevant tax position which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law ownership change Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, limits the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, such as net operating losses and tax credits. In general, an ownership change occurs if five percent shareholders (applying certain look-through rules) of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than fifty percentage points within any three year period over such shareholders' lowest percentage ownership during this period. If we were to issue new shares of stock, such new shares could contribute to such an ownership change under U.S. tax law. Moreover, not every event that could contribute to such an ownership change is within our control. If an ownership change under Section 382 were to occur, our ability to utilize tax attributes in the future may be limited. Assertions against us or our customers relating to intellectual property rights could materially impact our business. Our industry is characterized by companies that hold large numbers of patents and other intellectual property rights and that vigorously pursue, protect and enforce intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties may assert against us and our customers and distributors their patent and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. 22 Claims that our products or technology infringe third-party intellectual property rights, regardless of their merit or resolution, are frequently costly to defend or settle and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. In addition, many of our supply agreements require us to indemnify our customers and distributors from third-party infringement claims, which have in the past and may in the future require that we defend those claims and might require that we pay damages in the case of adverse rulings. Claims of this sort also could harm our relationships with our customers and might deter future customers from doing business with us. We do not know whether we will prevail in these proceedings given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any pending or future proceedings result in an adverse outcome, we could be required to: cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products or technology; pay substantial damages for infringement; expend significant resources to develop non-infringing products or technology; license technology from the third-party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; enter into cross-licenses with our competitors, which could weaken our overall intellectual property portfolio; lose the opportunity to license our technology to others or to collect royalty payments based upon successful protection and assertion of our intellectual property against others; pay substantial damages to our customers or end users to discontinue use or replace infringing technology with non-infringing technology; or relinquish rights associated with one or more of our patent claims, if our claims are held invalid or otherwise unenforceable. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We utilize a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as customary contractual protections with our customers, distributors, employees and consultants, and through security measures to protect our trade secrets. We cannot guarantee that: any of our present or future patents will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or, in the case of third-party patents licensed or sub-licensed to us, be licensed to others; any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; our intellectual property rights will be enforced in jurisdictions where competition may be intense or where legal protection may be weak; or any of the trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights that we presently employ in our business will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others. In addition, we may not receive competitive advantages from the rights granted under our patents and other intellectual property rights. Our competitors may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our proprietary technologies, duplicate our proprietary technologies, or design around the patents we own or license. Our existing and future patents may be circumvented, blocked, licensed to others, or challenged as to inventorship, ownership, scope, validity or enforceability. Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or more limited in one or more relevant jurisdictions relative to those protections available in the United States, or may not be applied for in one or more relevant jurisdictions. If we pursue litigation to assert our intellectual property rights, an adverse decision in any of these legal actions could limit our ability to assert our intellectual property rights, limit the value of our technology or otherwise negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 We are a party to a number of patent and intellectual property license agreements. Some of these license agreements require us to make one-time or periodic payments. We may need to obtain additional licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future. We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms. We may be adversely affected by any disruption in our information technology systems. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. We rely upon such information technology systems to manage and replenish inventory, to fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis, to coordinate our sales activities across all of our products and services and to coordinate our administrative activities. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged time period could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. Our systems might be damaged or interrupted by natural or man-made events (caused by us, by our service providers or others) or by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions affecting the internet. Such delays, problems or costs could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. At September 30, 2013, our operating segments, including all consolidated joint ventures, had the following facilities in the United States, Europe, South America, Canada, Mexico and the Asia-Pacific region. For purposes of these numbers, multiple facilities in one geographic location are counted as one facility. Manufacturing Facilities Engineering Facilities, Sales Offices, Warehouses and Service Centers Commercial Truck & Industrial 20 19 Aftermarket & Trailer 8 8 Other 4 Total 28 31 These facilities had an aggregate floor space of approximately 8.9 million square feet, substantially all of which is in use. We owned approximately 62 percent and leased approximately 38 percent of this floor space. Substantially all of our owned domestic plants and equipment are subject to liens securing our obligations under our revolving credit facility with a group of banks (see Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under