Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). At June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility. The amended and extended revolving credit facility includes $ 100 million of availability for the issuance of letters of credit. At June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2019, there were no letters of credit outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Other One of the company's consolidated joint ventures in China participates in a bills of exchange program to settle its obligations with its trade suppliers. These programs are common in China and generally require the participation of local banks. Under these programs, the company's joint venture issues notes payable through the participating banks to its trade suppliers. If the issued notes payable remain unpaid on their respective due dates, this could constitute an event of default under the companys revolving credit facility if the defaulted amount exceeds $ 35 million per bank. As of June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2019, the company had $ 21 million and $ 30 million, respectively, outstanding under this program at more than one bank. 22 MERITOR, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 18. Financial Instruments Fair values of financial instruments are summarized as follows (in millions): June 30, 2020 September 30, 2019 Carrying Value Fair Value Carrying Value Fair Value Cash and cash equivalents $ 280 $ 280 $ 108 $ 108 Short-term debt 34 52 41 60 Long-term debt 1,193 1,239 902 953 Foreign exchange forward contracts (other liabilities) 2 2 Cross-currency swaps (other assets) 10 10 Cross-currency swaps (other liabilities) 5 5 The following table reflects the offsetting of derivative assets and liabilities (in millions): June 30, 2020 September 30, 2019 Gross Amounts Recognized Gross Amounts Offset Net Amounts Reported Gross Amounts Recognized Gross Amounts Offset Net Amounts Reported Derivative Assets Cross-currency swaps 10 10 Derivative Liabilities Foreign exchange forward contracts 2 2 Cross-currency swaps 5 5 Fair Value FASB guidance provides a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below: Level 1 inputs use quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments. Level 2 inputs use other inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly. These Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets and other inputs such as interest rates and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs, including inputs that are available in situations where there is little, if any, market activity for the related instrument. In instances where inputs used to measure fair value fall into different levels in the above fair value hierarchy, fair value measurements in their entirety are categorized based on the lowest priority level input that is significant to the valuation. The company's assessment of the significance of particular inputs to these fair value measurements requires judgment and considers factors specific to each asset or liability. Fair value of financial instruments by the valuation hierarchy at June 30, 2020 is as follows (in millions): Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Cash and cash equivalents $ 280 $ $ Short-term debt 41 11 Long-term debt 1,076 163 Foreign exchange forward contracts (other liabilities) 2 23 MERITOR, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Fair value of financial instruments by the valuation hierarchy at September 30, 2019 is as follows (in millions): Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Cash and cash equivalents $ 108 $ $ Short-term debt 49 11 Long-term debt 782 171 Cross-currency swaps (other assets) 10 Cross-currency swaps (other liabilities) 5 No transfers of assets between any of the Levels occurred during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019. Cash and cash equivalents All highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less are considered to be cash equivalents. The carrying value approximates fair value because of the short maturity of these instruments. Short- and long-term debt Fair values are based on transaction prices at public exchange for publicly traded debt. For debt instruments that are not publicly traded, fair values are based on interest rates that would be currently available to the company for issuance of similar types of debt instruments with similar terms and remaining maturities. Foreign exchange forward contracts The company uses foreign exchange forward purchase and sale contracts with terms of 18 months or less to hedge its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. As of June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2019, the notional amount of the company's foreign exchange contracts outstanding under its foreign currency cash flow hedging program was $ 38 million and $ 110 million, respectively. The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts is based on a model which incorporates observable inputs including quoted spot rates, forward exchange rates and discounted future expected cash flows utilizing market interest rates with similar quality and maturity characteristics. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of the contracts is recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) in the statement of shareholders equity and is recognized in operating income when the underlying forecasted transaction impacts earnings. Foreign currency option contracts The company uses option contracts to mitigate foreign exchange exposure on expected future foreign currency-denominated purchases. As of June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2019, the notional amount of the company's foreign exchange contracts outstanding was $ 70 million and $ 139 million, respectively. The company did not elect hedge accounting for these derivatives. Changes in fair value associated with these contracts are recorded in cost of sales in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. The company uses option contracts to mitigate the risk of volatility in the translation of foreign currency earnings to U.S. dollars. As of June 30, 2020, there were no option contracts outstanding. As of September 30, 2019, the notional amount of the company's option contracts outstanding was $ 28 million. These option contracts did not qualify for a hedge accounting election. Changes in fair value associated with these contracts are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations in other income, net. The fair value of foreign currency option contracts is based on third-party proprietary models, which incorporate inputs at varying unobservable weights of quoted spot rates, market volatility, forward rates and time utilizing market instruments with similar quality and maturity characteristics. Cross-currency swap contracts The company uses cross-currency swap contracts to hedge a portion of its net investment in a foreign subsidiary against volatility in foreign exchange rates. These derivative instruments are designated and qualify as hedges of net investments in foreign operations using the spot method to assess effectiveness. Changes in fair values of the instruments are recognized in foreign currency translation adjustments, a component of other comprehensive income (loss) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss), to offset the changes in the values of the net investments being hedged. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, the company entered into multiple cross-currency swaps with a combined notional amount of $ 225 million and maturities in October 2022. As of September 30, 2019, the notional amount of the company's cross-currency swap contracts outstanding was $ 225 million. These swaps hedged a portion of the net investment in a certain European subsidiary against volatility in the euro/U.S. dollar foreign exchange rate. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2020, 24 MERITOR, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) the company settled these cross-currency swap contracts and received proceeds of $ 11 million, $ 1 million of which related to net accrued interest receivable. The fair value of cross-currency swap contracts is based on a model which incorporates observable inputs, including quoted spot rates, forward exchange rates and discounted future expected cash flows, utilizing market interest rates with similar quality and maturity characteristics. 19. Retirement Benefit Liabilities Retirement benefit liabilities consisted of the following (in millions): June 30, 2020 September 30, 2019 Retiree medical liability $ 61 $ 67 Pension liability 247 271 Other 17 14 Subtotal 325 352 Less: current portion (included in compensation and benefits, Note 15) ( 17 ) ( 16 ) Retirement benefits $ 308 $ 336 The components of net periodic pension and retiree medical income included in continuing operations for the three months ended June 30 are as follows (in millions): 2020 2019 Pension Retiree Medical Pension Retiree Medical Interest cost $ 10 $ $ 13 $ 1 Assumed return on plan assets ( 23 ) ( 24 ) Amortization of prior service benefit ( 9 ) ( 9 ) Recognized actuarial loss 8 4 6 4 Total income $ ( 5 ) $ ( 5 ) $ ( 5 ) $ ( 4 ) The components of net periodic pension and retiree medical income included in continuing operations for the nine months ended June 30 are as follows (in millions): 2020 2019 Pension Retiree Medical Pension Retiree Medical Interest cost $ 31 $ 1 $ 40 $ 2 Assumed return on plan assets ( 71 ) ( 73 ) Amortization of prior service benefit ( 27 ) ( 26 ) Recognized actuarial loss 24 11 17 12 Total income $ ( 16 ) $ ( 15 ) $ ( 16 ) $ ( 12 ) For the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, the non-service cost components of the net periodic pension and Other Post-Employment Benefits ("OPEB") income were $ 10 million and $ 9 million, respectively, and are presented in Other income, net. For the nine months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, the non-service cost components of the net periodic pension and OPEB income were $ 31 million and $ 28 million, respectively, and are presented in Other income, net. 25 MERITOR, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 20. Contingencies Environmental Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes and other activities affecting the environment have, and will continue to have, an impact on the operations of the company. The process of estimating environmental liabilities is complex and dependent upon evolving physical and scientific data at the sites, uncertainties as to remedies and technologies to be used and the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies. The company records liabilities for environmental issues in the accounting period in which they are considered to be probable and the cost can be reasonably estimated. At environmental sites in which more than one potentially responsible party has been identified, the company records a liability for its allocable share of costs related to its involvement with the site, as well as an allocable share of costs related to insolvent parties or unidentified shares. At environmental sites in which Meritor is the only potentially responsible party, the company records a liability for the total probable and estimable costs of remediation before consideration of recovery from insurers or other third parties. The company has been designated as a potentially responsible party at ten Superfund sites, excluding sites as to which the companys records disclose no involvement or as to which the companys liability has been finally determined. Superfund is a United States federal government program designed to fund the cleanup of sites contaminated with hazardous substances and pollutants. Management estimates the total reasonably possible costs the company could incur for the remediation of the ten Superfund sites at June 30, 2020 to be approximately $ 25 million, of which $ 12 million is probable and recorded as a liability. Included in reasonably possible amounts are estimates for certain remediation actions that may be required if current actions are deemed inadequate by the regulators. In addition to the Superfund sites, various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been asserted against the company, alleging violations of federal, state and local environmental protection requirements, or seeking remediation of alleged environmental impairments, principally at previously disposed-of properties. For these matters, management has estimated the total reasonably possible costs the company could incur at June 30, 2020 to be approximately $ 14 million, of which $ 4 million is probable and recorded as a liability. Included in the companys environmental liabilities are costs for on-going operation, maintenance and monitoring at environmental sites in which remediation has been put into place. This liability is discounted using discount rates in the range of 1.50 to 2.25 percent and is approximately $ 14 million at June 30, 2020. The undiscounted estimate of these costs is approximately $ 15 million. The following are the components of the Superfund and non-Superfund environmental reserves (in millions): Superfund Sites Non-Superfund Sites Total Beginning Balance at September 30, 2019 $ 11 $ 4 $ 15 Payments and other ( 3 ) ( 1 ) ( 4 ) Accruals 4 1 5 Ending Balance at June 30, 2020 $ 12 $ 4 $ 16 Environmental reserves are included in Other Current Liabilities (see Note 15) and Other Liabilities (see Note 16) in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The actual amount of costs or damages for which the company may be held responsible could materially exceed the foregoing estimates because of uncertainties, including the financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, the success of the remediation, discovery of new contamination and other factors that make it difficult to predict actual costs accurately. However, based on managements assessment, after consulting with outside advisors that specialize in environmental matters, and subject to the difficulties inherent in estimating these future costs, the company believes that its expenditures for environmental capital investment and remediation necessary to comply with present regulations governing environmental protection and other expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims will not have a material effect on the companys business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, in future periods, new laws and regulations, changes in remediation plans, advances in technology and additional information about the ultimate clean-up remedies could significantly change the companys estimates. Management cannot assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements. 26 MERITOR, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) In April 2016, the company was served with several complaints filed against the company and other defendants in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Mississippi. The complaints were amended in July 2016. These complaints allege damages, including diminution of property value, concealment/fraud and emotional distress resulting from alleged environmental pollution in and around a neighborhood in Grenada, Mississippi. Rockwell owned and operated a facility near the neighborhood from 1965 to 1985. The company filed answers to the complaints in July 2016. In May 2017, the company was served with a complaint filed against the company and other defendants by the Mississippi Attorney General in the Chancery Court of Grenada County, Mississippi. The complaint alleges that operations at the above-referenced Grenada facility caused contamination of off-site groundwater and surface waters. Subsequently, the company removed this action to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Mississippi. However, plaintiffs motion to remand the case to the Chancery Court was granted in March 2018. In April, May and July 2018, the company was served with additional property damage, personal injury and wrongful death lawsuits naming the company and others as defendants, which were brought by current and former residents of the same neighborhood. The company entered into settlement negotiations with plaintiffs and recorded an accrual in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. Asbestos Maremont Corporation ("Maremont"), a subsidiary of Meritor, manufactured friction products containing asbestos from 1953 through 1977, when it sold its friction product business. Arvin Industries, Inc., a predecessor of the company, acquired Maremont in 1986. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, Maremont and its three wholly-owned subsidiaries, Maremont Exhaust Products, Inc., AVM, Inc., and Former Ride Control Operating Company, Inc., began to solicit votes from asbestos claimants in favor of a Joint Pre-Packaged Plan of Reorganization (the "Plan"). On January 18, 2019, the Plan was approved by voting asbestos claimants and, on January 22, 2019, Maremont and its subsidiaries voluntarily filed cases under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the "Bankruptcy Court") seeking to implement the Plan through the Chapter 11 cases. Among other things, the Plan was intended to permanently resolve all current and future asbestos claims related to Maremont's historical asbestos-related activities through the creation of a trust pursuant to Section 524(g) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the "524(g) Trust"). Meritor determined that the net amount of $ 51 million Maremont would be required to contribute to the 524(g) Trust according to the Plan represented Meritor's best estimate of Maremont's net asbestos liability. As a result, Meritor recognized $ 31 million of income related to remeasuring the Maremont net asbestos liability based on the terms of the Plan. As of January 22, 2019, Maremont and its subsidiaries were deconsolidated from the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet and the results of Maremont's operations were eliminated from the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations as Maremont became subject to the control of a court. Deconsolidation had an insignificant impact on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. The Plan was confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court on May 17, 2019 and approved by the United States District Court for the District of Delaware on June 27, 2019. On July 9, 2019, the company contributed cash and repaid a loan to Maremont and Maremont funded the 524(g) Trust with such cash and its other assets, including its existing insurance policies. As a result, all current and future asbestos claims related to Maremonts historical asbestos-related activities have been channeled to the 524(g) Trust, which will process and satisfy all such claims going forward pursuant to its resolution and payment procedures. Rockwell International Corporation ("Rockwell") ArvinMeritor, Inc. ("AM"), a predecessor of Meritor, along with many other companies, has been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos used in certain components of Rockwell products many years ago. Liability for these claims was transferred at the time of the spin-off of the automotive business from Rockwell in 1997. There were approximately 1,400 pending active asbestos claims in lawsuits that name AM, together with many other companies, as defendants at June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2019. A significant portion of the claims do not identify any Rockwell products or specify which of the claimants, if any, were exposed to asbestos attributable to Rockwell products, and past experience has shown that the vast majority of the claimants will likely never identify any of Rockwell products. Historically, AM has been dismissed from the vast majority of similar claims filed in the past with no payment to claimants. For those claimants who do show that they worked with Rockwell products, management nevertheless believes it has meritorious defenses, in substantial part due to the integrity of the products involved and the lack of any impairing medical condition on the part of many claimants. Pending and Future Claims : The company engaged a third-party advisor with extensive experience in assessing asbestos-related liabilities to conduct a study to estimate its potential undiscounted liability for pending and future asbestos-related 27 MERITOR, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) claims as of September 30, 2019. Management continuously monitors the underlying claims data and experience for the purpose of assessing the appropriateness of the assumptions used to estimate the liability. As of September 30, 2019, the estimated probable range of equally likely possibilities of the companys obligation for asbestos-related claims over the next 40 years was $ 91 million to $ 181 million. Based on the information contained in the actuarial study, and all other available information considered, management concluded that no amount within the range of potential liability was more likely than any other and, therefore, recorded a liability at the low end of the range. The company recognized a liability for pending and future claims over the next 40 years of $ 86 million as of June 30, 2020 and $ 91 million as of September 30, 2019. Recoveries : AM has insurance coverage that management believes covers indemnity and defense costs, over and above self-insurance retentions, for a significant portion of these claims. The insurance receivables for Rockwell asbestos-related liabilities totaled $ 59 million and $ 61 million as of June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2019, respectively. The amounts recorded for the asbestos-related reserves and recoveries from insurance companies are based upon assumptions and estimates derived from currently known facts. All such estimates of liabilities and recoveries for asbestos-related claims are subject to considerable uncertainty because such liabilities and recoveries are influenced by variables that are difficult to predict. The future litigation environment for Rockwell could change significantly from its past experience, due, for example, to changes in the mix of claims filed against Rockwell in terms of plaintiffs law firm, jurisdiction and disease; legislative or regulatory developments; the companys approach to defending claims; or payments to plaintiffs from other defendants. Estimated recoveries are influenced by coverage issues among insurers and the continuing solvency of various insurance companies. If the assumptions with respect to the estimation period, the nature of pending claims, the cost to resolve claims and the amount of available insurance prove to be incorrect, the actual amount of liability for Rockwell asbestos-related claims, and the effect on the company, could differ materially from current estimates and, therefore, could have a material impact on the companys financial condition and results of operations. Indemnification The company has provided indemnities in conjunction with certain transactions, primarily divestitures. These indemnities address a variety of matters, which may include environmental, tax, asbestos and employment-related matters, and the periods of indemnification vary in duration. The company is not aware of any claims or other information that would give rise to material payments under such indemnification obligations. Other In addition, various lawsuits, claims and proceedings, other than those specifically disclosed in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, have been or may be instituted or asserted against the company, relating to the conduct of the companys business, including those pertaining to product liability, warranty or recall claims, intellectual property, safety and health, contract and employment matters. Although the outcome of other litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and some lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the company, management believes the disposition of matters that are pending will not have a material effect on the companys business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 21. Shareholders' Equity There were no dividends declared or paid in the first, second or third quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019. The payment of cash dividends and the amount of any dividend are subject to review and change at the discretion of the company's Board of Directors. Common Stock and Debt Repurchase Authorizations On November 7, 2019, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $ 325 million of the company's common stock, which was an increase from the prior $ 250 million authorization approved on July 26, 2019. Repurchases can be made from time to time through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, subject to compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and the companys debt covenants. During fiscal year 2019, the company repurchased 1.3 million shares of common stock for $ 25 million (including commission costs) pursuant to this common stock repurchase authorization. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, the company repurchased 4.9 million shares of common stock for 28 MERITOR, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) $ 100 million (including commission costs) pursuant to this authorization. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2020, the company repurchased 5.6 million shares of common stock for $ 141 million (including commission costs) pursuant to this authorization. As of June 30, 2020, the amount remaining available for repurchases under this common stock repurchase authorization was $ 59 million. On March 25, 2020, the company suspended activity under its share repurchase program as a result of uncertainties in the global economy due to the COVID-19 pandemic. On November 2, 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $ 200 million of the company's common stock and up to $ 100 million aggregate principal amount of any of the company's debt securities (including convertible debt securities), in each case from time to time through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, subject to compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and the company's debt covenants. The remaining authority under the common stock repurchase authorization was superseded by the July 2019 authorization described above. As of June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2019, the amount remaining available for repurchase under this debt repurchase authorization was $ 76 million. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss ("AOCL") The components of AOCL and the changes in AOCL by components, net of tax, for the three months ended June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019 are as follows (in millions): Foreign Currency Translation Employee Benefit Related Adjustments Unrealized Income (Loss) on cash flow hedges Total Balance at March 31, 2020 $ ( 142 ) $ ( 567 ) $ ( 5 ) $ ( 714 ) Other comprehensive income before reclassification 10 10 Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss 3 3 Net current-period other comprehensive income 10 3 13 Balance at June 30, 2020 $ ( 132 ) $ ( 564 ) $ ( 5 ) $ ( 701 ) Details about Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Components Amount Reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Affected Line Item in the Consolidated Statement of Operations Employee Benefit Related Adjustment Prior service benefit $ ( 9 ) (a) Actuarial losses 12 (a) 3 Total before tax Tax benefit Total reclassifications for the period $ 3 Net of tax (a) These accumulated other comprehensive income components are included in the computation of net periodic pension and retiree medical expense (see Note 19 for additional details), which is recorded in other income (expense), net. Foreign Currency Translation Employee Benefit Related Adjustments Unrealized Income (Loss) on cash flow hedges Total Balance at March 31, 2019 $ ( 87 ) $ ( 475 ) $ $ ( 562 ) Other comprehensive income before reclassification ( 6 ) ( 6 ) Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss 1 ( 2 ) ( 1 ) Net current-period other comprehensive income $ ( 6 ) $ 1 $ ( 2 ) $ ( 7 ) Balance at June 30, 2019 $ ( 93 ) $ ( 474 ) $ ( 2 ) $ ( 569 ) 29 MERITOR, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Details about Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Components Amount Reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Affected Line Item in the Consolidated Statement of Operations Employee Benefit Related Adjustment Prior service benefit $ ( 9 ) (b) Actuarial losses 10 (b) 1 Total before tax Tax benefit Total reclassifications for the period $ 1 Net of tax (b) These accumulated other comprehensive income components are included in the computation of net periodic pension and retiree medical expense (see Note 19 for additional details), which is recorded in other income (expense), net. The components of AOCL and the changes in AOCL by components, net of tax, for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019 are as follows (in millions): Foreign Currency Translation Employee Benefit Related Adjustments Unrealized Income (Loss) on cash flow hedges Total Balance at September 30, 2019 $ ( 107 ) $ ( 572 ) $ ( 2 ) $ ( 681 ) Other comprehensive income before reclassification ( 25 ) ( 3 ) ( 28 ) Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss 8 8 Net current-period other comprehensive income ( 25 ) 8 ( 3 ) ( 20 ) Balance at June 30, 2020 $ ( 132 ) $ ( 564 ) $ ( 5 ) $ ( 701 ) Details about Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Components Amount Reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Affected Line Item in the Consolidated Statement of Operations Employee Benefit Related Adjustment Prior service benefit $ ( 27 ) (a) Actuarial losses 35 (a) 8 Total before tax Tax benefit Total reclassifications for the period $ 8 Net of tax (a) These accumulated other comprehensive income components are included in the computation of net periodic pension and retiree medical expense (see Note 19 for additional details), which is recorded in other income (expense), net. Foreign Currency Translation Employee Benefit Related Adjustments Unrealized Income (Loss) on cash flow hedges Total Balance at September 30, 2018 $ ( 90 ) $ ( 476 ) $ $ ( 566 ) Other comprehensive income before reclassification ( 3 ) ( 1 ) ( 4 ) Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss 3 ( 2 ) 1 Net current-period other comprehensive income $ ( 3 ) $ 2 $ ( 2 ) $ ( 3 ) Balance at June 30, 2019 $ ( 93 ) $ ( 474 ) $ ( 2 ) $ ( 569 ) 30 MERITOR, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Details about Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Components Amount Reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Affected Line Item in the Consolidated Statement of Operations Employee Benefit Related Adjustment Prior service benefit $ ( 26 ) (b) Actuarial losses 29 (b) 3 Total before tax Tax benefit Total reclassifications for the period $ 3 Net of tax (b) These accumulated other comprehensive income components are included in the computation of net periodic pension and retiree medical expense (see Note 19 for additional details), which is recorded in other income (expense), net. 22. Business Segment Information The company defines its operating segments as components of its business where separate financial information is available and is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The companys Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM") is the Chief Executive Officer. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, the company realigned its operations resulting in a change to its operating and reportable segments. As of the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, the reportable segments are (1) Commercial Truck and (2) Aftermarket and Industrial. Prior year reportable segment financial results have been recast for these changes. The company has two reportable segments at June 30, 2020, as follows: The Commercial Truck segment supplies drivetrain systems and components, including axles, drivelines and braking and suspension systems, primarily for medium- and heavy-duty trucks and other applications in North America, South America, Europe and Asia Pacific. It also supplies a variety of undercarriage products and systems for trailer applications in North America. This segment includes our aftermarket businesses in Asia Pacific and South America. The Aftermarket and Industrial segment supplies axles, brakes, drivelines, suspension parts and other replacement parts to commercial vehicle and industrial aftermarket customers, primarily in North America and Europe. In addition, this segment supplies drivetrain systems and certain components, including axles, drivelines, brakes and suspension systems for military, construction, bus and coach, fire and emergency and other applications in North America and Europe. Segment adjusted EBITDA is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, non-controlling interests in consolidated joint ventures, loss on sale of receivables, restructuring expense, asset impairment charges and other special items as determined by management. Segment adjusted EBITDA excludes unallocated legacy and corporate income (expense), net. The company uses segment adjusted EBITDA as the primary basis for the CODM to evaluate the performance of each of its reportable segments. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those applied in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, except for the use of segment adjusted EBITDA. The company may allocate certain common costs, primarily corporate functions, between the segments differently than the company would for stand alone financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. These allocated costs include expenses for shared services such as information technology, finance, communications, legal and human resources. The company does not allocate interest expense and certain legacy and other corporate costs not directly associated with the segment. 31 MERITOR, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Segment information is summarized as follows (in millions): Commercial Truck Aftermarket and Industrial Eliminations Total Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 External Sales $ 315 $ 199 $ $ 514 Intersegment Sales 21 4 ( 25 ) Total Sales $ 336 $ 203 $ ( 25 ) $ 514 Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 (1) External Sales $ 890 $ 276 $ $ 1,166 Intersegment Sales 35 6 ( 41 ) Total Sales $ 925 $ 282 $ ( 41 ) $ 1,166 Commercial Truck Aftermarket and Industrial Eliminations Total Nine Months Ended June 30, 2020 External Sales $ 1,544 $ 742 $ $ 2,286 Intersegment Sales 86 13 ( 99 ) Total Sales $ 1,630 $ 755 $ ( 99 ) $ 2,286 Nine Months Ended June 30, 2019 (1) External Sales $ 2,564 $ 796 $ $ 3,360 Intersegment Sales 114 15 ( 129 ) Total Sales $ 2,678 $ 811 $ ( 129 ) $ 3,360 (1) Amounts for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 have been recast to reflect reportable segment changes. 32 MERITOR, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Three Months Ended June 30, Nine Months Ended June 30, 2020 2019 (3) 2020 2019 (3) Segment adjusted EBITDA: Commercial Truck $ ( 23 ) $ 97 $ 92 $ 270 Aftermarket and Industrial 31 50 116 134 Segment adjusted EBITDA 8 147 208 404 Unallocated legacy and corporate expense, net (1) ( 1 ) ( 1 ) 4 Interest expense, net ( 17 ) ( 14 ) ( 47 ) ( 43 ) Benefit (provision) for income taxes 13 ( 21 ) ( 73 ) ( 69 ) Depreciation and amortization ( 24 ) ( 21 ) ( 74 ) ( 64 ) Noncontrolling interests ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 5 ) ( 7 ) Loss on sale of receivables ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 5 ) Asset impairment charges ( 1 ) ( 1 ) Restructuring ( 12 ) 1 ( 27 ) 2 Transaction costs ( 5 ) Income from WABCO distribution termination 265 Asbestos related liability remeasurement (2) 31 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Meritor, Inc. $ ( 36 ) $ 85 $ 243 $ 248 (1) Unallocated legacy and corporate income (expense), net represents items that are not directly related to the company's business segments. These items primarily include asbestos-related charges and settlements, pension and retiree medical costs associated with sold businesses, and other legacy costs for environmental and product liability. (2) The nine months ended June 30, 2019 includes $ 31 million related to the remeasurement of the Maremont asbestos liability based on the Maremont prepackaged plan of reorganization. (3) Amounts for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 have been recast to reflect reportable segment changes. June 30, 2020 September 30, 2019 (3) Segment Assets: Commercial Truck $ 1,579 $ 1,745 Aftermarket and Industrial 658 729 Total segment assets 2,237 2,474 Corporate (1) 761 567 Less: Accounts receivable sold under off-balance sheet factoring programs (2) ( 126 ) ( 226 ) Total assets $ 2,872 $ 2,815 (1) Corporate assets consist primarily of cash, deferred income taxes and prepaid pension costs. (2) At June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2019, segment assets include $ 126 million and $ 226 million, respectively, of accounts receivable sold under off-balance sheet accounts receivable factoring programs (see Note 10). These sold receivables are included in segment assets as the CODM reviews segment assets inclusive of these balances. (3) Amounts as of September 30, 2019 have been recast to reflect reportable segment changes, including the reallocation of goodwill.. 33 MERITOR, INC. Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Meritor, Inc. (the "company," "our," "we" or "Meritor"), headquartered in Troy, Michigan, is a premier global supplier of a broad range of integrated systems, modules and components to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") and the aftermarket for the commercial vehicle, transportation and industrial sectors. The company serves commercial truck, trailer, military, bus and coach, construction, and other industrial OEMs and certain aftermarkets. Meritor common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol MTOR. COVID-19 Pandemic Update In March 2020 the World Health Organization declared a global health pandemic related to the recent outbreak of a novel coronavirus. The COVID-19 pandemic adversely affected our financial performance in the second and third quarters of fiscal year 2020 and will continue to have an adverse impact for at least the remainder of fiscal year 2020. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, government health officials have recommended and mandated precautions to mitigate the spread of the virus, including shelter-in-place orders, prohibitions on public gatherings and other similar measures. As a result, we and certain of our customers and suppliers temporarily closed select manufacturing locations beginning late in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020, continuing into the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. As of May 31, 2020, all of our global facilities were operating limited production. Most of our salaried employees are working remotely until further notice. There is uncertainty around the duration and breadth of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the impact it will have on our operations, supply chain and demand for our products. As a result, the ultimate impact on our business, financial condition or operating results cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Employee Health and Safety We established and executed a Safe Start plan for the reopening of plants, test labs, distribution centers and administrative facilities. We intend to operate under these enhanced safety guidelines for the foreseeable future. To ensure consistent application and compliance with these safety protocols, we have expanded the role of our Vice President and General Auditor to include responsibilities as Chief Safety Compliance Officer. Operations We are complying with shelter-in-place and similar government orders in various locations around the world, as applicable. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic led to suspended production in most of our global commercial truck manufacturing facilities beginning late in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020 and continuing into the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. All of our operations are now running limited production. Our operations in China were temporarily suspended in mid-January and resumed production in mid-February and are now fully operational. As we also serve the transportation, industrial and defense industries, we also continued to support customers who are actively engaged in the COVID-19 pandemic response. Our Aftermarket business remained fully operational to maintain the supply of critical replacement parts to the vital truck and trailer transportation network. Our Industrial businesses also remained operational at varying levels to support the production of vehicles deemed critical, including defense, bus and coach, terminal tractor, fire and rescue and off-highway applications. We will continue to monitor government and other mandates to understand the potential impact on our operations in other areas. Cost Reductions In March 2020, we implemented a series of cost reduction measures to preserve our financial flexibility, including a reduction to the base salary of each of our executive officers and salaried employees in the United States and Canada of between 40 percent and 60 percent effective April 1 through April 30, 2020, a reduction between 20 percent and 60 percent effective May 1, 2020 through June 15, 2020 and a reduction between 10 percent and 20 percent effective June 16, 2020. We also suspended certain employer-paid retirement and pension contributions and modified certain retiree health benefits effective May 1, 2020. Additionally, on June 2, 2020, we approved a restructuring plan to reduce headcount globally that affects approximately eight-percent of our global salaried positions, as well as eliminated certain hourly roles. This restructuring plan is intended to reduce labor costs in response to an anticipated decline in most global truck and trailer market volumes. With this restructuring plan, we expect to incur approximately $25 million in employee severance costs across both of our reportable segments. Restructuring actions associated with this plan are expected to be substantially complete by the end of first quarter of fiscal year 2021. We will continue to evaluate further cost reduction measures as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic becomes clearer. 34 MERITOR, INC. Special Incentive Plan On June 10, 2020, we approved a special incentive plan to better align the compensation of our employees with the strategic goals of the company for the remainder of fiscal year 2020 given the impacts of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Awards under the special incentive plan are also designed to give employees an opportunity, if certain performance targets are met, to recoup lost salary stemming from the base pay reductions instituted by us in response to the pandemic, which are expected to remain partially reduced through at least the end of fiscal year 2020. The special incentive plan targets are based on liquidity and cost reduction targets. 3rd Quarter Fiscal Year 2020 Results Our sales for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 were $514 million, compared to $1,166 million in the same period in the prior fiscal year, a decrease of 56 percent year over year. The decrease in sales was primarily due to lower market volumes driven by decreased customer demand and government mandates as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The majority of the company's manufacturing facilities were idled during the month of April with production increasing throughout the remainder of the quarter. Net loss attributable to Meritor for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 was $36 million compared to net income attributable to Meritor of $86 million in the same period in the prior fiscal year. Lower net income year over year was driven primarily by lower revenues as a result significantly lower market volumes due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as higher restructuring costs related to programs announced in June 2020. During the quarter, certain actions were executed in order to decrease the impact of the significantly lower production levels. These actions included temporary salary reductions, employee headcount reductions, hourly employee layoffs and other discretionary spend reductions. Adjusted EBITDA (see Non-GAAP Financial Measures below) for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 was $7 million compared to $146 million in the same period in the prior fiscal year. Our adjusted EBITDA margin (see Non-GAAP Financial Measures below) in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 was 1.4 percent compared to 12.5 percent in the same period in the prior fiscal year. The decrease in adjusted EBITDA year over year was driven primarily by lower revenues as a result of lower market volumes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Cost reduction actions executed in the quarter partially offset the impact from lower revenue. Net loss from continuing operations attributable to the company for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 was $36 million compared to net income from continuing operations attributable to the company of $85 million in the same period in the prior fiscal year. Adjusted loss from continuing operations attributable to the company (see Non-GAAP Financial Measures below) for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 was $34 million compared to adjusted income from continuing operations attributable to the company of $103 million in the same period in the prior fiscal year. Cash used for operating activities was $102 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to cash provided by operating activities of $143 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019. The decrease in operating cash flow year on year was driven primarily by lower revenues as a result of significantly lower market volumes due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Of the total decline in operating cash flow, $124 million of the reduction was due to the impact of accounts receivable factoring as a result of lower balances available under the factoring programs. Reportable Segment Changes On May 4, 2020, we realigned our operations resulting in a change to our operating and reportable segments. As of the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, the reportable segments are (1) Commercial Truck and (2) Aftermarket and Industrial. Prior year reportable segment financial results have been recast for these changes. Capital Markets Transactions During the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, we issued $300 million of 6.25 percent unsecured senior notes due 2025 (the "2025 Notes"). Net proceeds from the offering of the notes, as well as cash on hand, were used to repay the outstanding $304 million balance under our senior secured credit facility. 35 MERITOR, INC. Trends and Uncertainties Industry Production Volumes The following table reflects estimated on-highway commercial truck production volumes for selected original equipment markets for the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 based on available sources and managements estimates. Three Months Ended June 30, Percent Nine Months Ended June 30, Percent 2020 2019 Change 2020 2019 Change Estimated Commercial Truck production (in thousands): North America, Heavy-Duty Trucks 28 96 (71) % 159 269 (41) % North America, Medium-Duty Trucks 37 78 (53) % 157 213 (26) % North America, Trailers 45 86 (48) % 180 251 (28) % Western Europe, Heavy- and Medium-Duty Trucks 44 122 (64) % 241 379 (36) % South America, Heavy- and Medium-Duty Trucks 19 28 (32) % 71 78 (9) % India, Heavy- and Medium-Duty Trucks 7 93 (92) % 98 326 (70) % The third quarter of fiscal year 2020 was significantly impacted by production shut-downs attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect production volumes to increase in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 in comparison with the third quarter of fiscal 2020. However, volumes in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 are expected to be significantly lower than those experienced in fiscal year 2019. North America: During fiscal year 2020, we expect production volumes to significantly decrease from the levels experienced in fiscal year 2019. Western Europe: During fiscal year 2020, we expect production volumes in Western Europe to significantly decrease from the levels experienced in fiscal year 2019. South America: During fiscal year 2020, we expect production volumes to decrease from the levels experienced in fiscal year 2019. China: During fiscal year 2020, we expect production volumes to slightly increase from the levels experienced in fiscal year 2019. India: During fiscal year 2020, we expect production volumes to significantly decrease from the levels experienced in fiscal year 2019. Industry-Wide Issues and Other Significant Issues Our business continues to address a number of challenging industry-wide issues, including the following: Uncertainty regarding the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on public health, the global economy, financial markets and operations, including additional expense related to enhancing safety measures for our employees; Uncertainty around the global economic outlook; Volatility in price and availability of steel, components, transportation costs and other commodities, including energy; Potential for disruptions in the financial markets and their impact on the availability and cost of credit; Impact of currency exchange rate volatility; and 36 MERITOR, INC. Consolidation and globalization of OEMs and their suppliers. Other significant factors that could affect our results and liquidity include: Significant contract awards or losses of existing contracts or failure to negotiate acceptable terms in contract renewals; Ability to successfully execute and implement strategic initiatives, including the ability to launch a significant number of new products, potential product quality issues, and obtain new business; Ability to manage possible adverse effects on European markets or our European operations, or financing arrangements related thereto, following the United Kingdom's decision to exit the European Union, or in the event one or more other countries exit the European monetary union; Ability to further implement planned productivity, cost reduction and other margin improvement initiatives; Ability to work with our customers to manage rapidly changing production volumes, including in the event of production interruptions affecting us, our customers or our suppliers; Competitively driven price reductions to our customers or potential price increases from our suppliers; Additional restructuring actions and the timing and recognition of restructuring charges, including any actions associated with prolonged softness in markets in which we operate; Higher-than-planned warranty expenses, including the outcome of known or potential recall campaigns; Uncertainties of asbestos claim, environmental and other legal proceedings, the long-term solvency of our insurance carriers and the potential for higher-than-anticipated costs resulting from environmental liabilities, including those related to site remediation; Significant pension costs; and Restrictive government actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including import and export duties, quotas and customs duties and tariffs). NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES In addition to the results reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"), we have provided information regarding non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures include adjusted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the company, adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, segment adjusted EBITDA, segment adjusted EBITDA margin and free cash flow. Adjusted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the company and adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations are defined as reported income (loss) from continuing operations and reported diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations before restructuring expenses, asset impairment charges, non-cash tax expense related to the use of deferred tax assets in jurisdictions with net operating loss carry forwards or tax credits, and other special items as determined by management. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, non-controlling interests in consolidated joint ventures, loss on sale of receivables, restructuring expenses, asset impairment charges and other special items as determined by management. Adjusted EBITDA margin is defined as adjusted EBITDA divided by consolidated sales from continuing operations. Segment adjusted EBITDA is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, noncontrolling interests in consolidated joint ventures, loss on sale of receivables, restructuring expense, asset impairment charges and other special items as determined by management. Segment adjusted EBITDA excludes unallocated legacy and corporate expense (income), net. Segment adjusted EBITDA margin is defined as segment adjusted EBITDA divided by consolidated sales from continuing operations, either in the aggregate or by segment as applicable. Free cash flow is defined as cash flows provided by (used for) operating activities less capital expenditures. 37 MERITOR, INC. Management believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to both management and investors in their analysis of the company's financial position and results of operations. In particular, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, segment adjusted EBITDA, segment adjusted EBITDA margin, adjusted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the company and adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations are meaningful measures of performance to investors as they are commonly utilized to analyze financial performance in our industry, perform analytical comparisons, benchmark performance between periods and measure our performance against externally communicated targets. Free cash flow is used by investors and management to analyze our ability to service and repay debt and return value directly to shareholders. Free cash flow over adjusted income from continuing operations is a specific financial measure of our M2022 plan used to measure the company's ability to convert earnings to free cash flow. Management uses the aforementioned non-GAAP financial measures for planning and forecasting purposes, and segment adjusted EBITDA is also used as the primary basis for the Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM") to evaluate the performance of each of our reportable segments. Our Board of Directors uses adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flow, adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations and free cash flow over adjusted income from continuing operations as key metrics to determine managements performance under our performance-based compensation plans. Adjusted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the company, adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, segment adjusted EBITDA and segment adjusted EBITDA margin should not be considered a substitute for the reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our financial performance. Free cash flow should not be considered a substitute for cash provided by (used for) operating activities, or other cash flow statement data prepared in accordance with GAAP, or as a measure of financial position or liquidity. In addition, this non-GAAP cash flow measure does not reflect cash used to repay debt or cash received from the divestitures of businesses or sales of other assets and thus does not reflect funds available for investment or other discretionary uses. These non-GAAP financial measures, as determined and presented by the company, may not be comparable to related or similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Set forth below are reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the company and adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations are reconciled to Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the company and Diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations below (in millions, except per share amounts). Three Months Ended June 30, Nine Months Ended June 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the company $ (36) $ 85 $ 243 $ 248 Restructuring 12 (1) 27 (2) Asset impairment charges, net of noncontrolling interests 1 1 Non-cash tax expense (benefit) (1) (8) 20 9 47 U.S. tax reform impacts (2) (2) (9) Asbestos related liability remeasurement (3) (31) Income from WABCO distribution termination (265) Income tax expense (benefit) (4) (2) 55 6 Transaction costs (5) 5 Adjusted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the company $ (34) $ 103 $ 74 $ 260 Diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations $ (0.50) $ 0.99 $ 3.19 $ 2.86 Impact of adjustments on diluted earnings per share 0.03 0.21 (2.22) 0.14 Adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations $ (0.47) $ 1.20 $ 0.97 $ 3.00 38 MERITOR, INC. (1) Represents tax expense (benefit) related to the use of deferred tax assets in jurisdictions with net operating loss carry forwards or tax credits. (2) The nine months ended June 30, 2019 includes $12 million of non-cash tax benefit related to the one time deemed repatriation of accumulated foreign earnings and $3 million of non-cash tax expense related to other adjustments. (3) The nine months ended June 30, 2019 includes $31 million related to the remeasurement of the Maremont net asbestos liability based on the Maremont prepackaged plan of reorganization. (4) The three months ended June 30, 2020 includes $2 million of income tax benefits related to restructuring. The nine months ended June 30, 2020 includes $62 million of income tax expense related to the WABCO distribution arrangement termination, $6 million of income tax benefits related to restructuring and $1 million of income tax benefits related to AxleTech transaction costs. The nine months ended June 30, 2019 includes $6 million of income tax expense related to the remeasurement of the Maremont net asbestos liability based on the Maremont prepackaged plan of reorganization. (5) Represents transaction fees and inventory step-up amortization related to the acquisitions of AxleTech and TransPower. Free cash flow is reconciled to cash provided by operating activities below (in millions). Three Months Ended June 30, Nine Months Ended June 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Cash provided by (used for) operating activities $ (102) $ 143 $ 188 $ 194 Capital expenditures (12) (19) (45) (63) Free cash flow $ (114) $ 124 $ 143 $ 131 Free cash flow conversion (1) N/A 120 % 193 % 50 % (1) Represents free cash flow divided by adjusted income from continuing operations. 39 MERITOR, INC. Adjusted EBITDA and segment adjusted EBITDA are reconciled to net income (loss) attributable to Meritor, Inc. below (dollars in millions). Three Months Ended June 30, Nine Months Ended June 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Net income (loss) attributable to Meritor, Inc. $ (36) $ 86 $ 244 $ 248 Loss (income) from discontinued operations, net of tax, attributable to Meritor, Inc. (1) (1) Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, attributable to Meritor, Inc. $ (36) $ 85 $ 243 $ 248 Interest expense, net 17 14 47 43 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (13) 21 73 69 Depreciation and amortization 24 21 74 64 Noncontrolling interests 2 3 5 7 Loss on sale of receivables 1 2 3 5 Asset impairment charges 1 1 Asbestos related liability remeasurement (31) Restructuring 12 (1) 27 (2) Transaction costs 5 Income from WABCO distribution termination (265) Adjusted EBITDA $ 7 $ 146 $ 212 $ 404 Adjusted EBITDA margin (1) 1.4 % 12.5 % 9.3 % 12.0 % Unallocated legacy and corporate expense (income), net (2) 1 1 (4) Segment adjusted EBITDA $ 8 $ 147 $ 208 $ 404 Commercial Truck (3) Segment adjusted EBITDA $ (23) $ 97 $ 92 $ 270 Segment adjusted EBITDA margin (4) (6.8) % 10.5 % 5.6 % 10.1 % Aftermarket and Industrial (3) Segment adjusted EBITDA $ 31 $ 50 116 $ 134 Segment adjusted EBITDA margin (4) 15.3 % 17.7 % 15.4 % 16.5 % (1) Adjusted EBITDA margin equals adjusted EBITDA divided by consolidated sales from continuing operations. (2) Unallocated legacy and corporate expense (income), net represents items that are not directly related to the company's business segments. These items primarily include asbestos-related charges and settlements, pension and retiree medical costs associated with sold businesses, and other legacy costs for environmental and product liability. (3) Amounts for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 have been recast to reflect reportable segment changes. (4) Segment adjusted EBITDA margin equals segment adjusted EBITDA divided by consolidated sales from continuing operations, either in the aggregate or by segment as applicable. 40 MERITOR, INC. Results of Operations Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 Compared to Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 Sales The following table reflects total company and business segment sales for the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 (dollars in millions). The reconciliation is intended to reflect the trend in business segment sales and to illustrate the impact that changes in foreign currency exchange rates, volumes and other factors had on sales. Business segment sales include intersegment sales. Three Months Ended June 30, Dollar Change Due To 2020 2019 (1) Dollar Change % Change Currency Volume/ Other Sales: Commercial Truck North America $ 164 $ 528 $ (364) (69) % $ $ (364) Europe 70 180 (110) (61) % (2) (108) South America 21 67 (46) (69) % (7) (39) China 41 44 (3) (7) % (2) (1) India 5 53 (48) (91) % (48) Other 14 18 (4) (22) % (4) Total External Sales $ 315 $ 890 $ (575) (65) % $ (11) $ (564) Intersegment Sales 21 35 (14) (40) % (1) (13) Total Sales $ 336 $ 925 $ (589) (64) % $ (12) $ (577) Aftermarket and Industrial North America $ 164 $ 253 $ (89) (35) % $ (1) $ (88) Europe 33 23 10 43 % 10 Other 2 2 N/A 2 Total External Sales $ 199 $ 276 $ (77) (28) % $ (1) $ (76) Intersegment Sales 4 6 (2) (33) % (2) Total Sales $ 203 $ 282 $ (79) (28) % $ (1) $ (78) Total External Sales $ 514 $ 1,166 $ (652) (56) % $ (12) $ (640) (1) Amounts for the three months June 30, 2019 have been recast to reflect reportable segment changes. Commercial Truck sales were $336 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, down 64 percent compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2019. The decrease in sales in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 was primarily due to lower volumes driven by decreased customer demand and government mandates as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The majority of the companys production facilities were idled during the month of April with production increasing throughout the remainder of the quarter. Aftermarket and Industrial sales were $203 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, down 28 percent compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2019. While Aftermarket facilities were not idled during the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, sales were lower in comparison with fiscal year 2019 due to changes in customer demand and the impact from the termination of the WABCO distribution arrangement. Industrial sales were also down, driven primarily by decreased volumes as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by the revenue generated from the AxleTech business. 41 MERITOR, INC. Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 2019 Dollar Change % Change Sales $ 514 $ 1,166 $ (652) (56) % Cost of sales (486) (987) 501 51 % GROSS PROFIT 28 179 (151) (84) % Selling, general and administrative (52) (73) 21 29 % Other operating expense, net (17) (2) (15) 750 % Other income, net 12 10 2 20 % Equity in earnings of affiliates (1) 9 (10) (111) % Interest expense, net (17) (14) (3) (21) % INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES (47) 109 (156) (143) % Benefit (provision) for income taxes 13 (21) 34 162 % INCOME (LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (34) 88 (122) (139) % INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, net of tax 1 (1) (100) % NET INCOME (LOSS) (34) 89 (123) (138) % Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (2) (3) 1 (33) % NET INCOME (LOSS) ATTRIBUTABLE TO MERITOR, INC. $ (36) $ 86 $ (122) (142) % Cost of Sales and Gross Profit Cost of sales primarily represents materials, labor and overhead production costs associated with the companys products and production facilities. Cost of sales for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was $486 million compared to $987 million in the same period in the prior fiscal year, representing a decrease of 51 percent, primarily driven by decreased market volumes. Total cost of sales was 94.6 and 84.6 percent of sales for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Material costs represent the majority of our cost of sales and include raw materials, composed primarily of steel, and purchased components. Material costs for the three months ended June 30, 2020 decreased $439 million compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to significantly lower volumes. The majority of the companys manufacturing facilities were idled during the month of April 2020 with production increasing throughout the remainder of the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. Labor and overhead costs decreased by $67 million compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to lower volumes. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, we also executed certain actions in order to decrease the impacts of the significantly lower production levels. These actions included hourly employee layoffs and other discretionary spend reductions. Incentive compensation costs were also lower compared to the prior year. Gross profit was $28 million and $179 million for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 5.4 and 15.4 percent for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of sales decreased as lower sales more than offset the lower material, labor and overhead costs. Other Income Statement Items Selling, general and administrative expenses ("SG&A") for the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 were $52 million and $73 million, respectively. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, we executed certain actions in order to decrease the impacts of the significantly lower production levels. These actions included temporary salary reductions, employee headcount reductions, and other discretionary spend reductions. Incentive compensation costs were also lower compared to the prior year. Benefit for income taxes was $13 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to a provision for income taxes of $21 million in the same period in the prior fiscal year. The decrease in tax expense is primarily related to losses in certain jurisdictions that do not have a tax valuation allowance. 42 MERITOR, INC. Segment Adjusted EBITDA and Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margins The following table reflects segment adjusted EBITDA and segment adjusted EBITDA margins for the three months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 (dollars in millions). Segment adjusted EBITDA Segment adjusted EBITDA margins Three Months Ended June 30, Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 2019 (1) Change 2020 2019 (1) Change Commercial Truck $ (23) 97 $ (120) (6.8) % 10.5 % (17.3) pts Aftermarket and Industrial 31 50 (19) 15.3 % 17.7 % (2.4) pts Segment adjusted EBITDA $ 8 $ 147 $ (139) 1.6 % 12.6 % (11) pts (1) Amounts for the three months ended June 30, 2019 have been recast to reflect reportable segment changes. Significant items impacting year-over-year segment adjusted EBITDA include the following (in millions): Commercial Truck Aftermarket and Industrial TOTAL Segment adjusted EBITDA Quarter ended June 30, 2019 (1) $ 97 $ 50 $ 147 Lower earnings from unconsolidated affiliates (10) (10) Impact of foreign currency exchange rates (8) (2) (10) Cost reduction actions 22 9 31 Volume, mix, pricing and other (124) (26) (150) Segment adjusted EBITDA Quarter ended June 30, 2020 $ (23) $ 31 $ 8 (1) Amounts for the three months ended June 30, 2019 have been recast to reflect reportable segment changes. ` Commercial Truck segment adjusted EBITDA was $(23) million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, down $120 million from the same period in the prior fiscal year. Segment adjusted EBITDA margin decreased from 10.5 percent in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 to (6.8) percent in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. The decrease in segment adjusted EBITDA and segment adjusted EBITDA margin were driven primarily by significantly decreased market volumes for most regions across the segment due to the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by cost reduction actions executed in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. Aftermarket and Industrial segment adjusted EBITDA was $31 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, down $19 million from the same period in the prior fiscal year. Segment adjusted EBITDA margin decreased from 17.7 percent in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 to 15.3 percent in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. The decrease in segment adjusted EBITDA and segment adjusted EBITDA margin was driven primarily by lower volumes, partially offset by the cost reduction actions executed in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. 43 MERITOR, INC. Results of Operations Nine Months Ended June 30, 2020 Compared to Nine Months Ended June 30, 2019 Sales The following table reflects total company and business segment sales for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 (dollars in millions). The reconciliation is intended to reflect the trend in business segment sales and to illustrate the impact that changes in foreign currency exchange rates, volumes and other factors had on sales. Business segment sales include intersegment sales. Nine Months Ended June 30, Dollar Change Due To 2020 2019 (1) Dollar Change % Change Currency Volume/ Other Sales: Commercial Truck North America $ 877 $ 1,481 $ (604) (41) % $ $ (604) Europe 351 536 (185) (35) % (10) (175) South America 124 180 (56) (31) % (20) (36) China 101 129 (28) (22) % (4) (24) India 49 172 (123) (72) % (123) Other 42 66 (24) (36) % (1) (23) Total External Sales $ 1,544 $ 2,564 $ (1,020) (40) % $ (35) $ (985) Intersegment Sales 86 114 (28) (25) % (4) (24) Total Sales $ 1,630 $ 2,678 $ (1,048) (39) % $ (39) $ (1,009) Aftermarket and Industrial North America $ 620 $ 721 $ (101) (14) % $ (1) $ (100) Europe 118 75 43 57 % (3) 46 Other 4 4 N/A 4 Total External Sales $ 742 $ 796 $ (54) (7) % $ (4) $ (50) Intersegment Sales 13 15 (2) (13) % (2) Total Sales $ 755 $ 811 $ (56) (7) % $ (6) $ (50) Total External Sales $ 2,286 $ 3,360 $ (1,074) (32) % $ (39) $ (1,035) (1) Amounts for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 have been recast to reflect reportable segment changes. Commercial Truck sales were $1,630 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020, down 39 percent compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2019. Lower sales were driven by significantly lower market volumes driven by decreased customer demand and government mandates as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The majority of our production facilities were idled during the month of April with production increasing throughout the remainder of the quarter. Aftermarket and Industrial sales were $755 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020, down 7 percent compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2019. Lower sales were primarily driven by by decreased volumes across the segment. While Aftermarket sites were not idled during the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, sales were lower compared to fiscal year 2019 due to changes in customer demand and the impact from the termination of the WABCO distribution arrangement. Industrial sales were also down, driven primarily by decreased volumes as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by the revenue generated from the AxleTech business. 44 MERITOR, INC. Nine months ended June 30, 2020 2019 Dollar Change % Change Sales $ 2,286 $ 3,360 $ (1,074) (32) % Cost of sales (2,017) (2,866) 849 30 % GROSS PROFIT 269 494 (225) (46) % Selling, general and administrative (181) (180) (1) (1) % Income from WABCO distribution termination 265 265 N/A Other operating expense, net (32) (1) (31) 3,100 % Other income, net 36 30 6 20 % Equity in earnings of affiliates 11 24 (13) (54) % Interest expense, net (47) (43) (4) (9) % INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 321 324 (3) (1) % Provision for income taxes (73) (69) (4) (6) % INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 248 255 (7) (3) % INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, net of tax 1 (1) 2 200 % NET INCOME 249 255 (6) (2) % Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (5) (7) 2 (29) % NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO MERITOR, INC. $ 244 $ 248 $ (4) (2) % Cost of Sales and Gross Profit Cost of sales primarily represents materials, labor and overhead production costs associated with the companys products and production facilities. Cost of sales for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 was $2,017 million compared to $2,866 million in the same period in the prior fiscal year, representing a decrease of 30 percent, primarily driven by decreased market volumes. Total cost of sales was 88.2 and 85.3 percent of sales for the nine-month periods ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Material costs represent the majority of our cost of sales and include raw materials, composed primarily of steel, and purchased components. Material costs for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 decreased $749 million compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to significantly lower volumes. The third quarter of fiscal year 2020 was significantly impacted by the idling of production facilities. The majority of the companys manufacturing facilities were idled during the month of April 2020 with production increasing throughout the remainder of the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. Labor and overhead costs decreased by $110 million compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to lower volumes. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, we executed certain actions in order to decrease the impacts of the significantly lower production levels. These actions included hourly employee layoffs and other discretionary spend reductions. Incentive compensation costs were also lower compared to the prior year. Gross profit was $269 million and $494 million for the nine-month periods ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 11.8 and 14.7 percent for the nine-month periods ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of sales decreased as lower sales more than offset the lower material, labor and overhead costs. Other Income Statement Items Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 were $181 million and $180 million, respectively. We recognized $31 million of income related to remeasuring the Maremont asbestos liability based on the terms of the plan of reorganization in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 (see Note 20 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I of this Quarterly Report). Excluding Maremont, SG&A was lower primarily due to certain actions executed in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 in order to decrease the impacts of the significantly lower production levels. These actions included temporary salary reductions, employee headcount reductions, and other discretionary spend reductions. Incentive compensation costs were also lower compared to the prior year. This was partially offset by additional costs generated from our AxleTech business, which was acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019, as well as higher electrification costs. 45 MERITOR, INC. Provision for income taxes was $73 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020 compared to $69 million in the same period in the prior fiscal year. The increase in tax expense is primarily related to the tax effect on the proceeds received from the termination of the WABCO distribution arrangement, largely offset lower earnings in certain jurisdictions that do not have a tax valuation allowance. Segment Adjusted EBITDA and Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margins The following table reflects segment adjusted EBITDA and segment adjusted EBITDA margins for the nine months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 (dollars in millions). Segment adjusted EBITDA Segment adjusted EBITDA margins Nine Months Ended June 30, Nine Months Ended June 30, 2020 2019 (1) Change 2020 2019 (1) Change Commercial Truck $ 92 $ 270 $ (178) 5.6 % 10.1 % (4.5) pts Aftermarket and Industrial 116 134 (18) 15.4 % 16.5 % (1.1) pts Segment adjusted EBITDA $ 208 $ 404 $ (196) 9.1 % 12.0 % (2.9) pts (1) Amounts for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 have been recast to reflect reportable segment changes. Significant items impacting year-over-year segment adjusted EBITDA include the following (in millions): Commercial Truck Aftermarket and Industrial TOTAL Segment adjusted EBITDA Nine months ended June 30, 2019 (1) $ 270 $ 134 $ 404 Lower earnings from unconsolidated affiliates (13) (13) Impact of foreign currency exchange rates (15) (4) (19) Cost savings actions 22 9 31 Volume, mix, pricing and other (172) (23) (195) Segment adjusted EBITDA Nine months ended June 30, 2020 $ 92 $ 116 $ 208 (1) Amounts for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 have been recast to reflect reportable segment changes. Commercial Truck segment adjusted EBITDA was $92 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020, down $178 million from the same period in the prior fiscal year. Segment adjusted EBITDA margin decreased from 10.1 percent in the first nine months of fiscal year 2019 to 5.6 percent in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020. The decrease in segment adjusted EBITDA and segment adjusted EBITDA margin were driven primarily by significantly decreased market volumes for most regions across the segment, primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by the cost reduction actions executed in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 and lower incentive compensation costs. Aftermarket and Industrial segment adjusted EBITDA was $116 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020, down $18 million from the same period in the prior fiscal year. Segment adjusted EBITDA margin decreased from 16.5 percent in the first nine months of fiscal year 2019 to 15.4 percent in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020. The decrease in segment adjusted EBITDA and segment adjusted EBITDA margin was driven primarily by lower volumes, partially offset by the cost reduction actions executed in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 and lower incentive compensation costs. 46 MERITOR, INC. Financial Condition Cash Flows (in millions) Nine Months Ended June 30, 2020 2019 OPERATING CASH FLOWS Income from continuing operations $ 248 $ 255 Depreciation and amortization 74 64 Deferred income tax expense (benefit) (4) 27 Restructuring costs 27 (2) Equity in earnings of affiliates (11) (24) Pension and retiree medical income (31) (28) Asbestos related liability remeasurement (31) Dividends received from equity method investments 8 14 Pension and retiree medical contributions (11) (12) Restructuring payments (21) (2) Changes in receivables, inventories and accounts payable 11 (96) Changes in off-balance sheet accounts receivable factoring (104) 41 Changes in other current assets and liabilities (26) (21) Changes in other assets and liabilities 25 (3) Other, net 3 13 Cash flows provided by continuing operations 188 196 Cash flows used for discontinued operations (2) CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES $ 188 $ 194 Cash provided by operating activities in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020 was $188 million compared to $194 million in the same period of fiscal year 2019. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was driven primarily by lower revenues, partially offset by $265 million of cash received from the WABCO distribution arrangement termination in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020. Nine Months Ended June 30, 2020 2019 INVESTING CASH FLOWS Capital expenditures $ (45) $ (63) Cash paid for acquisition of TransPower, net of cash acquired (13) (6) Other investing activities 9 17 CASH USED FOR INVESTING ACTIVITIES $ (49) $ (52) Cash used for investing activities was $49 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020 compared to $52 million in the same period in fiscal year 2019. 47 MERITOR, INC. Nine Months Ended June 30, 2020 2019 FINANCING CASH FLOWS Securitization $ (8) $ Borrowings against revolving line of credit 304 Repayments of revolving line of credit (304) (46) Proceeds from debt issuances 300 Redemption of notes (24) Deferred issuance costs (4) (4) Term loan payments (6) Other financing activities (1) (2) Net change in debt 281 (76) Repurchase of common stock (241) (71) CASH PROVIDED BY (USED FOR) FINANCING ACTIVITIES $ 40 $ (147) Cash provided by financing activities was $40 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020 compared to cash used for financing activities of $147 million in the same period of fiscal year 2019. The increase in cash provided by financing activities is primarily related to the net proceeds from the offering of the 2025 Notes, offset by share repurchases that occurred in the first half of fiscal year 2020. Liquidity Our outstanding debt, net of discounts and unamortized debt issuance costs, where applicable, is summarized in the table below (in millions). June 30, 2020 September 30, 2019 Fixed-rate debt securities $ 740 $ 444 Fixed-rate convertible notes 343 342 Unamortized discount on convertible notes (30) (34) Term loan 168 175 Other borrowings 6 16 Total debt $ 1,227 $ 943 Overview Our principal operating and capital requirements are for working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, debt service requirements, funding of pension and retiree medical costs and restructuring and product development programs. We expect fiscal year 2020 capital expenditures for our business segments to be approximately $85 million. We generally fund our operating and capital needs with cash on hand, cash flows from operations, our various accounts receivable securitization and factoring arrangements and availability under our revolving credit facility. Cash in excess of local operating needs is generally used to reduce amounts outstanding, if any, under our revolving credit facility or U.S. accounts receivable securitization program. Our ability to access additional capital in the long term will depend on availability of capital markets and pricing on commercially reasonable terms, as well as our credit profile at the time we are seeking funds. We continuously evaluate our capital structure to ensure the most appropriate and optimal structure and may, from time to time, retire, repurchase, exchange or redeem outstanding indebtedness or common equity, issue new equity or debt securities or enter into new lending arrangements if conditions warrant. In December 2017, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), registering an indeterminate amount of debt and/or equity securities that we may offer in one or more offerings on terms to be determined at the time of sale. We believe our current financing arrangements provide us with the financial flexibility required to maintain our operations during the uncertain times of the COVID-19 pandemic and fund future growth, including actions required to improve our 48 MERITOR, INC. market share and further diversify our global operations, through the term of our revolving credit facility, which matures in June 2024. Sources of liquidity as of June 30, 2020, in addition to cash on hand, are as follows (in millions): Total Facility Size Utilized as of 6/30/2020 Readily Available as of 6/30/2020 Current Expiration On-balance sheet arrangements: Revolving credit facility (1) $ 625 $ $ 625 June 2024 (1) Committed U.S. accounts receivable securitization (2) 95 65 December 2022 Total on-balance sheet arrangements $ 720 $ $ 690 Off-balance sheet arrangements: (2) Committed Swedish factoring facility (3)(4) $ 174 $ 73 $ March 2024 Committed U.S. factoring facility (3) 75 26 February 2023 Uncommitted U.K. factoring facility 28 3 February 2022 Uncommitted Italy factoring facility 34 13 June 2022 Other uncommitted factoring facilities (5) N/A 11 N/A N/A Total off-balance sheet arrangements $ 311 $ 126 $ Total available sources $ 1,031 $ 126 $ 690 (1) The availability under the revolving credit facility is subject to a priority debt-to-EBITDA ratio covenant. The facility will expire in November 2023 if the outstanding amount of the 6.25 percent notes due 2024 is greater than $75 million at that time. (2) Availability subject to adequate eligible accounts receivable available for sale. (3) Actual amounts may exceed the bank's commitment at the bank's discretion. (4) The facility is backed by a 364-day liquidity commitment from Nordea Bank which extends through June 22, 2021. (5) There is no explicit facility size under the agreement, but the counterparty approves the purchase of receivable tranches at its discretion. Cash and Liquidity Needs At June 30, 2020, we had $280 million in cash and cash equivalents, of which $13 million was held in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. that, if repatriated, could result in withholding taxes. We plan to repatriate approximately $10 million of this cash, of which no withholding taxes are expected to be owed. In addition, we plan to utilize ongoing cash flow from domestic operations and external borrowings, to meet our liquidity needs in the U.S. Our availability under the revolving credit facility is subject to a priority debt-to-EBITDA ratio covenant, as defined in the credit agreement, which may limit our borrowings under such agreement as of each quarter end. As long as we are in compliance with this covenant as of the quarter end, we have full availability under the revolving credit facility every other day during the quarter. Our future liquidity is subject to a number of factors, including access to adequate funding under our revolving credit facility, access to other borrowing arrangements such as factoring or securitization facilities, vehicle production schedules and customer demand. Even taking into account these and other factors, management expects to have sufficient liquidity to fund our operating requirements through the term of our revolving credit facility. At June 30, 2020, we were in compliance with the priority debt to EBITDA ratio covenant with a ratio of approximately 0.36x, which includes the income recognized related to the termination of the WABCO distribution arrangement. Equity Repurchase Authorization On November 7, 2019, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $325 million of the company's common stock, which was an increase from the prior $250 million authorization approved on July 26, 2019. Repurchases can be made from time to time through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, subject to compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and the companys debt covenants. During fiscal year 2019, the company repurchased 1.3 million shares of common stock for $25 million (including commission costs) pursuant to this common stock repurchase authorization. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, the company repurchased 4.9 million shares of common stock for $100 million (including commission costs) pursuant to this authorization. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2020, the company repurchased 5.6 million shares of common stock for $141 million (including commission costs) pursuant to this authorization. As of June 30, 2020, the amount remaining available for repurchases under this common stock repurchase authorization was $59 million. On March 25, 2020, we suspended activity under our share repurchase program as a result of uncertainties in the global economy due to the COVID-19 pandemic. On November 2, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $200 million of our common stock from time to time through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, subject to compliance with legal 49 MERITOR, INC. and regulatory requirements and our debt covenants. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we repurchased 3.0 million shares of common stock for $50 million (including commission costs) pursuant to this repurchase authorization. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, we repurchased 1.0 million shares of common stock for $21 million (including commission costs) pursuant to this authorization. Debt Repurchase Authorization On November 2, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $100 million aggregate principal amount of any of our debt securities (including convertible debt securities) from time to time through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, subject to compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and our debt covenants. The amount remaining available for repurchases under this repurchase authorization was $76 million as of June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2019. Revolving Credit Facility The revolving credit facility is discussed in Note 17 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I of this Quarterly Report. Issuance of 2025 Notes On June 8, 2020, we completed the offering and sale of $300 million aggregate principal amount of the companys 2025 Notes to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and to non-U.S. persons in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulations S under the Securities Act, in a private placement, exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. The 2025 Notes are discussed in Note 17 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I of this Quarterly Report. Other Refer to Note 17 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I of this Quarterly Report. Credit Ratings At July 27, 2020, our Standard & Poors corporate credit rating and senior unsecured credit rating were BB and BB- , r espectively, and our Moodys Investors Service corporate credit rating and senior unsecured credit rating were Ba3 and B1, respectively. Any lowering of our credit ratings could increase our cost of future borrowings and could reduce our access to capital markets and result in lower trading prices for our securities. Subsidiary Guarantees of Debt Certain of the company's 100% owned subsidiaries, as defined in the credit agreement (collectively, the "Guarantors") irrevocably and unconditionally guarantee amounts outstanding under the senior secured revolving credit facility on a joint and several basis. Similar subsidiary guarantees are provided for the benefit of the holders of the notes outstanding under the company's indentures. The notes are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by each of the companys subsidiaries from time to time guaranteeing its senior secured credit facility, as it may be amended, extended, replaced or refinanced, or any subsequent credit facility. The guarantees remain in effect until the earlier to occur of payment in full of the notes or termination or release of the applicable corresponding guarantee under the companys senior secured credit facility, as it may be amended, extended, replaced or refinanced, or any subsequent credit facility. The guarantees rank equally with existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness of the Guarantors and are effectively subordinated to all of the existing and future secured indebtedness of the Guarantors, to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. The following represents summarized financial information, in millions, of Meritor Inc (Parent) and the Guarantors (collectively, the Combined Entities). The information has been prepared on a combined basis and excludes any investments of the Parent or Guarantors in non-guarantor subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and amounts between the Combined Entities have been eliminated. 50 MERITOR, INC. Statement of Operations Information Nine Months ended June 30, 2020 Year ended September 30, 2019 Net Sales $ 1,409 $ 2,731 Gross profit 157 368 Net income from continuing operations 389 708 Net income 390 709 Net income attributable to Meritor, Inc. 390 709 Balance Sheet Information June 30, 2020 September 30, 2019 Current Assets $ 568 $ 447 Non-current Assets 1,154 1,178 Current Liabilities 386 559 Non-current Liabilities 1,792 1,376 Redeemable Preferred Stock Noncontrolling Interest At June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2019, amounts owed by the Combined Entities to non-guarantor entities totaled approximately $105 million and $13 million, respectively, and amounts owed to the Combined Entities from non-guarantor entities totaled approximately $153 million and $202 million, respectively. For the nine months ended June 30, 2020, intercompany sales from the Combined Entities to non-guarantor subsidiaries was $60 million. For the nine months ended June 30, 2020, intercompany sales from non-guarantor subsidiaries to the Combined Entities was $75 million. For the year ended September 30, 2019, intercompany sales from the Combined Entities to non-guarantor subsidiaries was $110 million. For the year ended September 30, 2019, intercompany sales from non-guarantor subsidiaries to the Combined Entities was $201 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Accounts Receivable Factoring Arrangements We participate in accounts receivable factoring programs with a total amount utilized at June 30, 2020 of $126 million, of which $99 million was attributable to committed factoring facilities involving the sale of AB Volvo accounts receivables. The remaining amount of $27 million was related to factoring by certain of our European subsidiaries under uncommitted factoring facilities with financial institutions. The receivables under all of these programs are sold at face value and are excluded from the consolidated balance sheet. Total facility size, utilized amounts, readily available amounts and expiration dates for each of these programs are shown in the table above under Liquidity . The Swedish facility is backed by a 364-day liquidity commitment from Nordea Bank, which was renewed through June 22, 2021. Commitments under all of our factoring facilities are subject to standard terms and conditions for these types of arrangements (including, in the case of the U.K. and Italy commitments, a sole discretion clause whereby the bank retains the right to not purchase receivables, which has not been invoked since the inception of the respective programs). Letter of Credit Facilities On February 21, 2014, we entered into an arrangement to amend and restate the letter of credit facility with Citicorp USA, Inc., as administrative agent and issuing bank, and the other lenders party thereto. Under the terms of this amended credit agreement, which expired in March 2019, we had the right to obtain the issuance, renewal, extension and increase of letters of credit up to an aggregate availability of $25 million. This facility contained covenants and events of default generally similar to those existing in our public debt indentures. On March 20, 2019, we allowed this facility to expire. The letters of credit previously provided under this facility were replaced with letters of credit issued under our U.S. accounts receivable securitization facility with PNC Bank. There were $8 million of letters of credit outstanding through other letter of credit facilities as of both June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2019. Contingencies Contingencies related to environmental, asbestos and other matters are discussed in Note 20 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I of this Quarterly Report. 51 Critical Accounting Policies Our significant accounting policies are consistent with those described in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 (the "2019 Form 10-K"). Our critical accounting estimates are consistent with those described in Item 7 of our 2019 Form 10-K. New Accounting Pronouncements New Accounting Pronouncements are discussed in Note 3 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I of this Quarterly Report.