MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 (2024 Form 10-K). This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements based upon current beliefs, plans and expectations that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, such as statements regarding our plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and projections. Our actual results and the timing of selected events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including those set forth under the heading Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should carefully read the Risk Factors section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to gain an understanding of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements. Please also see the section under the heading Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in the 2024 Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this report to we, us, our, the Company, and Arteris refer to Arteris, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Overview We are a leading provider of semiconductor system IP, including interconnect and other intellectual property, (collectively, System IP) technology. Our System IP technology manages the on-chip communications and IP block deployments in System-on-Chip (SoC) semiconductors and systems of chiplets. Our leading proprietary System IP products achieve this by connecting client IP blocks such as processors, memories, artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML) accelerators, graphics subsystems, safety and security, and other input/output subsystems (I/Os) via multiple Networks-on-Chips (NoCs) in order for our customers to experience faster SoC targeting, as well as, more efficient, and lower cost solutions. Growth for our solutions is being driven by growing SoC sophistication and associated complexity, now extending into disaggregation of SoCs into systems which implement the communication protocol aspects and partner with industry leading providers like Synopsys, Cadence, Alphawave and others to connect to their die-to-die interfaces. The addition of more processors, channels of memory access, machine learning sections, additional I/Os interface standards, and other subsystems within SoCs is driving the need for more advanced System IP, including NoC interconnect IPs. The growth in the numbers of these connected on-chip subsystems places an increasing premium on the interconnect IP capability to move data inside complex SoCs. We believe this increase in SoC complexity has created a significant opportunity for sophisticated System IP products that incorporate NoC interconnect IP, SoC Integration Automation software (formerly IP deployment software) and NoC interface IP (consisting of peripheral data transport IP and control plane networks connected to NoC interconnect IPs). Moreover, our technology can also provide more cost-effective solutions and reduce the risks of building and maintaining in-house NoC teams, which we believe has positively contributed to our market segment share growth. Our SoC Integration Automation software solutions, which were significantly enhanced by our acquisition of Magillem Design Services S.A. (Magillem) in 2020, complement our interconnect IP solutions by helping to automate not only the customer configuration of its NoC interconnect but also the process of integrating and assembling all of the customers IP blocks into an SoC. Products incorporating our IP are used to carry most of the important data inside complex SoCs for sophisticated applications, including automotive, enterprise computing, communications, consumer electronics, and industrial markets. As of March 31, 2025, we had 270 full-time employees and offices in eleven locations in the United States, France, China, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and Poland. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, we generated revenue of $16.5 million, net loss of $8.1 million, and net loss per share, basic and diluted of $0.20. As of March 31, 2025, we had Annual Contract Value (as defined below) and Annual Contract Value plus royalties of $62.1 million and $66.8 million, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we had 17 Confirmed Design Starts (as defined below). 20 Table of Contents Factors Affecting Our Business We believe that the growth of our business and our future success are dependent upon many factors including those described under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report, in addition to those described below. While each of these factors presents significant opportunities for us, these factors also pose challenges that we must successfully address in order to sustain the growth of our business and enhance our results of operations. License Agreements with New and Existing Customers Our ability to generate revenue from new license agreements, and the timing of such revenue, is subject to a number of factors, risks and contingencies. For new products, the time from initial development until we generate license revenue can be lengthy, typically between one and three years. In addition, because the selection process by our customers is typically lengthy and market requirements and alternative solutions available to customers for IP-based products change rapidly, we may be required to incur significant research and development expenditures in pursuit of new products over extended, multiyear periods of time with no assurance that our solutions will be successfully developed or ultimately selected by our customers. While we make efforts to observe market demand and market need trends, we cannot be certain that our investment in developing and testing new products will generate an adequate rate of return in the form of fees, royalties or other revenues, or any revenues. Moreover, the customer acquisition process has a typical duration of six to nine months; following this, a customers chip design cycle is typically between one to three years and may be delayed due to factors beyond our control, which may result in our customers product not reaching the market until long after we entered into a contract with such customer. Customers typically start shipping their products using our interconnect IP solutions between one to five years following completion of their product design, known as mass production, at which point we start to receive royalties; this typically lasts for up to seven years depending on the particular market. Any significant delay in the ramp-up of volume production of the customers products into which our product is designed could adversely affect our business due to delayed or significantly reduced revenues. Further, because the average selling prices of our products may decline over time, we consider new license agreements and new product launches to be critical to our future success and anticipate that for our newer products, we are and will remain highly dependent on market demand timing and revenue from new license agreements. End Customer Product Demand and Market Conditions Demand for our interconnect IP solutions and associated royalty revenue is highly dependent on market conditions in the end markets in which our customers operate. These end markets, which include the automotive, enterprise computing, communications, artificial intelligence and machine learning, consumer electronics, and industrial markets, are subject to a number of factors including end-product acceptance and sales, competitive pressures, supply chain issues and general market conditions. For example, our revenue has been supported by the increased need for more complex SoCs to enable sophisticated automated driving. If the demand in this market continues to grow, we anticipate it will continue to have a positive impact on our revenue. In contrast, if general market conditions deteriorate or other factors occur, such as supply chain issues and global trade restrictions resulting in fewer semiconductors utilizing our IP solutions being available for sale, our revenue would be adversely affected. Further, royalty revenue can be significantly impacted period to period due to changing trends in consumer spending, especially as it relates to the automotive market. Terms of our Agreements with Customers Our revenue from period to period can be impacted by the terms of the agreements we enter into with our customers. As a result of how these contracts are structured and the revenue is recognized, our revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2025 may not be comparable to future periods if we do not enter into similar contractual agreements. Further, a meaningful percentage of our revenue is generated through royalty payments. Because the time between a new license agreement win and the customers end product being sold can be substantial, with sales of the end product being subject to a number of factors outside our control, our revenue from royalties is difficult to predict. As a result of the foregoing, revenue may fluctuate significantly from period to period and any increase or decrease in such revenue may not be indicative of future period-to-period increases or decreases. 21 Table of Contents Technological Development and Market Growth We believe our growth has been and will continue to be driven by technology trends in our end markets. For example, the requirements of smaller die size, lower power consumption, a higher frequency of operation and management of critical net latency in a timely and cost-effective manner for on-chip processing in the automotive, enterprise computing, communications, consumer electronics, and industrial markets have resulted in increased SoC design complexity for chips used in these markets. This trend in turn has created increased demand for in-licensing commercial semiconductor design IP, which in turn has positively impacted our revenue and growth. In order to address technological developments such as the above and expand our offerings, we have invested significantly in our research and development efforts. These investments, which continue to include growth in engineering headcount, have resulted in substantially increased research and development expenses in recent periods. As we continue to invest in our technology and new product design efforts, we anticipate research and development expense will continue to increase on an absolute basis and as a percentage of revenue in the near term. In the medium to longer term, however, while we expect to increase our research and development expense on an absolute basis, we expect this expense to reduce as a percentage of revenue. We will continue to evaluate growth opportunities through acquisitions of other businesses. Impact of Operating Globally We believe our products global footprint provides us with the opportunity to enter new markets and accelerate our growth. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, 60.1% of our revenue was derived from sales to customers outside of the United States and 25.1% of our revenue was derived from customers located in China, respectively. For 2024, 62.3% of our revenue was derived from sales to customers outside of the United States and 29.2% of our revenue was derived from customers located in China. While we believe operating internationally has beneficially impacted our results of operations, we are subject to inherent risks attributed to operating in a global economy. Further, our international operations have been, and may in the future continue to be, subject to restrictive government regulations. For example, U.S. export regulations, including regulations announced on October 7, 2022 (as further amended), that impose broad end-use and other restrictions on doing business with certain customers and facilities in China that develop or produce semiconductor chips or manufacturing equipment, may limit or adversely impact our ability to license or support our products to entities in or doing business with certain advanced AI or supercomputer design companies, foundries and manufacturers of assemblies and components in China. As a result of these restrictions, our customers may experience changes to or delays in their design projects, and we may face challenges to maintain our revenue and/or our revenue may decrease. Further, our global footprint and operations expose us to currency exchange rate movements given we have significant operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. If the volume of our international operations remains the same or increases and foreign currency exchange rates changes, especially the Euro, the impact to our consolidated statements of operations could be significant and may affect the comparability of operating results from period to period. Cyclical Nature of the Semiconductor Industry The semiconductor industry in which our customers operate is highly cyclical and is characterized by increasingly rapid technological change, product obsolescence, competitive pricing pressures, evolving standards, short product life cycles, and fluctuations in product supply and demand. New technology may result in sudden changes in system designs or platform changes that may render some of our IP solutions obsolete and require us to devote significant research and development resources to compete effectively. Periods of rapid growth and capacity expansion are occasionally followed by significant market corrections in which our customers sales decline, inventories accumulate, and facilities go underutilized. During an expansion cycle, we may increase research and development hiring to add to our product offerings or spend more on sales and marketing to acquire new customers. During periods of slower growth or industry contractions, our sales generally suffer due to a decrease in customers Confirmed Design Starts or in sales of our customers products. 22 Table of Contents Key Performance Indicators We use the following key performance indicators to analyze our business performance and financial forecasts and to develop strategic plans, which we believe provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our results of operations in the same manner as our management team. These key performance indicators are presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), and may differ from similarly titled metrics or measures used by other companies, securities analysts, or investors. Annual Contract Value We define Annual Contract Value (ACV) for an individual customer agreement as the total fixed fees under the agreement divided by the number of years in the agreement term. Our total ACV is the aggregate ACVs for all our customers as measured at a given point in time. Total fixed fees include licensing, support and maintenance and other fixed fees under IP licensing or software licensing agreements but exclude variable revenue derived from licensing agreements with customers, particularly royalties. ACV was $62.1 million and $53.5 million as of March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. In addition, total ACV plus royalties was $66.8 million and $58.2 million as of March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. ACV plus royalties is calculated based on ACV and the trailing-twelve-months variable royalties and other revenue. We monitor ACV to measure our success and believe the increase in the number shows our progress in expanding our customers adoption of our platform. We believe ACV provides investors with useful information to assess the strength and trajectory of our business as growth demonstrates the expansion of customer adoption of our platform. ACV fluctuates due to a number of factors, including the timing, duration and dollar amount of customer contracts. Confirmed Design Starts We define Confirmed Design Starts as when customers confirm their commencement of new semiconductor designs using our interconnect IP and notify us. Confirmed Design Starts is a metric management uses to assess the activity level of our customers in terms of the number of new semiconductor designs that are started using our interconnect IP in a given period. Our interconnect IP and NoC interface IP customer base contributed to a total of 17 and 21 design starts during the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We believe that the number of Confirmed Design Starts is an important indicator of the growth of our business and future royalty revenue trends. Remaining Performance Obligations We define Remaining Performance Obligations (RPO) as the amount of contracted future revenue that has not yet been recognized, including deferred revenue, billed and unbilled cancelable and non-cancelable contracted amounts. The RPO amount is intended to provide visibility into future revenue streams. We expect RPO to fluctuate up or down from period to period for several reasons, including variations in amounts, timing, and duration of customer contracts, as well as the timing of billing cycles for each contract. Our RPO was $88.9 million and $74.7 million as of March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Active Customers We previously provided active customers for the period as a key performance indicator. As we strategically shift our focus to increased sales volume from existing larger customers, rather than number of new customers added in the period, we no longer consider active customers as a key metric to evaluate our business. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue: Our revenue is primarily derived from licensing intellectual property, licensing software, support and maintenance services, professional services, training services, and royalties. Our agreements often include other service elements including training and professional services which were immaterial for both the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024. 23 Table of Contents Our interconnect solutions product arrangements provide customers the right to software licenses, services, and support and maintenance. We enter into licensing arrangements with customers that typically range from two to three years and generally consist of delivery of a design license that grants the customer the right to use the IP to design a contractually defined number of products, a right to access the benefits of its proprietary software tool (RTL), and support and maintenance services that provide the customer a significant benefit from ongoing access to Corporate Application Engineers (CAE) and Field Application Engineers (FAE) (collectively, Application Engineer Support Services) to perform certain verifications including benchmark performance, simulations and ultimately, through the RTL, instantiate designs into silicon over the design term. Application Engineer Support Services are integral and fundamental to the customers ability to derive its intended benefit from the IP. Besides Application Engineer Support Services, support and maintenance services also consist of a stand-ready obligation to provide technical support and software updates over the support term. Generally, the first year of technical support and software updates are bundled with and into the license fee with a customer option to renew additional years of support throughout the license term. However, we may continue to provide technical support and software updates throughout the license term even if the customer does not renew these services in subsequent years, making the license term and support and maintenance term co-terminus. Revenues that are derived from the sale of a licensees products that incorporate our IP are classified as royalty revenues. Royalty revenues are recognized during the quarter in which the sale of the product incorporating the IP occurs. Royalties are calculated either as a percentage of the revenues received by a licensees sale of products incorporating the IP or on a per unit basis, as specified in the agreements with the licensees. For the majority of our royalty revenues, we receive the actual sales data from our customers after the quarter ends and account for it as unbilled receivables. When we do not receive actual sales data from the customer prior to the finalization of our financial statements, royalty revenues are recognized based on our estimation of the customers sales during the quarter. Our SoC Integration Automation software products and CSRCompiler product arrangements provide customers with the right to software licenses, software updates and technical support. The software licenses are time-based licenses with terms generally ranging from one to three years. These arrangements generally have two distinct performance obligations that consist of transferring the licensed software and the support and maintenance service. Support and maintenance services consist of a stand-ready obligation to provide technical support and software updates over the support term. Majority of our SoC Integration Automation software solutions contracts include termination rights that allow the customer to cancel and receive a pro-rata refund on support and maintenance services at the end of each month of the contract period, which results in a ratable recognition of the related license revenue over the contract term. Cost of revenue: Cost of revenue relates to costs associated with our licensing agreements and support and maintenance, including applicable FAE personnel-related costs such as stock-based compensation, travel, amortization of developed technology acquired intangibles and allocated overhead. We expect cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue to modestly decline over time due to productivity improvements of our FAE processes. Allocation of Overhead Costs: Overhead costs that are not substantially dedicated for use by a specific functional group are allocated based on headcount. Such costs include costs associated with office facilities, depreciation of property and equipment, certain support function personnel costs and other expenses. Research and development (R&D) expenses: R&D expenses consist primarily of salaries and associated personnel-related costs, facilities expenses associated with research and development activities, third-party project-related expenses connected with the development of our intellectual property which are expensed as incurred, and stock-based compensation expense and other allocated costs. We expect R&D expenses to increase in absolute terms and as a percentage of revenue in the short term and to continue to increase in absolute terms in the medium to long term but decrease as a percentage of revenue as certain new products are launched. Sales and marketing (S&M) expenses:S&M expenses consist primarily of salaries, commissions, travel and other costs associated with S&M activities, as well as advertising, trade show participation, public relations, and other marketing costs, stock-based compensation expenses and other allocated costs. We expect S&M expenses to increase in absolute terms but decrease as a percentage of revenue due to productivity improvements of our sales processes. 24 Table of Contents General and administrative (G&A) expenses:G&A expenses consist primarily of salaries for management and administrative employees, depreciation, insurance costs, accounting, legal and consulting fees, other professional service fees, expenses related to the development of corporate initiatives and facilities expenses associated with G&A activities and stock-based compensation expense, fees for directors and other allocated costs. We incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations, and increased expenses for additional G&A personnel, directors and officers insurance, investor relations, and professional services. We expect G&A expenses to increase as our business grows. In addition, we expect G&A expenses as a percentage of revenue to vary from period to period but generally decrease over the long term. Interest expense: Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense on our vendor financing arrangements. Other income (expense), net: Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments, gains and losses from foreign currency exchange, gain on deconsolidation of subsidiary, realized gains and losses from available-for-sale investments as well as deferred income. Loss from equity method investment: Loss from equity method investment consists of our proportionate share of net losses from our equity method investee. Provision for income taxes: Our income tax provision consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business and includes foreign non-recoverable withholding taxes. We have a full valuation allowance against our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets as the realization of the full amount of these deferred tax assets is uncertain, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance until it becomes more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes our GAAP results of operations for the periods presented. The results below are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for future periods. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Total revenue $ 16,532 $ 12,947 Cost of revenue (1) 1,526 1,468 Gross profit 15,006 11,479 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 11,862 10,835 Sales and marketing (1) 6,529 5,456 General and administrative (1) 4,323 4,322 Total operating expenses 22,714 20,613 Loss from operations (7,708) (9,134) Interest expense (48) (76) Other income (expense), net 718 936 Loss before income taxes and loss from equity method investment (7,038) (8,274) Loss from equity method investment, net of tax 815 759 Provision for income taxes 268 370 Net loss $ (8,121) $ (9,403) (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 205 $ 189 Research and development 1,973 1,608 Sales and marketing 969 723 General and administrative 1,166 1,137 Total stock-based compensation $ 4,313 $ 3,657 26 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our results of operations as a percentage of total revenue for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (as a percentage of total revenue) Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 9 11 Gross profit 91 89 Operating expenses: Research and development 72 84 Sales and marketing 39 42 General and administrative 26 33 Total operating expenses 137 159 Loss from operations (46) (70) Interest expense (1) Other income (expense), net 4 7 Loss before income taxes and loss from equity method investment (42) (64) Loss from equity method investment, net of tax 5 6 Provision for income taxes 2 3 Net loss (49) % (73) % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Licensing, support and maintenance $ 15,335 $ 11,739 $ 3,596 31 % Variable royalties 1,167 818 349 43 % Other 30 390 (360) (92) % Total $ 16,532 $ 12,947 $ 3,585 28 % Revenue from licensing, support and maintenance increased $3.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was primarily due to new license arrangements with existing customers. Growth in our variable royalty revenue was primarily due to an increase in product sales of certain existing customers. Other revenue decreased primarily due to revenue from professional services that was recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2024, which did not repeat during the three months ended March 31, 2025. Cost of revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 1,526 $ 1,468 $ 58 4 % Cost of revenue remained relatively flat for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. 27 Table of Contents Operating expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 11,862 $ 10,835 $ 1,027 9 % Sales and marketing 6,529 5,456 1,073 20 % General and administrative 4,323 4,322 1 % Total operating expenses $ 22,714 $ 20,613 $ 2,101 10 % Research and development expenses R&D expenses increased, $1.0 million, or 9%, to $11.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $10.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase in R&D expenses was due to higher employee-related costs of $0.7 million, including stock-based compensation expense. We also received lower grants of $0.2 million by our subsidiary in France for R&D projects and incurred higher professional fees of $0.1 million. Sales and marketing expenses S&M expenses increased $1.1 million or 20%, to $6.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $5.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase in S&M expenses was primarily due to higher employee-related costs of $0.8 million mainly driven by increased headcount to support growth of our business, including stock-based compensation expense. General and administrative expenses G&A expenses remained relatively flat for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Interest expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest expense $ (48) $ (76) $ 28 (37) % Interest expense remained relatively flat for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Other income (expense), net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ 718 $ 936 $ (218) (23) % Other income (expense), net decreased $0.2 million, or 23%, to $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease in interest and other income (expense), net was primarily related to foreign currency exchange, as well as lower interest rates on cash balances and lower interest income earned on our available-for-sale investments. 28 Table of Contents Loss from equity method investment Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Loss from equity method investment $ 815 $ 759 $ 56 7 % Loss from equity method investment remained relatively flat for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Such losses are expected to continue in the near future. Provision for income taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 268 $ 370 $ (102) (28) % The provision for income taxes was $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease in our income tax expense was due to a change in the forecasted geographic mix of worldwide earnings which are taxed at different statutory tax rates, the impact of losses in jurisdictions which have full valuation allowances, and changes in current year foreign withholding taxes. Foreign withholding taxes are generally assessed on gross revenue generated, rather than pre-tax income, in certain countries in which the Company does not file an income tax return. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed operations primarily from payments received from our customers, the net proceeds from the sale of our common stock in the IPO as well as the net proceeds from the private issuance of our convertible preferred stock and common stock. As of March 31, 2025, we had $42.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of which $2.0 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. In addition, as of March 31, 2025, we also had $12.8 million in long-term investments. We believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments and cash provided by sales of our products will be sufficient to meet our expected working capital needs, capital expenditures, financial commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations for at least the next 12 months. If these resources are not sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may be required to seek additional financing. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may contain covenants that significantly restrict our operations or our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future. Any additional financing that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us or our existing stockholders, or at all. See Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryOur ability to raise capital in the future may be limited and could prevent us from executing our growth strategy for additional information. Cash Flows The following table summarizes changes in our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,860 $ 477 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (121) $ 11,902 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (52) $ 44 29 Table of Contents Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from period to period depending on a variety of factors including the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities primarily relate to payroll-related costs, payments for professional services and obligations under our property leases. Our primary source of cash inflows is receipts from our customers. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set forth in the contracts. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 million, primarily due to our net loss of $8.1 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $5.7 million and $5.2 million of changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation of $4.3 million, depreciation and amortization of $0.8 million and loss from our equity method investment of $0.8 million, partially offset by amortization of deferred income of $0.3 million and net accretion of discounts on available-for-sale securities of $0.1 million. The drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $10.3 million decrease in accounts receivable, partially offset by a $2.0 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $1.9 million decrease in deferred revenue, a $0.9 million increase in prepaid expense and other assets and a $0.3 million decrease in accounts payable. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was $0.5 million, primarily due to our net loss of $9.4 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $4.8 million and $5.1 million of changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation of $3.7 million, loss from our equity method investment of $0.8 million and depreciation and amortization of $0.8 million, partially offset by amortization of deferred income of $0.3 million and net accretion of discounts on available-for-sale securities of $0.2 million. The drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $0.3 million increase in accounts receivable, partially offset by a $3.4 million increase in deferred revenue, a $0.9 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $0.5 million increase in accounts payable and a $0.5 million decrease in prepaid expense and other current assets. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $0.1 million, primarily attributable to purchases of available-for-sale securities and property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from maturities of available-for-sale securities and certificate of deposit. Net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $11.9 million, primarily attributable to proceeds from maturities of available-for-sale securities and certificate of deposit, partially offset by purchases of available-for-sale securities and property and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $0.1 million, primarily attributable to principal payments under vendor financing arrangements, partially offset by proceeds from exercise of stock options. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was less than $0.1 million, primarily attributable to proceeds from exercise of stock options, primarily offset by principal payments under vendor financing arrangements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including entities sometimes referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 30 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our 2024 Form 10-K, other than those discussed in Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements For more information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. JOBS Act We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This provision allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of some accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act for the adoption of certain accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. See Note 2, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included on our 2024 Form 10-K. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates.