MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 included in the 2021 Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements based upon current beliefs, plans and expectations that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, such as statements regarding our plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and projections. Our actual results and the timing of selected events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including those set forth under the heading Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Please also see the section under the heading Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in the 2021 Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this report to we, us, our, the Company, and Arteris refer to Arteris, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Overview We are a leading provider of System IP, including interconnect and other intellectual property, (collectively, IP) technology that connects client IP blocks such as processors, memories, artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML) accelerators, graphics subsystems, safety and security and other input/output (I/Os) subsystems via multiple Network-on-Chips (NoCs) in order for our customers to create System-on-Chips (NoC) (SoCs) semiconductors faster, better, and a lower cost. Our products enable our customers to deliver increasingly complex SoCs that not only process data but are also able to make decisions. Growth in the total addressable market for our solutions is being driven by the addition of more processors, channels of memory access, machine learning sections, chiplets, additional I/Os interface standards and other subsystems within SoCs. The growth in the numbers of these connected on-chip subsystems place an increasing premium on the interconnect IP capability to move data inside complex SoCs. We believe this increase in SoC complexity is creating a significant opportunity for sophisticated SoC system IP solutions which incorporate NoC interconnect IP, IP deployment software and NoC interface IP (consisting of peripheral data transport IP and control plane networks connected to NoC interconnect IPs). Our IP deployment solutions, which were significantly enhanced by our acquisition of Magillem Design Services S.A. (Magillem) in 2020, complement our interconnect IP solutions by helping to automate not only the customer configuration of its NoC interconnect but also the process of integrating and assembling all of the customers IP blocks into an SoC. Products incorporating our IP are used to carry most of the important data inside complex SoCs for sophisticated applications, including automated driving, AI/ML, 5G and wireless communications, data centers, and consumer electronics. As of September 30, 2022, we had 234 full-time employees and offices in eight locations in the United States, France, China, South Korea and Japan. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, we generated revenue of $12.6 million and $39.2 million, respectively, net loss of $7.7 million and $20.2 million respectively, and net loss per share, basic and diluted of $0.23 and $0.63, respectively. As of September 30, 2022, we had Annual Contract Value (as defined below) of $50.2 million. During the three months ended September 30, 2022, we added 10 Active Customers (as defined below) and our customers had 21 Confirmed Design Starts (as defined below). Factors Affecting Our Business We believe that the growth of our business and our future success are dependent upon many factors including those described under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report, in addition to those described below. While each of these factors presents significant opportunities for us, these factors also pose challenges that we must successfully address in order to sustain the growth of our business and enhance our results of operations. 23 Table of Contents License Agreements with New and Existing Customers Our ability to generate revenue from new license agreements, and the timing of such revenue, is subject to a number of factors, risks and contingencies. For new products, the time from initial development until we generate license revenue can be lengthy, typically between one and three years. In addition, because the selection process by our customers is typically lengthy and market requirements and alternative solutions available to customers for IP-based products change rapidly, we may be required to incur significant research and development expenditures in pursuit of new products over extended, multiyear periods of time with no assurance that our solutions will be successfully developed or ultimately selected by our customers. While we make efforts to observe market demand and market need trends, we cannot be certain that our investment in developing and testing new products will generate an adequate rate of return in the form of fees, royalties or other revenues, or any revenues. Moreover, the customer acquisition process has a typical duration of six to nine months; following this, a customers chip design cycle is typically between one to three years and may be delayed due to factors beyond our control, which may result in our customers product not reaching the market until long after we entered into a contract with such customer. Customers typically start shipping their products containing our interconnect IP solutions between one to five years following completion of their product design, known as mass production, at which point we start to receive royalties; this lasts for up to seven years depending on the market segment. Any significant delay in the ramp-up of volume production of the customers products into which our product is designed could adversely affect our business due to delayed or significantly reduced revenues. Further, because the average selling prices (ASPs) of our products may decline over time, we consider new license agreements and new product launches to be critical to our future success and anticipate that for our newer products, we are and will remain highly dependent on market demand timing and revenue from new license agreements. End Customer Product Demand and Market Conditions Demand for our interconnect IP solutions and associated royalty revenue is highly dependent on market conditions in the end markets in which our customers operate. These end markets, which include the automotive, AI/ML, 5G communications, data centers and consumer electronics sectors, are subject to a number of factors including end-product acceptance and sales, competitive pressures, supply chain issues and general market conditions. For example, our revenue has been supported by the increased need for more complex SoCs to enable sophisticated automated driving. If the demand in this market continues to grow, we anticipate it will continue to have a positive impact on our revenue. In contrast, if general market conditions deteriorate or other factors occur such as supply chain issues resulting in fewer semiconductors utilizing our IP solutions being available for sale, our revenue would be adversely affected. Terms of our Agreements with Customers Our revenue from period to period can be impacted by the terms of the agreements we enter into with our customers. For example, in recent periods we have structured certain agreements with customers that include substantial up front licensing payments. As a result of how these contracts are structured and the revenue is recognized, our revenue in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 may not be comparable to future periods if we do not enter into similar contractual agreements. Further, a meaningful percentage of our revenue is generated through royalty payments. Because the time between a new license agreement win and the customers end product being sold can be substantial, with sales of the end product being subject to a number of factors outside our control, our revenue from royalties is difficult to predict. As a result of the foregoing, revenue may fluctuate significantly from period to period and any increase or decrease in such revenue may not be indicative of future period-to-period increases or decreases. Technological Development and Market Growth We believe our growth has been and will continue to be driven by technology trends in our end markets. For example, the requirements of smaller die size, lower power consumption, a higher frequency of operation and management of critical net latency in a timely and cost-effective manner for on-chip processing in the automotive, AI/ML, 5G and wireless communications, data center and consumer electronic markets has resulted in increased SoC design complexity for chips used in these markets. This trend in turn has created increased demand for in-licensing commercial semiconductor design IP, which in turn has positively impacted our revenue and growth. 24 Table of Contents In order to address technological developments such as the above and expand our offerings, we have invested significantly in our research and development efforts. These investments, which included growth in engineering headcount, have resulted in substantially increased research and development expenses in recent periods. As we continue to invest in our technology and new product design efforts, we anticipate research and development expense will increase on an absolute basis and as a percentage of revenue in the near term. In the medium to longer term, however, while we expect to increase our research and development expense on an absolute basis, we expect this expense to reduce as a percentage of revenue. We will continue to evaluate growth opportunities through acquisitions of other businesses. Impact of Operating Globally We believe our products global footprint provides us the opportunity to enter new markets and accelerate our growth. For 2021, 56.9% of our revenue was derived from sales to customers outside of the United States. In particular, we derived 27.1% of our revenue in 2021 from customers located in China. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, 58.8% of our revenue was derived from sales to customers outside of the United States and 26.4% of our revenue was derived from customers located in China. While we believe operating internationally has beneficially impacted our results of operations, we are subject to inherent risks attributed to operating in a global economy. Further, our international operations have been, and may in the future continue to be, subject to restrictive government regulations. For example, U.S. export regulations, including regulations announced October 7, 2022 that impose broad end-use and other restrictions on doing business with certain customers and facilities in China that develop or produce semiconductor chips or manufacturing equipment, may limit or adversely impact our ability to license or support our products to entities in or doing business with certain advanced AI or supercomputer design companies, foundries and manufacturers of assemblies and components in China. As a result of these restrictions, we anticipate our revenue from China will face challenges to maintain and may decrease. Cyclical Nature of the Semiconductor Industry The semiconductor industry in which our customers operate is highly cyclical and is characterized by increasingly rapid technological change, product obsolescence, competitive pricing pressures, evolving standards, short product life cycles and fluctuations in product supply and demand. New technology may result in sudden changes in system designs or platform changes that may render some of our IP solutions obsolete and require us to devote significant research and development resources to compete effectively. Periods of rapid growth and capacity expansion are occasionally followed by significant market corrections in which our customers sales decline, inventories accumulate and facilities go underutilized. During an expansion cycle, we may increase research and development hiring to add to our product offerings or spend more on sales and marketing to acquire new customers, such as during the recent cycle of expansion in which we increased the number of our engineers significantly. During periods of slower growth or industry contractions, our sales generally suffer due to a decrease in customers Confirmed Design Starts or in sales of our customers products. COVID-19 Impact While the duration and extent of the COVID-19 pandemic depends on future developments that cannot be accurately predicted at this time, such as the extent and effectiveness of containment actions and emergence of new variants, it has already had an adverse effect on the global economy and the lasting effects of the pandemic continue to be unknown. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the measures implemented by various authorities have caused us to change our business practices, including those related to where employees work, the distance between employees in our facilities, limitations on in-person meetings between employees and with customers, suppliers, service providers and stakeholders, as well as restrictions on business travel to domestic and international locations and to attend trade shows, technical conferences and other events. Although we have experienced, and may continue to experience, some impact on certain parts of our business as a result of governmental restrictions and other measures to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition were not materially adversely impacted in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022. 25 Table of Contents We are unable to accurately predict the full impact that COVID-19 will have on our future results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows due to numerous uncertainties, including the duration and severity of the pandemic and containment measures. Although we expect most of our employees to return to physical offices, the nature and extent of that return is uncertain and differs among jurisdictions such as China where restriction against returning to offices remain largely in effect. For additional details, see the section titled Risk FactorsOur business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by health epidemics, pandemics and other outbreaks of infectious disease, including the current COVID-19 pandemic. Key Performance Indicators We use the following key performance indicators to analyze our business performance and financial forecasts and to develop strategic plans, which we believe provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our results of operations in the same manner as our management team . These key performance indicators are presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), and may differ from similarly titled metrics or measures used by other companies, securities analysts, or investors . Annual Contract Value We define Annual Contract Value (ACV) for an individual customer agreement as the total fixed fees under the agreement divided by the number of years in the agreement term. Our total ACV is the aggregate ACVs for all our customers as measured at a given point in time. Total fixed fees include licensing, support and maintenance and other fixed fees under IP licensing or software licensing agreements but excludes variable revenue derived from licensing agreements with customers, particularly royalties. ACV was $50.2 million and $42.7 million as of September 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. In addition, total ACV and trailing-twelve-months royalties and other revenue was $53.2 million and $45.6 million as of September 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We monitor ACV to measure our success and believe the increase in the number shows our progress in expanding our customers adoption of our platform. ACV fluctuates due to a number of factors, including the timing, duration and dollar amount of customer contracts. Active Customers We define Active Customers as customers who have entered into a license agreement with us that remains in effect. The retention and expansion of our relationships with existing customers are key indicators of our revenue potential. We added 10 and six Active Customers during each of the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our annual average customer retention rate, excluding IP deployment solutions, is 98% from September 30, 2021 to September 30, 2022. Confirmed Design Starts We define Confirmed Design Starts as when customers confirm their commencement of new semiconductor designs using our interconnect IP and notify us. Confirmed Design Starts is a metric management uses to assess the activity level of our customers in terms of the number of new semiconductor designs that are started using our interconnect IP in a given period. Our interconnect IP and NoC interface IP customers confirmed a total of 21 and 22 design starts during the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We believe that the number of Confirmed Design Starts is an important indicator of the growth of our business and future royalty revenue trends. Remaining Performance Obligations We define Remaining Performance Obligations (RPO) as the amount of contracted future revenue that has not yet been recognized, including both deferred revenue and contracted amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. 26 Table of Contents The RPO amount is intended to provide visibility into future revenue streams. We expect RPO to fluctuate up or down from period to period for several possible reasons, including amounts, timing, and duration of customer contracts, as well as the timing of billing cycles for each contract. Our RPO was $59.3 million and $50.6 million as of September 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue: Our revenue is primarily derived from licensing intellectual property, licensing software, support and maintenance services, professional services, training services, and royalties. Our agreements often include other service elements including training and professional services which were immaterial for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 , respectively. Our interconnect solutions product arrangements provide customers the right to software licenses, services, software updates and technical support. We enter into licensing arrangements with customers that typically range from two to three years and generally consist of delivery of a design license that grants the customer the right to use the IP to design a contractually defined number of products and stand-ready support services that provides the customer with our application engineer support services. We believe our customers derive a significant benefit from our engineer support services, which consist of our proprietary software tool (RTL), ongoing access to Corporate Application Engineers (CAE) and Field Application Engineers (FAE) that perform certain verifications including benchmark performance, simulations and ultimately, through RTL, instantiate designs into silicon over the design term. The support services, including access to application engineering support services and the benefits of the RTL, are integral and fundamental to the customers ability to derive its intended benefit from the IP. CAEs are part of the product development team providing detailed requirements for engineering projects, working very closely with a customers chief technology officer and the marketing department, and performing quality assurance testing of customer products prior to shipment to their customers. FAEs provide assistance to the customers engineering team in translating their desired SoC architecture into inputs for NoC IP configuration, assistance in optimizing the NoC configuration, answers to customer questions by the online support system or phone, constructive reviews of the progress achieved by the customers development team and provision of advice on how to best use the licensed IP, performance of design reviews before customer project RTL freeze and tape-out to ensure the customer used the licensed IP configuration tooling as intended so that the RTL output meets customer requirements and expectations. FAE reviews of the customers design are generally mandatory and consist of an understanding of the customer requirements and analysis of the adequacy of the contemplated IP considering the customers desired architecture and design goals and objectives, taking into consideration bandwidth, coherence/non-coherence, latency, clock and timing, areas, and any and all constraints, as identified and specific to the design under review. Besides application engineer support services, support and maintenance services also consist of a stand-ready obligation to provide technical support and software updates over the support term. Generally, the first-year of technical support and software updates are bundled with and into the license fee with a customer option to renew additional years of support throughout the license term. However, we continue to provide technical support and software updates throughout the license term even if the customer does not renew these services in subsequent years, making the license term and support and maintenance term co-terminus. Revenues that are derived from the sale of a licensees products that incorporate our IP are classified as royalty revenues. Royalty revenues are recognized during the quarter in which the sale of the product incorporating the IP occurs. Royalties are calculated either as a percentage of the revenues received by a licensees sale of products incorporating the IP or on a per unit basis, as specified in the agreements with the licensees. For a majority of our royalty revenues, we receive the actual sales data from our customers after the quarter ends and account for it as unbilled receivables. When we do not receive actual sales data from the customer prior to the finalization of its financial statements, royalty revenues are recognized based on our estimation of the customers sales during the quarter. 27 Table of Contents Our deployment solutions product arrangements provide customers the right to software licenses, software updates and technical support. The software licenses are time-based licenses with terms generally ranging from one to three years. These arrangements generally have two distinct performance obligations that consist of transferring the licensed software and the support and maintenance service. Support and maintenance services consist of a stand-ready obligation to provide technical support and software updates over the support term. Revenue allocated to the software license is recognized at a point in time upon the later of the delivery date or the beginning of the license period, and revenue allocated to support services is recognized ratably over the support term. Cost of revenue : Cost of revenue relates to costs associated with our licensing agreements and support and maintenance, including applicable FAE personnel-related costs such as stock-based compensation, travel, and allocated overhead. We expect cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue to modestly decline over time due to productivity improvements of our FAE processes. Allocation of Overhead Costs: Overhead costs that are not substantially dedicated for use by a specific functional group are allocated based on headcount. Such costs include costs associated with office facilities, depreciation of property and equipment, certain support function personnel costs and other expenses. Research and development (R&D) expenses: R&D expenses consist primarily of salaries and associated personnel-related costs, facilities expenses associated with research and development activities, third-party project-related expenses connected with the development of our intellectual property which are expensed as incurred, and stock-based compensation expense and other allocated costs. We expect R&D expenses to increase in absolute terms and as a percentage of revenue in the short term and to continue to increase in absolute terms in the medium to long term but decrease as a percentage of revenue as certain new products are launched. Sales and marketing (S&M) expenses: S&M expenses consist primarily of salaries, commissions, travel and other costs associated with S&M activities, as well as advertising, trade show participation, public relations, and other marketing costs, stock-based compensation expenses and other allocated costs. We expect S&M expenses to increase in absolute terms but decrease as a percentage of revenue due to productivity improvements of our sales processes. General and administrative (G&A) expenses: G&A expenses consist primarily of salaries for management and administrative employees, depreciation, insurance costs, accounting, legal and consulting fees, other professional service fees, expenses related to the development of corporate initiatives and facilities expenses associated with G&A activities and stock-based compensation expense, fees for directors and other allocated costs. We incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations, and increased expenses for additional G&A personnel, directors and officers insurance, investor relations, and professional services. We expect G&A expenses to increase as our business grows. In addition, we expect G&A expenses as a percentage of revenue to vary from period to period but generally decrease over the long term. Interest and other income (expense), net: Interest and other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments, gains and losses from foreign currency transactions, gain on deconsolidation of subsidiary, realized gains and losses from available-for-sale investments as well as deferred income and our proportionate share of net income (losses) from our equity method investee. Provision for income taxes: Our income tax provision consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business and includes foreign non-recoverable withholding taxes. We have a full valuation allowance against our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets as the realization of the full amount of these deferred tax assets is uncertain, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance until it becomes more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes our GAAP results of operations for the periods presented. The results below are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for future periods. Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2022 2021 2022 2021 (in thousands) Total revenue $ 12,598 $ 8,959 $ 39,175 $ 26,430 Cost of revenue (1) 928 883 3,196 2,618 Gross profit 11,670 8,076 35,979 23,812 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 11,022 7,609 30,849 20,572 Sales and marketing (1) 4,411 3,242 12,788 7,971 General and administrative (1) 3,991 1,742 12,138 9,754 Total operating expenses 19,424 12,593 55,775 38,297 Loss from operations (7,754) (4,517) (19,796) (14,485) Interest and other income (expense), net 318 (183) 346 (497) Loss before provision for income taxes (7,436) (4,700) (19,450) (14,982) Provision for income taxes 248 268 722 612 Net loss $ (7,684) $ (4,968) $ (20,172) $ (15,594) (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 2022 2021 Cost of revenue $ 118 $ 15 $ 474 $ 42 Research and development 1,798 225 4,435 645 Sales and marketing 679 23 1,678 72 General and administrative 794 170 2,495 385 Total stock-based compensation $ 3,389 $ 433 $ 9,082 $ 1,144 The following table summarizes our results of operations as a percentage of total revenue for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2022 2021 2022 2021 (as a percentage of total revenue) Total revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 7 10 8 10 Gross profit 93 90 92 90 Operating expenses: Research and development 87 85 79 78 Sales and marketing 35 36 32 30 General and administrative 32 19 31 37 Total operating expenses 154 140 142 145 Loss from operations (61) (50) (50) (55) Interest and other income (expense), net 3 (2) 1 (2) Loss before provision for income taxes (58) (52) (49) (57) Provision for income taxes 2 3 2 2 Net loss (60) % (55) % (51) % (59) % 29 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Three Months Ended September 30, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Licensing, support and maintenance $ 11,135 $ 8,136 $ 2,999 37 % Variable royalties 695 739 (44) (6) % Other 768 84 684 814 % Total $ 12,598 $ 8,959 $ 3,639 41 % Growth in our licensing and support and maintenance continued with a 37% increase during the three months ended September 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2021. The increase was primarily due to the addition of new customers and an increase in new license agreements with existing customers. Cost of revenue Three Months Ended September 30, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 928 $ 883 $ 45 5 % Cost of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2022 remained relatively flat when compared to three months ended September 30, 2021. Operating expenses Three Months Ended September 30, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 11,022 $ 7,609 $ 3,413 45 % Sales and marketing 4,411 3,242 1,169 36 % General and administrative 3,991 1,742 2,249 129 % Total operating expenses $ 19,424 $ 12,593 $ 6,831 54 % Research and development expenses R&D expenses increased, $3.4 million, or 45%, to $11.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 from $7.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in R&D expenses was due to higher stock-based compensation expense of $1.6 million primarily related to our RSUs granted prior to our IPO, as the performance-based vesting condition applicable to such RSUs was satisfied upon the effectiveness of our IPO in October 2021, lower research tax credit of $0.6 million and higher allocated costs of $0.3 million. We also incurred higher employee-related costs of $0.3 million and professional fees of $0.2 million as a result of an increase in engineering headcount and overall costs to support our continued growth and investment in our interconnect technology and IP deployment software. 30 Table of Contents Sales and marketing expenses S&M expenses increased, $1.2 million, or 36%, to $4.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 from $3.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in S&M expenses was primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense of $0.6 million primarily related to our RSUs granted prior to our IPO, as the performance-based vesting condition applicable to such RSUs was satisfied upon the effectiveness of our IPO in October 2021 and an increase in employee-related costs, including commissions, of $0.4 million mainly driven by higher headcount to support growth of our business . General and administrative expenses G&A expenses increased, $2.2 million, or 129%, to $4.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 from $1.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in G&A expenses was primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense of $0.6 million primarily related to our RSUs granted prior to our IPO, as the performance-based vesting condition applicable to such RSUs was satisfied upon the effectiveness of our IPO in October 2021. We also incurred increased directors and officers liability insurance expenses of $0.6 million to support the normal course of operating as a public company and higher employee-related costs of $0.4 million as a result of an increase in headcount and overall costs to support our continued growth. Interest and other income (expense), net Three Months Ended September 30, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest and other income (expense), net $ 318 $ (183) $ 501 (274) % Interest and other income (expense), net was an income of $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 compared to an expense of $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in interest and other income is primarily related to foreign currency exchange, interest income earned on higher cash balances due to proceeds from our IPO in October 2021 and interest income earned on our available-for-sale investments. Provision for income taxes Three Months Ended September 30, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 248 $ 268 $ (20) (7) % Provision for income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2022 was $0.2 million, compared to $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021. The decrease in our income tax expense was due to a change in the forecasted geographic mix of worldwide earnings which are taxed at different statutory tax rates, the impact of losses in jurisdictions which have full valuation allowances, and changes in current year foreign withholding taxes. Foreign withholding taxes are generally assessed on gross revenue generated, rather than pre-tax income, in certain countries in which the Company does not file an income tax return. 31 Table of Contents Comparison of the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Licensing, support and maintenance $ 35,743 $ 24,353 $ 11,390 47 % Variable royalties 2,266 1,913 353 18 % Other 1,166 164 1,002 611 % Total $ 39,175 $ 26,430 $ 12,745 48 % Growth in our licensing and support and maintenance continued with a 47% increase during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The increase was primarily due to increase in new license agreements with existing customers, the addition of new customers as well as increased average selling prices. Growth in our variable royalty revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was primarily due to the addition of new customers. Growth in our other revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was primarily due to increased services performed for existing customers. Cost of revenue Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 3,196 $ 2,618 $ 578 22 % Cost of revenue increased, $0.6 million, or 22%, to $3.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, from $2.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in cost of revenue was primarily due to higher FAE employee-related costs, which includes an increase in stock-based compensation expense related to our RSUs granted prior to our IPO, as the performance-based vesting condition applicable to such RSUs was satisfied upon the effectiveness of our IPO in October 2021. Operating expenses Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 30,849 $ 20,572 $ 10,277 50 % Sales and marketing 12,788 7,971 4,817 60 % General and administrative 12,138 9,754 2,384 24 % Total operating expenses $ 55,775 $ 38,297 $ 17,478 46 % Research and development expenses R&D expenses increased, $10.3 million, or 50%, to $30.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 from $20.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in R&D expenses was due to higher stock-based compensation expense of $3.8 million primarily related to our RSUs granted prior to our IPO, as the performance-based vesting condition applicable to such RSUs was satisfied upon the effectiveness of our IPO in October 2021, an increase in allocated costs of $2.7 million primarily attributable to increased headcount and a decrease in research tax credit of $1.0 million. We also incurred higher other employee-related costs of $1.7 million and professional fees of $0.5 million primarily attributable to increased engineering headcount as a result of growth and our investment in our interconnect technology and IP deployment software. 32 Table of Contents Sales and marketing expenses S&M expenses increased, $4.8 million, or 60%, to $12.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 from $8.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in S&M expenses was primarily due to higher other employee-related costs, including commissions, of $2.1 million mainly driven by higher headcount and overall costs to support our continued growth, an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $1.6 million related to our RSUs granted prior to our IPO, as the performance-based vesting condition applicable to such RSUs was satisfied upon the effectiveness of our IPO in October 2021, and an increase in allocated costs of $1.0 million primarily attributable to increased headcount. General and administrative expenses G&A expenses increased, $2.4 million, or 24%, to $12.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 from $9.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense of $2.1 million primarily related to our RSUs granted prior to our IPO, as the performance-based vesting condition applicable to such RSUs was satisfied upon the effectiveness of our IPO in October 2021. We also incurred increased directors and officers liability insurance expenses of $1.9 million to support the normal course of operating as a public company, partially offset by decrease in professional fees of $1.9 million. Interest and other income (expense), net Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest and other income (expense), net $ 346 $ (497) $ 843 (170) % Interest and other income (expense), net for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was an income of $0.3 million, compared to an expense of $0.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in interest and other income is primarily related to foreign currency exchange, the gain on deconsolidation of our wholly-owned subsidiary, interest income earned on higher cash balances due to proceeds from our IPO in October 2021, and interest income earned on our available-for-sale investments. Provision for income taxes Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 722 $ 612 $ 110 18 % Provision for income taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was $0.7 million, compared to $0.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in our income tax expense was due to a change in the forecasted geographic mix of worldwide earnings which are taxed at different statutory tax rates, the impact of losses in jurisdictions which have full valuation allowances, and changes in current year foreign withholding taxes. Foreign withholding taxes are generally assessed on gross revenue generated, rather than pre-tax income, in certain countries in which the Company does not file an income tax return. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed operations primarily from payments received from our customers, the net proceeds from the sale of our common stock in the IPO as well as the net proceeds from the private issuance of our convertible preferred stock and common stock. As of September 30, 2022, we had $72.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of which $4.2 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. 33 Table of Contents We believe our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, available borrowing capacity and cash expected to be generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our expected working capital needs, capital expenditures, financial commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations for at least the next 12 months. If these resources are not sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may be required to seek additional financing. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may contain covenants that significantly restrict our operations or our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future. Any additional financing that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us or our existing stockholders, or at all. See Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryOur ability to raise capital in the future may be limited and could prevent us from executing our growth strategy in our 2021 Form 10-K for additional information and elsewhere in this report. Cash Flows The following table summarizes changes in our cash flows for the periods indicated: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (6,376) $ (4,006) Net cash used in investing activities $ (7,333) $ (488) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (3,916) $ 3,991 Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from period to period depending on a variety of factors including the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities primarily relate to payroll-related costs, payments for professional services, obligations under our property leases and design tool licenses. Our primary source of cash inflows is receipts from our accounts receivable. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set forth in the contracts. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, net cash used in operating activities was $6.4 million primarily due to our net loss of $20.2 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $10.4 million and $3.4 million changes in operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation expense of $9.1 million and depreciation and amortization of $1.6 million, partially offset by gain on deconsolidation of our wholly-owned subsidiary of $0.1 million and amortization of deferred income of $0.1 million. The primary drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $4.2 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $0.5 million increase in deferred revenue, a $0.4 million increase in accounts payable, partially offset by a $1.8 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, net cash used in operating activities was $4.0 million primarily due to our net loss of $15.6 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $2.2 million and $9.4 million changes in our operating assets and liabiliti es. The primary drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $6.2 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $5.1 million increase in deferred revenue, a $1.3 million increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, partially offset by a $3.9 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was $7.3 million, primarily attributable to purchases of property and equipment, purchases of available-for-sale securities, proceeds from principal portion of our related party loan and payments related to investment in our equity method investee, see Note 13 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements . 34 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 was $0.5 million, primarily attributable to purchases of property and equipment to support our office facilities. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was $3.9 million, primarily attributable to payments of contingent consideration for business acquisition of $1.6 million and payments to tax authorities for shares withheld from employees of $2.1 million. Net cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 was $4.0 million, primarily attributable to proceeds from issuance of common stock of $5.4 million, partially offset by the principal payments of term loan of $0.5 million and payments of deferred offering costs of $0.9 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including entities sometimes referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates as compared to those descri bed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our 2021 Form 10-K, other than those discussed in Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements For more information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. JOBS Act We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This provision allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of some accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act for the adoption of certain accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. See Note 2, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included on our 2021 Form 10-K. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates.