Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report, before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. We cannot assure you that any of the events discussed below will not occur. These events could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Unless otherwise indicated, references to our business being harmed in these risk factors will include harm to our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue and future prospects. In such event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not believed by us to be material may also negatively impact us. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We face significant competition from larger companies and third party providers that may deploy their resources so they can develop their IP solutions internally. We are engaged in a competitive segment of the global semiconductor industry. Our competitive landscape is characterized by competition from companies that have greater resources than us. A variety of factors could adversely impact our ability to compete, including rapid technological change in product design and manufacturing, customers that make purchase decisions based on a mix of factors of varying importance and continuous declines in average selling prices (ASPs). We compete principally on the basis of technology, product quality and features, license, royalty and usage terms, post-contract customer support, interoperability among products, and price and payment terms. Often, we compete against larger companies that possess substantial financial, technical, research and development and engineering resources that can be deployed so they can develop their IP solutions internally. In addition, we also compete against other third-party providers of IP integration solutions that similarly possess substantial financial, technical, research and development and engineering resources. In addition, in certain cases, competitive companies may be supported by local or international government funding and similar resources. Varying combinations of these resources provide advantages to these competitors that enable them to influence industry trends and the pace at which they adapt to these trends. A strong competitive response from one or more of our competitors to our marketplace efforts, or a shift in customer preferences to competitors products, could result in increased pressure to lower our prices more rapidly than anticipated, increased sales and marketing expense, and/or market share loss. The consolidation of our competitors or collaboration among our competitors to deliver more comprehensive offerings than they could individually may also impact our ability to compete effectively. To the extent our revenue is negatively impacted by competitive pressures and reduced pricing, our business could be harmed. In addition, our ability to compete in our market is subject to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The occurrence of any of the below could adversely affect our ability to compete and harm our business: Our ability to anticipate and lead critical product development cycles and technological shifts as driven by our target markets, to innovate rapidly and efficiently and to improve our existing solutions. Whether any competitor substantially increases its engineering and marketing resources to compete with us in the semiconductor IP deployment software technology arena. Whether a new entrant with substantially greater resources and/or supported by governmental resources decides to enter the markets in which we compete. Whether any existing or new competitor bundles its technologies into one package at a discounted price that would make it uneconomical for our customers to license our products separately. The challenges of developing, or acquiring externally developed, technology solutions that are adequate and competitive in meeting the rapidly evolving requirements of next-generation design challenges. Our ability to compete on the basis of payment and pricing features and terms. Decisions by semiconductor companies, system companies, device or other end product producers, and/or OEMs to develop IP development internally, rather than license IP from outside vendors due to budget constraints or excess engineering capacity. Actions by regulators or governmental entities to limit product availability, trade and exportability or the features or contractual terms that either we or our customers can apply to product and service offerings, or to affect monetary policy. Actions by regulators or governmental entities to modify or augment tax treatment of our product and service offerings. 23 Table of Contents The impact of global and regional inflation on our and our customers profitability due to increases in wages, salaries, operating expenses, and costs of insurance, benefits and medical coverage. The potential effects of geopolitical conflicts, such as the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine, including retaliatory and regulatory actions, on purchasing, development, sales and innovation responses and trends in response to such conflicts. Competition, embargoes, sanctions, boycotts and/or social unrest. Local or international economic headwind trends that may lead to recessions, economic slowdowns or sudden changes in economic needs of regions and consumers. Silicon chip supply chain and shipment volume restrictions on our customers and their end customers that will impact the amount of royalties payable to us. We may also be unable to reduce the cost of our products sufficiently to enable us to compete with our competitors. Our cost reduction efforts may not allow us to keep pace with competitive pricing pressures and/or other economic factors including inflation and customer and end market supply chain constraints and could adversely affect our gross margins and ability to meet customer demand. To the extent we are unable to reduce the prices of our products and remain competitive, our revenue will likely decline, resulting in further pressure on our gross margins, which could harm our business. Many other companies in the IP interconnect space have not been able to continue as a going concern due to intense competition and low margins. See BusinessCompetition. We have a history of net losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have incurred net losses in certain periods historically. We incurred a net loss of $23.4 million in 2021 and $3.3 million in 2020, which has resulted in us having an accumulated deficit of $39.0 million and $15.6 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. We have spent significant funds on organizational and start-up activities, to recruit engineers and other employees and to support our research and development. The net losses we incur may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may increase as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our long-term success is dependent upon our ability to successfully market our interconnect IP and IP deployment solutions, develop new interconnect IP and IP deployment solutions, earn revenue, obtain additional capital when needed and, ultimately, to maintain profitable operations. We will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve profitability. It is possible that we will not achieve profitability or that, even if we do achieve profitability, we may not maintain or increase profitability in the future. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the value of our common stock. Because our IP solutions are components of end products, if semiconductor, system producers and/or end product producer companies in the automotive market, artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML) market, 5G and wireless communications market, large scale cloud and data center market and consumer electronics market do not incorporate our solutions into their end products or if the end products of our customers do not achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate adequate license sales and royalty income from our products. Our IP solutions include technology that manages on-chip communications in SoC semiconductor devices. We do not license our IP solutions and deployment tools directly to end-users; we license our technology primarily to companies in the automotive market, AI/ML market, 5G and wireless communications market, large scale cloud and data center market and consumer electronics market, who then incorporate our technology into the products they sell. As a result, we rely on our customers to incorporate our technology into their end products at the design stage. Once a company incorporates a competitors technology or develops the technology internally and incorporates it into its end product, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our technology to that company because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the company. As a result, we may not achieve targeted customer acceptance despite incurring significant expenditures to develop new technology. Moreover, even after a customer agrees to incorporate our technology into its end products, the design cycle is long and may be delayed due to factors beyond our control, which may result in our customers product not reaching the market until long after our initial design win, which we define as winning the competitive bid selection process. From initial product design-in to volume production, many factors could impact the timing and/or amount of sales actually realized from the design-in. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the competitive position of our customers product, our customers financial stability, and our customers ability to ship products under our customers original schedule. Moreover, several external factors affect our customers ability to start their own product designs and manufacture and ship their products, including target product market conditions, our customers financial stability, our customers competitive positioning and external economic conditions (such as but not limited to inflation, customer and end market supply chain constraints, geopolitical conflict, sanctions and competition) that may prolong the customers decision-making process and design cycle. 24 Table of Contents Further, we do not control the business practices of our customers and we do not influence the degree to which they promote, market or set their product pricing. We therefore cannot assure you that our customers will devote satisfactory efforts to promote their end products, which incorporate our IP technology and deployment solutions. We depend on growth and economic stability in the end markets that use our products. Any slowdown in the growth and economic stability of these end markets could harm our business. Our continued success will depend in large part on general economic growth and stability, and growth and stability within our target markets in the automotive market, AI/ML market, 5G and wireless communications market, large scale cloud and data center market and consumer electronics market. Factors affecting these markets could seriously harm our customers and/or end customers and, as a result, harm us, examples of which include: Reduced sales of our customers and/or end customers products. The effects of catastrophic and other disruptive events at our customers and/or end customers offices or facilities including, but not limited to, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, pandemics, epidemics or other outbreaks of infectious disease, including the current COVID-19 pandemic, breaches of security or loss of critical data. Increased costs associated with potential disruptions to our customers and/or end markets supply chain and other manufacturing and production operations. The deterioration of our customers and/or end customers financial condition. Delays and project cancellations as a result of design flaws in the products developed by our customers and/or end customers. The inability of our customers and/or end customers to dedicate the resources necessary to promote and commercialize their products. The inability of our customers and/or end customers to adapt to changing technological demands resulting in their products becoming obsolete. The failure of our customers and/or end customers products to achieve market success and gain broad market acceptance. Any slowdown in the growth of these end markets, or the emergence of economic instability in these end markets, could harm our business. For example, a significant element of our growth strategy depends on the increasing adoption of vehicles with more sophisticated automated driving, which will likely require more complex SoCs. If anticipated demand in the end market for these vehicles does not materialize, whether due to consumer demand not materializing, regulatory interventions delaying the deployment of automated driving, or the emergence of economic instability in end markets arising from factors such as inflationary trends, deteriorating purchasing power, supply chain disruptions and regional and/or worldwide chip shortages, unemployment spikes, labor shortages or end market reactions to regional or global geopolitical uncertainties or conflicts, or other factors beyond our control, it would adversely affect demand for our products from customers and royalty revenue and impact our ability to execute our growth strategy. We depend on market acceptance of third-party semiconductor IP. The semiconductor IP industry is a relatively small and emerging industry. Our future growth will depend on the level of market acceptance of our third-party licensable IP model, the variety of IP offerings available on the market and the shift in customer preference away from in-house development of semiconductor IP technologies and IP deployment software. Furthermore, the third-party licensable IP model is highly dependent on the market adoption of new services and products, including in the automotive market, AI/ML market, 5G and wireless communications market, large scale cloud and data center market and consumer electronics market. Such market adoption is important because the increased cost associated with ownership and maintenance of the more complex architectures in SoCs needed for the advanced services and products and time to market pressures on our customers may motivate companies to license third-party IP rather than design them in-house. The trends that would enable our growth are largely beyond our control. Semiconductor customers also may choose to adopt a multi-chip, off-the-shelf chip solution versus licensing or using highly-integrated chipsets that embed our technologies or use our deployment software. If these market shifts do not materialize or third-party semiconductor IP does not achieve market acceptance, our business could be harmed. 25 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on sustaining or growing our licensing revenue and the failure to achieve such revenue would lead to a material decline in our results of operations. Our revenue consists largely of technology license fees and other fees and royalties paid for access to our patented technologies, existing technology and other development and support services we provide to our customers. Our ability to secure and renew the licenses from which our revenue is derived depends on our customers adopting our technology and using it in the products they sell. Once secured, royalty revenue may be negatively affected by factors within and outside our control, including reductions in our customers sales prices, sales volumes, our failure to timely complete engineering deliverables and the customers negotiated contract terms. In addition, our customer acquisition cycle for new licenses and license renewals for existing licensees can be lengthy, typically between two to nine months, and can also be costly and unpredictable. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in signing new license agreements or renewing existing license agreements on equal or favorable terms or at all. If we do not achieve our revenue goals, our results of operations could decline. The nature of the design win process requires us to incur significant expenses without any guarantee that research and development and sales efforts will generate revenue, which could adversely affect our financial results. We focus on winning competitive bid selection processes, called design wins, to incorporate our IP interconnect and other solutions in our customers products. These lengthy technical and commercial selection processes may require us to incur significant expenditures and dedicate valued engineering resources to the development or enhancement of our IP interconnect and other solutions without any assurance that our bids will be selected as the design wins. If we incur such expenditures and fail to be selected in the bid selection process, our operating and financial results may be adversely affected. Further, because of the significant costs associated with qualifying new suppliers, customers are likely to use the same or an enhanced version of semiconductor IP from existing suppliers across a number of similar and successor products for a lengthy period of time. As a result, if we fail to secure an initial design win for any of IP interconnect and other solutions to any particular customer, we may lose the opportunity to make future sales of those solutions to that customer for a significant period of time, or at all, and we may experience an associated decline in revenue relating to those products. Because we expect the ASPs of our products may decline over time, we consider design wins to be critical to our future success and anticipate that for our newer products, we are and will remain highly dependent on revenue from newer design wins. Failure to achieve initial design wins may also weaken our position in future competitive selection processes because we may not be perceived as an industry leader . Further, a significant portion of our revenue in any period may depend on a single product design win with a large customer. As a result, the loss of any key design win or any significant delay in the ramp of volume production of the customers products into which our product is designed could harm our business. We may not be able to maintain sales to our key customers or continue to secure key design wins for a variety of reasons, and our customers can stop incorporating our products into their product offerings with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty. The loss of a key customer or design win, a reduction in sales to any key customer, a significant delay or negative development in our customers product development plans, or our inability to attract new significant customers or secure new key design wins could harm our business. Even if we succeed in securing design wins for our IP interconnect and other solutions and our IP deployment solutions, we may not generate timely or sufficient margins or margins from those wins and our financial results could suffer. After incurring significant design and development expenditures and dedicating engineering resources to achieve a single initial design win for an IP interconnect or other solution, a substantial period of time generally elapses before we generate meaningful revenue from royalties relating to such solution, if at all. The reasons for this delay include, among other things, the following: Changing customer requirements, resulting in an extended development cycle for the product. Delay in the ramp-up of volume production of the customers products into which our solutions are designed. Delay or cancellation of the customers product development plans. Competitive pressures to reduce our selling price for the customers end-product. The discovery of design flaws, defects, errors or bugs in the products, whether or not those defects, errors or bugs are related to our IP interconnect and other solutions that delay the customer from finishing the product in which our IP solution is incorporated. Lower than expected acceptance of the customers end-products. 26 Table of Contents Moreover, as noted above, even if a customer selects our IP interconnect and other solutions, we cannot guarantee that this will result in any royalty or future licensing revenue, as the customer may ultimately change or cancel its product plans, or the customers efforts to market and sell its product may not be successful. We continually pursue new IP interconnect and other solutions and IP deployment technology initiatives, and if we fail to successfully carry out these initiatives, our business could be harmed. As part of the evolution of our business, we have made substantial investments to develop IP interconnect and other solutions, IP deployment software solutions and enhancements to existing technologies we license through our acquisitions and research and development efforts. Continuing to meet the requirements of smaller die size, lower power consumption, a higher frequency of operation and management of critical net latency in a timely and cost-effective manner for chips used in the automotive market, AI/ML market, 5G and wireless communications market, large scale cloud and data center market and consumer electronics market have resulted in increased SoC design complexity for chips used in these markets. If we are unable to meet these demands for increased SoC design complexity, if we are unable to anticipate technological changes in our industry by introducing new or enhanced IP interconnect and other solutions and/or IP deployment solutions in a timely and cost-effective manner, or if we fail to introduce new technologies that meet market demand, we may lose our competitive position, our products may become obsolete, and our business could be harmed. Additionally, from time to time, we invest in expansion into adjacent markets, including our recent acquisition of Magillem and our entry into the IP deployment solutions market. Although we believe these solutions are complementary to our IP interconnect solutions, we have less experience and a more limited operating history in offering software that, among other things, manages register configurations of IP blocks, assembles multiple IP blocks into SoC platforms and links design parameters and metadata to documentation, and our efforts in this area may not be successful. Our success in these new markets depends on a variety of factors, including the following: Our ability to attract a new customer base, including in industries in which we have less experience. Our successful development of new sales and marketing strategies to meet customer requirements. Our ability to accurately predict, prepare for, and promptly respond to technological developments in new fields. Our ability to compete with new and existing competitors in these new industries, many of which may have more financial resources, industry experience, brand recognition, relevant IP rights, and/or more established customer relationships than we currently do, and they could include free and open-source solutions that provide similar IP deployment solutions. Our ability to skillfully balance our investment in adjacent markets with investment in our existing products and services. Our ability to attract and retain employees with expertise in new or emerging fields affecting our business. Difficulties in any of our new product development efforts or our efforts to enter adjacent markets, including delays or disruptions due to factors outside of our control such as any adverse impact resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, could harm our business. A fundamental shift in technologies, the regulatory climate or demand patterns and preferences in our existing product markets or the product markets of our customers or end-users could make our current products obsolete, prevent or delay the introduction of new products or enhancements to our existing products or render our products irrelevant to our customers needs. If our new product development efforts fail to align with the needs of our customers, including due to circumstances outside of our control like a fundamental shift in the product markets of our customers and end users or regulatory changes, our business could be harmed. Further, we design our IP interconnect solutions to function optimally with various industry-standard core IP transaction protocols including AMBA, ACE, CHI and AXI. Should developers limit access to their IP protocol information or cease cooperation with us for any reason, our ability to support certain processors and IP protocols would be delayed, which could harm our business. 27 Table of Contents We may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our operating results. We currently devote substantial resources to the research and development of new and enhanced interconnect IP and IP deployment solutions. However, we may be required to devote more resources than anticipated to address design requirements for specific target markets, new competitors, technological advances in the semiconductor industry or by competitors, our acquisitions, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. Additionally, our periodic research and development expenses may be independent of our level of revenue, which could negatively impact our financial results. We expect these expenses to increase in the foreseeable future as our technology development efforts continue, and there can be no guarantee that our research and development investments will result in products that create additional revenue. We may also decide to increase our research and development investment to seize customer or market opportunities, which could negatively impact our financial results. We are also faced with hiring constraints, including for hiring engineering resources. Product errors or defects could expose us to liability and harm our reputation and we could lose market share. Software products frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced, when new versions are released, or when integrated with technologies developed by acquired companies. Product errors, including those resulting from third-party suppliers, could negatively affect the performance or interoperability of our IP interconnect and IP deployment solutions, could delay the development or release of new solutions or new versions and could adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our technology. In addition, any allegations of manufacturability issues resulting from use of our IP interconnect and other solutions or semiconductor design efficiency issues resulting from our IP deployment solutions could, even if untrue, adversely affect our reputation and our customers willingness to license our technology. Any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose customers, increase our service costs, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could harm our business and operating results. If we fail to offer high-quality support, our reputation could suffer. Interconnect IP technology is complex, and our customer support is critical for the successful deployment of our IP in our customers designs, and we have 30 corporate and field application engineers in our global support organization. High-quality support is important for customer retention, and the importance of our support function will increase as we expand our business and pursue new customers. If we do not help our customers quickly resolve issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to maintain and expand our offerings to existing and new customers could suffer, and our reputation with existing or potential customers could suffer. Our dependence on international customers and operations also subjects us to a range of other additional regulatory, operational, financial and political risks that could adversely affect our financial results. For 2021 and 2020, 56.9% and 67.1%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from sales to customers outside of the United States. In particular, we derived 27.1% and 44.9% of our revenue in 2021 and 2020, respectively, from customers located in China. We expect our revenue from China to decrease due to the applicable U.S. government trade restrictions. As a result, the economic, political, legal and social conditions in China could harm our business. In addition, we have offices globally with our sales and research and development being conducted in offices located in the San Francisco Bay Area, Texas, France, China, South Korea and Japan. Moreover, conducting business outside the United States subjects us to a number of additional risks and challenges, including: Changes in a specific countrys or regions political, regulatory or economic conditions. A pandemic, epidemic or other outbreak of an infectious disease, including the current COVID-19 pandemic, which may cause us or our distributors, vendors and/or customers to temporarily suspend our or their respective operations in the affected city or country or completely. Compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations (including those of municipalities or provinces where we have operations) and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, social insurance contributions and other payroll taxes and fees to governmental entities, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers. 28 Table of Contents Unanticipated restrictions on our ability to sell to foreign customers where sales of products and the provision of services may require export licenses or are prohibited by government action, unfavorable foreign exchange controls and currency exchange rates. Imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, including trade tensions such as U.S.-China trade tensions. Potential for substantial penalties and litigation related to violations of a wide variety of laws, treaties and regulations, including labor regulations, export control and anti-corruption regulations (including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act). Difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas, time zones and cultures. Changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. Potential political, legal and economic instability, armed conflict, and civil unrest in the countries in which we and our customers are located. Difficulty and costs of maintaining effective data security. Inadequate protection of our IP. Nationalization and expropriation. Restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, including withholding taxes and other potentially negative tax consequences. Unfavorable and/or changing foreign tax treaties and policies. Increased exposure to general market and economic conditions outside of the United States. Currency exchange rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue and expenses, and the cost and risk of entering into hedging transactions if we chose to do so in the future. Increased regulatory uncertainties with respect to our wholly foreign-owned enterprise operating in China and any joint ventures we may form or contribute IP or other resources to in the future. Trends such as global and regional inflation, supply shortages and supply chain disruptions, geopolitical conflicts and retaliatory actions and regulations affecting or relating to regions such as but not limited to Ukraine, Russia, Eastern Europe or in the Greater China region, may lead to the deterioration of our immediate customers and/or end market customers ability and/or willingness to purchase, use, develop, market or sell products or solutions that incorporate or are made while using our products. These factors, individually or in combination, could impair our ability to effectively operate one or more of our foreign facilities or deliver our semiconductor IP or IP deployment solutions, result in unexpected and material expenses, or cause an unexpected decline in the demand for our products in certain countries or regions. For example, one formerly substantial royalty customer became unable to source a key material in 2020 as a result of the trade disputes between the United States and China, and consequently shipment volumes of products containing our interconnect IP have been significantly lower, adversely affecting our royalty revenue. Our failure to manage the risks and challenges associated with our international business and operations could harm our business. 29 Table of Contents Downturns or volatility in general economic conditions, including as a result of the current COVID-19 pandemic or any other outbreak of an infectious disease, could harm our business. Our revenue, gross margin, and ability to achieve and maintain profitability depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which our customers compete. Weaknesses in the global economy and financial markets, including the current weaknesses resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and any adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions that may occur in the future, including any recession, economic slowdown or disruption of credit markets, may lead to, lower demand for products that incorporate our solutions, including in the automotive market, AI/ML market, 5G and wireless communications market, large scale cloud and data center market and consumer electronics market. A decline in end-user demand can affect our customers demand for our products, the ability of our customers to obtain credit and otherwise meet their payment obligations and the likelihood of customers canceling or deferring existing orders. Our business could be harmed by such actions. In addition, any disruption in the credit markets, including as a result of the current COVID-19 pandemic, could impede our access to capital. If we have limited access to additional financing sources, we may be required to defer capital expenditures or seek other sources of liquidity, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. All of these factors related to global economic conditions, which are beyond our control, could harm our business. For a more detailed discussion of the COVID-19 pandemic and its recent and potential impact on our business, see Our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by health epidemics, pandemics and other outbreaks of infectious disease, including the current COVID-19 pandemic. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may limit our ability to maintain or improve our revenue. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is prone to significant downturns from time to time. Cyclical downturns can result from a variety of market forces including constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand, all of which can result in significant declines in semiconductor demand. We have experienced downturns in the past and may experience such downturns in the future. For example, the industry experienced a significant downtown in connection with the most recent global recession in 2008, and further experienced a downturn in 2020, which may be prolonged as a result of the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Recently, downturns in the semiconductor industry have been attributed to a variety of factors, including the current COVID-19 pandemic, ongoing trade disputes among the United States and China, weakness in demand and pricing for semiconductors across applications and excess inventory. Recent downturns have directly impacted our business, as has been the case with many other companies, suppliers, distributors and customers in the semiconductor industry and other industries around the world, and any prolonged or significant future downturns in the semiconductor industry could harm our business. Conversely, significant upturns may suppress customer shipments of royalty-bearing products incorporating our IP solutions due to our customers having limited access to third-party foundry and assembly capacity. In the event of such an upturn, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources, or locate suitable third-party suppliers or other third-party subcontractors to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, and our business could be harmed. Our revenue has been concentrated among a small number of licensees and customers, and if we lose any of these customers and fail to replace them, our revenue may decrease substantially. A significant amount of our revenue is derived from a limited number of customers. In 2021 and 2020, sales to Intel Corporation accounted for 22.8% and 15.3%, respectively, and sales to SZ DJI Technology Co., Ltd. accounted for nil and 24.7%, respectively, of our revenue. We expect that a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result of this revenue concentration, our results of operations could be adversely affected by the decision of a single key licensee or customer to cease using our technology or products or by a decline in the number of products that incorporate our technology that are sold by a single licensee or customer or by a small group of licensees or customers. We must continue to obtain new significant licensees and to increase our revenue and grow our business. 30 Table of Contents Failure to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our products. Our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our products and platform capabilities will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our global sales and application engineering organization. We plan to continue expanding our sales force, both domestically and internationally. We also plan to dedicate significant resources to sales and marketing programs. All of these efforts will require us to invest significant financial and other resources. Our business will be harmed if our sales and marketing efforts do not generate significant increases in revenue or increases in revenue are smaller than anticipated. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from expanding our sales force if we are unable to hire, develop, integrate and retain talented and effective sales personnel, if our new and existing sales personnel, on the whole, are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, or if our sales and marketing programs are not effective. We experience a strong seasonality in sales in the fourth calendar quarter of the year. As a result, our results of operations are subject to substantial quarterly fluctuations, which may seriously harm our business. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in sales due to the spending patterns of semiconductor customers who license our products. Typically, the number of total new license agreements we enter into have generally been lowest in the first and second calendar quarters. We expect these seasonality trends to continue. As a result, revenue recognized from our total new license agreements are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may seriously harm our business. Substantial portions of our sales are made, and we anticipate will be made, to consumer, automotive, network, AI/ML, large-scale cloud and data center, and other industry suppliers. Any downturn in any of these the markets could significantly harm our business. Of our annual contract value at December 31, 2021, 32% was derived from customers supplying to the consumer industry, 15% was to customers that supply various systems and components to the automotive industry, 18% was to customers in the AI/ML industry and 13% was to customers supplying large scale cloud and data center customers. Each of these sectors is subject to specific market risks. The consumer sector, for example, is subject to changes in end consumer spending patterns, technology developments and general economic conditions. We are also exposed to the risks associated with the automotive market. For example, our anticipated future growth is highly dependent on the adoption of autonomous driving technologies, which are expected to have increased sensor and power product content. A downturn in the automotive market could delay automakers plans to introduce new vehicles with these features, which would negatively impact the demand for our products and our ability to grow our business. Several industries in which companies incorporate our technology, including the automotive industry and others, may undergo consolidation and reorganization and, in some cases, their suppliers may or have entered bankruptcy. Although we have not experienced any lost business or material bad debt write-offs as a result of such consolidation, such trends could harm our business. Moreover, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the associated responses by governments of various countries to prevent its spread, the automotive industry, including manufacturers, dealers, distributors and third-party suppliers have been adversely impacted. For example, many automotive manufacturers were forced to suspend manufacturing operations and may be required to do so again. In addition, government-imposed restrictions on businesses, operations and travel and the related economic uncertainty have impacted demand in many global markets. While demand in the automotive industry is dependent on a number of factors, automotive manufacturers expect the impact of COVID-19 to be highly dependent on its duration and severity. The foregoing impacts and other adverse effects on the automotive industry could harm our business, as well as our ability to execute our growth strategy. Our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by health epidemics, pandemics and other outbreaks of infectious disease, including the current COVID-19 pandemic. Public health threats, such as COVID-19, influenza and other highly communicable diseases or viruses, outbreaks of which have from time to time occurred in various parts of the world in which we operate could adversely impact our operations, as well as the operations of our customers, end users of our products, and our and their respective vendors, suppliers and other business partners. Any of these public health threats and related consequences could adversely affect our financial results. 31 Table of Contents COVID-19, a potentially deadly respiratory tract infection caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, and its variants, has spread rapidly and enveloped most of the world, causing a global public health crisis. On March 11, 2020, the COVID-19 outbreak was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization. The pandemic resulted in national and local governments in affected countries around the world implementing increasingly stringent measures to help control the spread of the virus, including quarantines and other emergency public health measures and substantial lockdown measures. Vaccine resistance, coupled with the emergence of fast-spreading variants and the potential waning effectiveness of vaccines, have introduced renewed uncertainty into whether additional measures will be implemented to combat the spread of COVID-19. There is considerable uncertainty regarding such measures and potential future measures. The measures implemented by various authorities in response to the COVID-19 pandemic have caused us to change our business practices, including those related to where employees work, the distance between employees in our facilities, limitations on in-person meetings between employees and with customers, potential customers, suppliers, service providers and stakeholders, as well as restrictions on business travel to domestic and international locations and to attend trade shows, technical conferences and other events. These restrictions have had, and future prevention and mitigation measures are also likely to have, an adverse impact on global economic conditions, which could further affect our operations. The considerable uncertainty regarding the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is likely to result in sustained market turmoil, which could also harm our business. These current and potential future measures that could restrict access to our facilities, limit support operations and place restrictions on our workforce, suppliers and other business partners have impacted and may further impact our workforce and operations, the operations of our customers and end users of our products, and those of our respective vendors, suppliers and other business partners. The disruptions to our operations caused by the COVID-19 pandemic may result in inefficiencies, delays and additional costs in our product development, sales, marketing, and customer service efforts that we cannot fully mitigate through remote or other alternative work arrangements. In addition, the severe global economic disruption, including recession, depression or other sustained adverse market impact caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, may cause our customers and end-users of our products to suffer significant economic hardship and potentially even go out of business, which could result in decreased demand for our products and harm our business. To the extent that the COVID-19 pandemic harms our business, it may also heighten many of the other risks discussed in this report. For instance, if the business impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic continue for an extended period, it could cause us to recognize impairments for goodwill and certain long-lived assets including amortizable intangible assets. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve and its duration and ultimate disruption to our business and the businesses of our customers and end-users, the overall demand for our products and the related financial impact to us, as well as any similar disruptions that may result from any future pandemic, epidemic or other outbreak of infectious disease, will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of the pandemic, its severity, the effectiveness of actions to contain the virus or treat its impact and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume, among others. The longer any such disruption continues, however, the more severe and adverse we would expect the effect to be on our business. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic has lessened or subsided, we may continue to experience harm to our business as a result of its global economic impact. As new information regarding the COVID-19 pandemic continues to emerge, it is difficult to predict the full extent to which the disease adversely impacts our financial performance. Additionally, weaker economic conditions generally could result in impairment in value of our tangible or intangible assets and our ability to raise additional capital, if needed. We received a Paycheck Protection Program loan, and our application for the PPP Loan could in the future be determined to have been impermissible or could result in damage to our reputation. In April 2020, we applied for and received an unsecured $1.6 million loan under the Paycheck Protection Program (the PPP Loan). In December 2020, the PPP Loan was forgiven in full. The Paycheck Protection Program was established under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act), and is administered by the U.S. Small Business Administration (the SBA). Our receipt of the PPP Loan or the forgiveness of the PPP Loan could result in adverse publicity. In addition, if we are later determined to have been ineligible to receive the PPP Loan or loan forgiveness, we may be subject to significant penalties, including significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, we could be required to repay the PPP Loan in its entirety, and our reputation could suffer. A review or audit by the SBA or other government entity or claims under the U.S. False Claims Act could consume significant financial and management resources. A significant portion of our revenue comes from licensing fees, which may vary period to period. License agreements for our interconnect IP are generally treated as ratable revenue, with revenue being recognized evenly over the license term. However, certain license agreements for our IP interconnect solutions are recognized as point in time revenue, including one agreement resulting in our recognizing revenue of $7.4 million in 2020. 32 Table of Contents Additionally, the majority of software license agreements for our IP deployment solutions are generally treated as point in time revenue at the start of the license period, so past revenue may not be indicative of the amount of revenue in any future period. Significant portions of our anticipated future revenue, therefore, will likely depend upon our success in attracting new customers, or continuing or expanding our relationships with existing customers. However, revenue recognized from licensing arrangements vary significantly from period to period, depending on the number and size of deals closed during a quarter, and is difficult to predict. In addition, as we expand our business into new markets, our licensing deals may be smaller in volume but greater in value in volume, which may further fluctuate our licensing revenue quarter to quarter. Our ability to succeed in our licensing efforts will depend on a variety of factors, including the market positioning, performance, quality, breadth and depth of our current and future IP interconnect and other solutions as well as our sales and marketing skills. Our failure to obtain future licensing customers would impede our future revenue growth and could materially harm our business. As a result of these and other factors, you should not rely on the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods, or any historical trends reflected in such results, as indications of our future revenue or operating performance. Fluctuations in our revenue and operating results could cause our stock price to decline and, as a result, you may lose some or all of your investment. Royalty rates could decrease for existing and future license agreements, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. Royalty payments to us under existing and future license agreements could be lower than currently anticipated for a variety of reasons. Average selling prices for semiconductor products generally decrease over time during the lifespan of a product. In addition, there is significant pressure to maintain low royalty rates in certain markets where the end product may have a low average sales price, such as many consumer electronics products. In addition, there is increasing downward pricing pressures in the semiconductor industry on end products incorporating our technology, especially end products for consumer electronics markets. As a result, notwithstanding the existence of a license agreement, our customers may demand that royalty rates for our products on future or renewal agreements be lower than our historic royalty rates. Furthermore, our competitors may lower the royalty rates for their comparable products to win market share which may force us to lower our royalty rates on future or renewal agreements as well. As a consequence of the above referenced factors, as well as unforeseen factors in the future, the royalty rates we receive for use of our technology could decrease with new or renewed customers, thereby decreasing future anticipated revenue and cash flow. Royalty revenue was 7.0% and 10.9% of our revenue for 2021 and 2020, respectively. Therefore, a significant decrease in our royalty revenue could materially adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, royalty rates may be negatively affected by macroeconomic trends, including from global semiconductor supply chain issues (including from shortages in the availability of the supply of chips in several semiconductor sectors and applications), the recent COVID-19 pandemic and its world effects and changes in products mix. Furthermore, consolidation among our customers may increase the leverage of our existing customers to extract concessions from us in royalty rates. Changing currency exchange rates could harm our business. We have operations and assets in the U.S. as well as foreign jurisdictions, and we prepare our consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars, but a portion of our earnings and expenditures are denominated in other currencies. We therefore must translate our foreign assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. Consequently, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may negatively affect the value of these items in our financial statements. In addition, since many of our sales in foreign jurisdictions are denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may effectively increase the price of our products in the currency of the jurisdiction in which the sale took place and may result in our products becoming too expensive for non-U.S. customers who do not conduct their business in U.S. dollars. Furthermore, currency exchange rates have been especially volatile in the recent past, and these currency fluctuations may make it difficult for us to predict our results of operations. If the volume of our international operations increases and foreign currency exchange rates change, the impact to our consolidated statements of operations could be significant and may affect the comparability of operating results. The impact from foreign currency transactions during 2021 and 2020 was approximately $0.6 million and insignificant, respectively. We do not believe a 10% increase or decrease in foreign exchange rates would have resulted in a material impact to our operating results. To the extent we fail to manage our foreign currency exposure adequately, we may suffer losses in the value of our net foreign currency investment, and our business may be harmed. In particular, in light of the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the resulting tensions between the European Union, other European countries, as well as the United States, with Russia, any resulting material change to the valuation of the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely impact our operating results. 33 Table of Contents We have made acquisitions and in the future expect to pursue acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products or technologies, joint ventures and other strategic transactions that involve numerous risks and could disrupt and harm our business. As part of our business strategy, we make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, such as our acquisition of Magillem, products and technologies and enter into joint ventures and other strategic relationships in the ordinary course. Our ability to grow our revenue, earnings and cash flow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at acceptable prices, realize anticipated synergies and make appropriate investments that support our long-term strategy. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions at rates similar to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate and the trading price of our common stock. Promising acquisitions and investments are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including high valuations, competition among prospective buyers, the availability of affordable funding in the capital markets and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain applicable antitrust and other regulatory approvals on a timely basis and on acceptable terms. In addition, competition for acquisitions and investment may result in higher purchase prices. Changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or instability in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions and investments on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, even if we are able to consummate acquisitions and enter into joint ventures and other strategic relationships, these transactions and relationships, including our acquisition of Magillem, present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs, negatively affect our growth rate and the trading price of our common stock, and may harm our business. In addition, our Magillem acquisition as well as any acquisition, investment, joint venture or other strategic transaction we may enter into in the future, involve a number of additional financial, accounting, managerial, operational, legal, regulatory and other risks, which may include, among others: Any business, technology, service or product that we acquire or invest in could under-perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid or not perform in accordance with our anticipated timetable, or we could fail to operate any such business profitably. We may incur or assume significant debt in connection with our acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic relationships, which could also cause a deterioration of our credit ratings, result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense and diminish our future access to the capital markets. Alternatively, we may issue additional equity securities, which could dilute your ownership and voting power. Acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic relationships could cause our financial results to differ from our own or the investment communitys expectations in any given period, or over the long-term challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization. Pre-closing and post-closing earnings charges could adversely impact operating results in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period. Acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic relationships could create demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems that we are unable to effectively address. We could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and financial and other controls and systems and retaining key employees and customers. We may be unable to achieve cost savings or other synergies anticipated in connection with an acquisition, joint venture or other strategic relationship. We may assume unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from the acquired companys or investees activities and the realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position and/or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations. In connection with acquisitions and joint ventures, we often enter into post-closing financial arrangements such as purchase price adjustments, earn-out obligations and indemnification obligations, which may have unpredictable financial results. As a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded significant goodwill and other assets on our consolidated balance sheet and if we are not able to realize the value of these assets, or if the fair value of our investments declines, we may be required to incur impairment charges. We may have interests that diverge from those of our joint venture partners or other strategic partners and we may not be able to direct the management and operations of the joint venture or other strategic relationship in the manner we believe is most appropriate, exposing us to additional risk. 34 Table of Contents Investing in or making loans to early-stage companies often entails a high degree of risk, and we may not achieve the strategic, technological, financial or commercial benefits we anticipate; we may lose our investment or fail to recoup our loan; or our investment may be illiquid for a greater-than-expected period of time. Furthermore, potential acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and other strategic transactions, whether or not consummated, may divert our managements attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. This, and any of the risks set forth above, could harm our business. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited and could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. Our ability to operate and expand our business depends on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends on cash flow generated by our business and equity or other applicable financing arrangements. We believe that our cash flow from operations, existing cash, and the net proceeds from our initial public offering will satisfy our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we have based this estimate on our current operating plans and expectations, which are subject to change, and cannot assure you that that our existing resources will be sufficient to meet our future liquidity needs. We may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions or other strategic transactions and/or unforeseen circumstances. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: market acceptance of our semiconductor IP and other solutions, and our IP deployment solutions; the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; the existence of opportunities for expansion; and access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain additional debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations and our ability to incur additional debt or engage in other capital-raising activities. We have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing and there is no assurance that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow and support our business and respond to business opportunities and challenges could be significantly limited. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth, and we may need to incur significant expenditures to address the additional operational and control requirements of our growth, either of which could harm our business and operating results. In order to succeed in executing our business plan, we will need to manage our growth effectively as we make significant investments in research and development and sales and marketing and expand our operations and infrastructure both domestically and internationally. In addition, in connection with operating as a public company, we will incur additional significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. If our revenue does not increase to offset these increases in our expenses, we may not achieve or maintain profitability in future periods. To continue to grow and to meet our ongoing obligations as a public company, we must continue to expand our operational, engineering, accounting and financial systems, procedures, controls and other internal management systems. This may require substantial managerial and financial resources, and our efforts in this regard may not be successful. Our current systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations and we may be unable to meet reporting obligation deadlines under the Exchange Act. Unless our growth results in an increase in our revenue that is proportionate to the increase in our costs associated with this growth, our operating margins will be adversely affected. If we fail to adequately manage our growth, improve our operational, financial and management information systems, or effectively motivate and manage our new and future employees, it could harm our business. 35 Table of Contents We depend on key and highly skilled personnel to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and market our products could be harmed, which in turn could adversely affect our financial results. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our executive officers, managers and skilled personnel, including our development engineers. In particular, we are highly dependent on the services of K. Charles Janac, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, who has been critical in the development and growth of our business and strategic direction, and we do not have key person insurance. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team or other key personnel, which could disrupt our business. Generally, our employees are not bound by obligations that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. Moreover, our employees are generally not subject to non-competition agreements. Given these limitations, we may not be able to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel necessary for our business. In addition, we recruit from a limited pool of engineers with expertise in SoC design and the competition for such personnel can be intense. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or other key personnel, the loss of access to certain jurisdictions in the event of geopolitical conflict or changes in regulatory frameworks, or our inability to locate suitable or qualified replacements could be significantly detrimental to our product development efforts and could harm our business. In addition, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel, including certain foreign nationals who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents, many of whom are highly skilled and constitute an important part of our U.S. workforce, particularly in the areas of engineering and product development. Our ability to hire and retain these employees and their ability to remain and work in the U.S. are impacted by laws and regulations, as well as by procedures and enforcement practices of various government agencies. Changes in immigration laws, regulations or procedures may adversely affect our ability to hire or retain such workers, increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our ability to deliver our products and services, any of which would harm our business. Volatility in, or lack of performance of, our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Employees may be more likely to terminate their employment with us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their vested options or restricted stock units have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or, conversely, if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the trading price of our common stock. If we are unable to retain our employees, our business could be harmed. Our management team has limited experience managing a public company. Many members of our management team have limited experience managing a publicly-traded company, interacting with public company investors and complying with the increasingly complex laws pertaining to public companies. Our management team may not successfully or efficiently manage us as a public company subject to significant regulatory oversight and reporting obligations under the federal securities laws and the continuous scrutiny of securities analysts and investors. These new obligations and constituents require significant attention from our senior management and could divert their attention away from the day-to-day management of our business, which could harm our business. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Our corporate headquarters are located in an area that is an active earthquake zone. In the event of a major earthquake, hurricane or other forms of catastrophic event such as fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack or disease outbreak, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our product development, breaches of data security, or loss of critical data, any of which could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations. 36 Table of Contents Risks Related to Intellectual Property, Information Technology and Data Security and Privacy If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and inventions through patents and other IP rights, our ability to compete successfully and our financial results could be adversely impacted. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and innovations, particularly those relating to the design of our products, through patents, trade secrets and other IP rights. As of December 31, 2021, we had 98 total issued patents, pending patent applications and non-expired provisional patent applications worldwide. Of these, we had 35 issued patents, 34 of which are U.S. issued patents and one is a U.K. issued patent. The 35 issued patents generally expire between 2035 and 2041. As of December 31, 2021, we had 63 pending non-provisional and provisional patent application filings, including 40 in the United States, nine in Europe, eight in China, four in Korea and two in Japan. Maintenance of patent portfolios, particularly outside of the United States, is expensive, and the process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and costly. While we intend to maintain our current portfolio of patents and to continue to prosecute our currently pending patent applications and file future patent applications when appropriate, the value of these actions may not exceed their expense. Existing patents and those that may be issued from any pending or future applications may be subject to challenges, invalidation or circumvention, and the rights granted under our patents may not provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. In addition, the protection afforded under the patent laws of one country may not be the same as that in other countries. This means, for example, that our right to exclusively commercialize a product in those countries where we have patent rights for that product can vary on a country-by-country basis. We also may not have the same scope of patent protection in every country where we do business. Additionally, it is difficult and costly to monitor the use of our IP. It may be the case that our IP is already being infringed and infringement may occur in the future without our knowledge. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our IP rights. While it is our policy to protect and defend our rights to our IP, we cannot predict whether steps taken by us to enforce and protect our IP rights will be adequate to prevent infringement, misappropriation, or other violations of our IP rights. Any inability to meaningfully enforce our IP rights could harm our ability to compete. Moreover, in any lawsuit we bring to enforce our IP rights, a court may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on grounds that our IP rights do not cover the technology in question. Further, in such proceedings, the defendant could counterclaim that our IP is invalid or unenforceable and the court may agree, in which case we could lose valuable IP rights. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could materially harm our business and hurt our competitive advantage. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and inventions through trade secrets, our competitive position and financial results could be adversely affected. As noted above, we seek to protect our proprietary technology and innovations, particularly those relating to our products, as patents, trade secrets and other forms of IP. Additionally, while software and other forms of our proprietary works may be protected under copyright law, in some cases we have chosen not to register any copyrights in these works, and instead, primarily rely on protecting our software as a trade secret. In the United States, trade secrets are protected under the federal Economic Espionage Act of 1996 and the Defend Trade Secrets Act of 2016 (the Defend Trade Secrets Act), and under state law, with many states having adopted the Uniform Trade Secrets Act (the UTSA) and several of which that have not. In addition to these federal and state laws inside the United States, under the World Trade Organizations Trade Related-Aspects of IP Rights Agreement (the TRIPS Agreement), trade secrets are to be protected by World Trade Organization member states as confidential information. Under the UTSA and other trade secret laws, protection of our proprietary information as trade secrets requires us to take steps to prevent unauthorized disclosure to third parties or misappropriation by third parties. In addition, the full benefit of the remedies available under the Defend Trade Secrets Act requires specific language and notice requirements present in the relevant agreements, which may not be present in all of our agreements. While we require our officers, employees, consultants, distributors, and existing and prospective customers and collaborators to sign confidentiality agreements and take various security measures to protect unauthorized disclosure and misappropriation of our trade secrets, we cannot assure or predict that these measures will be sufficient. The semiconductor industry is generally subject to high turnover of employees, so the risk of trade secret misappropriation may be amplified. If any of our trade secrets are subject to unauthorized disclosure or are otherwise misappropriated by third parties, our competitive position may be materially and adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents Our ability to compete successfully depends in part on our ability to commercialize our IP solutions without infringing the patent, trade secret or other IP rights of others. To the same extent that we seek to protect our technology and inventions with patents, trade secrets and other IP rights, our competitors and other third parties do the same for their technology and inventions. We have no means of knowing the content of patent applications filed by third parties until they are published. It is also difficult and costly to continuously monitor the IP portfolios of our competitors to ensure our technologies do not violate the IP rights of any third parties. The semiconductor industry is ripe with patent assertion entities and is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other IP rights. From time to time, we receive communications from third parties that allege that our products or technologies infringe their patent or other IP rights. As a public company with an increased profile and visibility, we may receive similar communications in the future. Lawsuits or other proceedings resulting from allegations of infringement could subject us to significant liability for damages, invalidate our proprietary rights and harm our business. In the event that any third-party succeeds in asserting a valid claim against us or any of our customers, we could be forced to do one or more of the following: discontinue selling access to certain technologies that contain the allegedly infringing IP which would result in a decline in our revenue and could result in breach of contract claim by our affected customers and damage to our reputation; stop receiving payment from a customer that can no longer sell the end-product if it contains allegedly infringing IP; seek to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible; incur significant legal expenses; pay substantial monetary damages to the party whose IP rights we may be found to be infringing; and/or we or our customers could be required to seek licenses to the infringed technology that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If a third-party causes us to discontinue the use of any of our technologies, we could be required to design around those technologies. This could be costly and time consuming and could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Any significant impairments of our IP rights from any litigation we face could harm our business and our ability to compete in our industry. We may not be able to continue to obtain licenses to third-party software and IP on reasonable terms or at all, which may disrupt our business and harm our financial results. We license third-party software and other IP for use in product research and development and, in several instances, for inclusion in our products such as our license with Qualcomm for FlexNoC. We also license third-party software, including the software of our competitors, to test the interoperability of our products with other industry products and in connection with our professional services. Our third-party licenses typically limit our use of IP to specific uses and for specific time periods, and include other contractual obligations with which we must comply. Moreover, certain IP rights may be licensed to us on a non-exclusive basis, and accordingly, the owners of such IP are free to license such rights to third parties, including our competitors, on terms that may be superior to those offered to us, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. These licenses may need to be renegotiated or renewed from time to time, or we may need to obtain new licenses in the future. For example, we may be required to renegotiate or seek a waiver to or consent under our license with Qualcomm with respect to our FlexNoc product in the event of certain changes of control (as defined in our agreements with Qualcomm) and there can be no guarantee we would be successful in such endeavor. Such provision could prevent us from pursuing a robust sales process in the event of a sale of the company, if Qualcomm refuses to provide consent or waive such change in control provision. In such an event, a change in control could cause us to lose our license with Qualcomm and our valuation could be adversely affected. See BusinessMaterial AgreementQualcomm Agreements. Third parties may stop adequately supporting or maintaining their technology, or they or their technology may be acquired by our competitors. If we are unable to obtain licenses to these third-party software and IP on reasonable terms or at all, we may not be able to sell or support the affected products, our customers use of the products may be interrupted, and/or our product development processes and professional services offerings may be disrupted, which could in turn harm our financial results, our customers, and our reputation. Further, if we or our third-party licensors were to breach any material term of a license, such a breach could, among other things, prompt costly litigation, result in the license being invalidated and or result in fines and other damages. If any of the following were to occur, it could harm our business and our reputation. 38 Table of Contents We also cannot be certain that our licensors are not infringing the IP rights of others or that our licensors have sufficient rights to the IP to grant us the applicable licenses. Although we seek to mitigate this risk contractually, we may not be able to sufficiently limit our potential liability. If we are unable to obtain or maintain rights to any of this IP because of IP infringement claims brought by third parties against our licensors or against us, our ability to develop, maintain and support our products and technology incorporating that IP could be severely limited and our business could be harmed. Furthermore, regardless of outcome, infringement claims may require us to use significant resources and may divert managements attention. Some of our products and technology, including those we acquire, may include software licensed under open-source licenses. Use and distribution of open-source software, where applicable, may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open-source licensors generally do not provide support, warranties, indemnification or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. To the extent that our technology may in the future depend upon the successful operation of open-source software, any undetected errors or defects in this open-source software could prevent the deployment or impair the functionality of such technologies and injure our reputation. Moreover, some open-source software licenses, if applicable, could require users who distribute open-source software as part of their proprietary software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and make available any derivative works or modifications of the open-source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. If we were to combine our proprietary software with open-source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to comply with such license terms. Although we have tools and processes to monitor and restrict our use of open-source software, the risks associated with open-source usage may not be eliminated and may, if not properly addressed, result in unanticipated obligations that could harm our business. Any dispute regarding our IP may require us to indemnify certain customers, the cost of which could severely harm our business. In any potential dispute involving our patents or other IP, our customers could also become the target of litigation. While we generally do not indemnify our customers, some of our agreements provide for indemnification, and some require us to provide technical support and information to a customer that is involved in litigation involving use of our technology. In addition, we may be exposed to indemnification obligations, risks and liabilities that were unknown at the time that we acquired assets or businesses for our operations. Any of these indemnification and support obligations could result in substantial and material expenses. In addition to the time and expense required for us to indemnify or supply such support to our customers, a customers development, marketing and sales of licensed semiconductors, mobile communications and data security technologies could be severely disrupted or shut down as a result of litigation, which in turn could severely harm our business as a result of lower or no royalty payments. 39 Table of Contents We have been and in the future may be subject to incidents, disruptions or breaches of our information technology systems that could damage our reputation and our business, expose us to liability and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, potentially irreparably. In conducting our business, we routinely collect and store sensitive data, including proprietary technology and information about our business and our customers, suppliers and business partners, including our customers proprietary chip design architecture information, personal information and sensitive information owned by our customers. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Increasingly, companies are subject to a wide variety of attacks on their networks and information technology infrastructure on an ongoing basis. Traditional computer hackers, malicious code (such as viruses, and worms), phishing attempts, employee theft or misuse, denial of service attacks, and sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors engage in intrusions and attacks that create risks for our (and our third-party service providers) products and services, internal networks, infrastructure, and cloud deployed products and the information each stores and processes (such products, services, networks, infrastructure, and cloud resources collectively Resources). Although we have implemented security measures to prevent such attacks, our Resources have been and may in the future be breached due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, a combination of these, or otherwise, and as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our Resources. We have been (and our third-party service providers), and may in the future be, subject to such disruptions or security breaches of our secured network caused by caused by computer viruses, ransomware, supply chain attacks and worldwide and/or regional shortages in the availability of chip supply in several semiconductor sectors and applications, illegal hacking, criminal fraud or impersonation, acts of vandalism or terrorism or actions or failure to act by our employees or other with access to our network. For example, in 2019 a customer paid an invoice to a fraudulent third party and such amount could not be recovered. Our security measures, those of our third-party service providers, or our customers may not timely detect or prevent such security breaches. The costs to us to reduce the risk of or alleviate cyber security breaches and vulnerabilities could be significant. Any type of security breach, attack, unauthorized access to or misuse of data, whether experienced by us or an associated third-party, could harm our reputation or deter existing or prospective customers from using our products and applications, increase our operating expenses in order to contain and remediate the incident, expose us to unbudgeted or uninsured liability, disrupt our operations, divert management focus away from other priorities, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, result in the imposition of penalties and fines under state, federal and foreign laws or by payment networks and adversely affect our continued payment network registration and financial institution sponsorship. We would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability under laws, regulations and contracts that protect the privacy and security of personal information. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, or the CCPA, imposes a private right of action for security breaches that could lead to some form of remedy including regulatory scrutiny, fines, private right of action settlements, and other consequences. Where a security incident involves a breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alternation, unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, personal data in respect of which we are a controller or processor under the GDPR or U.K. GDPR (as defined below), this could result in fines of up to 20.0 million or 4% of annual global turnover under the GDPR or 17.5 million and 4% of total annual revenue in the case of the U.K. GDPR. We may also be required to notify such breaches to regulators and/or individuals which may result in us incurring additional costs. Moreover, any such compromise of our information security or that of our third parties could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized publication or other exploitation of our confidential business or proprietary information or personal information or that of other parties with which we do business, an interruption in our operations, the unauthorized transfer of cash or other assets, the unauthorized release of customer or employee data or a violation of privacy or other laws. In addition, computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products, or that otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities, and any such attack, if successful, could expose us to liability to customer claims. Any of the foregoing could irreparably damage our reputation and business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, notifications and follow-up actions related to a security incident could impact our reputation and cause us to incur significant costs, including legal expenses and remediation costs. To the extent that any disruption or security incident were to result in any loss, destruction, or alteration of, or damage or unauthorized access to, our data or other information that is processed or maintained on our behalf, or inappropriate disclosure of or dissemination of any such information, we could be exposed to litigation and governmental investigations, the further development and commercialization of our products could be delayed, and we could be subject to significant fines or penalties for any noncompliance with certain state, federal and/or international privacy and security laws. 40 Table of Contents Our insurance policies may not be adequate to compensate us for the potential losses arising from any such disruption in or failure or security breach of our systems or third-party systems where information important to our business operations or commercial development is stored. In addition, such insurance may not be available to us in the future on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Further, our insurance may not cover all claims made against us and could have high deductibles in any event, and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management attention. We are subject to governmental regulation and other legal obligations, particularly related to privacy, data protection and information security, and consumer protection laws across different markets where we conduct our business. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. We are subject to a number of legal requirements, contractual obligations and industry standards regarding security, data protection and privacy and any failure to comply with these requirements, obligations or standards could harm our reputation and business. These include the GDPR and applicable United States federal, California and other jurisdictional privacy laws and regulations. In the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate, we are subject to various privacy, data protection and consumer protection laws and related regulations. If we are found to have breached any such laws or regulations in any such jurisdiction, we may be subject to enforcement actions that require us to change our business practices in a manner which may negatively impact our revenue, as well as expose us to litigation, fines, civil and/or criminal penalties and adverse publicity that could cause our customers to lose trust in us, negatively impacting our reputation and business in a manner that harms our financial position. As part of our business, we collect information about individuals, also referred to as personal data, and other potentially sensitive and/or regulated data from our customers. Laws and regulations in the United States and around the world restrict how personal information is collected, processed, stored, used and disclosed, as well as set standards for its security, implement notice requirements regarding privacy practices, and provide individuals with certain rights regarding the use, disclosure and sale of their protected personal information. In the United States, both the federal and various state governments have adopted or are considering, laws, or regulations for the collection, distribution, use and storage of information collected from or about individuals or their devices. A range of enforcement agencies exist at both the state and federal levels that can enforce these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may apply to our activities, including, for example, state data breach notification laws, state personal data privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws. For example, California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) which became operative on January 1, 2020 and became enforceable by the California Attorney General on July 1, 2020, along with related regulations which came into force on August 14, 2020. Additionally, although not effective until January 1, 2023, the California Privacy Rights Act, or the CPRA, which expands upon the CCPA, was passed on November 3, 2020. The CCPA requires (and the CPRA will require) covered companies to, among other things, provide new disclosures to California consumers, and affords such consumers new privacy rights such as the ability to opt-out of certain sales of personal information and expanded rights to access and require deletion of their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing, and receive detailed information about how their personal information is collected, used and shared. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for security breaches that may increase security breach litigation. Further, Virginia enacted the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act, or the CDPA, another comprehensive state privacy law, that will also be effective January 1, 2023. Also in 2021, Colorado enacted the Colorado Privacy Act, or the CPA, which goes into effect July 1, 2023. The CCPA, CPRA, CDPA, and CPA may increase our compliance costs and potential liability, particularly in the event of a data breach, and could harm our business, including how we use personal information. A number of other proposals exist for new federal and state privacy legislation that, if passed, could increase our potential liability, increase our compliance costs and harm our business. 41 Table of Contents Several foreign jurisdictions, including the European Union (EU) and United Kingdom (UK), have laws and regulations which are more restrictive in certain respects than those in the United States. For example, the EU General Data Protection Regulation (EU GDPR) and the UK General Data Protection Regulation and the UK Data Protection Act 2018 (UK GDPR) (collectively, the GDPR) includes stringent operational requirements for the use of personal data. The European and UK regime also includes laws which, among other things, require EU member states and the UK to regulate marketing by electronic means and the use of cookies and similar technologies. The GDPR has resulted in, and will continue to result in, significant compliance burdens and costs for companies with customers and/or operations in the European Union and the UK. The GDPR, and national implementing legislation in each member state, imposes a strict data protection compliance regime including: providing detailed disclosures about how personal data is collected and processed; demonstrating that an appropriate legal basis is in place or otherwise exists to justify data processing activities; granting new rights for data subjects in regard to their personal data (including the right to be forgotten and the right to data portability), as well as enhancing current rights (e.g., data subject access requests); introducing the obligation to notify data protection regulators or supervisory authorities (and in certain cases, affected individuals) of significant data breaches; defining for the first time pseudonymized (i.e., key-coded) data; imposing limitations on retention of personal data; maintaining a record of data processing; and complying with the principal of accountability and the obligation to demonstrate compliance through policies, procedures, training and audit. If our privacy or data security measures fail to comply with applicable current or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations, and enforcement notices requiring us to change the way we use personal data or our marketing practices. For example, under the GDPR we may be subject to fines of up to 20 million / 17.5 million or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual group turnover of the preceding financial year (whichever is higher) for major violations. In addition to the foregoing, a breach of the GDPR could result in regulatory investigations, reputational damage, orders to cease/ change our processing of our data, enforcement notices, and/ or assessment notices (for a compulsory audit). We may also face civil claims including representative actions and other class action type litigation (where individuals have suffered harm), potentially amounting to significant compensation or damages liabilities, as well as associated costs, diversion of internal resources, reputational harm and a potential loss of business. We are also subject to European Union rules with respect to cross-border transfers of personal data out of the European Economic Area (EEA) and the UK. Recent legal developments in Europe have created complexity and uncertainty regarding transfers of personal data from the EEA and the UK to the United States. Most recently, on July 16, 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) invalidated the EU-US Privacy Shield Framework (Privacy Shield) under which personal data could be transferred from the EEA to US entities who had self-certified under the Privacy Shield scheme. While the CJEU upheld the adequacy of the standard contractual clauses (a standard form of contract approved by the European Commission as an adequate personal data transfer mechanism, and potential alternative to the Privacy Shield), it made clear that reliance on them alone may not necessarily be sufficient in all circumstances. Use of the standard contractual clauses must now be assessed on a case-by-case basis taking into account the legal regime applicable in the destination country, and in particular applicable surveillance laws and rights of individuals and additional measures and/or contractual provisions may need to be put in place, however, the nature of these additional measures is currently uncertain. The CJEU went on to state that if a competent supervisory authority believes that the standard contractual clauses cannot be complied with in the destination country and the required level of protection cannot be secured by other means, such supervisory authority is under an obligation to suspend or prohibit that transfer. In addition, the European Commission has published revised standard contractual clauses for data transfers from the EEA: the revised clauses must be used for relevant new data transfers from September 27, 2021; existing standard contractual clauses arrangements must be migrated to the revised clauses by December 27, 2022. We will be required to implement the revised applicable standard contractual clauses within the relevant time frames. In addition, the UKs Information Commissioners Office has published new data transfer standard contracts for transfers from the UK under the UK GDPR. This new documentation will be mandatory for relevant data transfers from September 21, 2022; existing standard contractual clauses arrangements must be migrated to the new documentation by March 21, 2024. We will be required to implement the latest UK data transfer documentation for data transfers subject to the UK GDPR, within the relevant time frames. These recent developments may require us to review and amend the legal mechanisms by which we make and/ or receive personal data transfers to/ in the U.S. As supervisory authorities issue further guidance on personal data export mechanisms, including circumstances where the standard contractual clauses cannot be used, and/or start taking enforcement action, we could suffer additional costs, complaints and/or regulatory investigations or fines. 42 Table of Contents Further, the exit of the UK from the EU, often referred to as Brexit, has created uncertainty with regard to data protection regulation in the UK. The European Commission has adopted an adequacy decision in favor of the UK, enabling data transfers from EU member states to the UK without additional safeguards. However, the UK adequacy decision will automatically expire in June 2025 unless the European Commission re-assesses and renews/ extends that decision, and remains under review by the Commission during this period. In September 2021, the UK government launched a consultation on its proposals for wide-ranging reform of UK data protection laws following Brexit. There is a risk that any material changes which are made to the UK data protection regime could result in the Commission reviewing the UK adequacy decision, and the UK losing its adequacy decision if the Commission deems the UK to no longer provide adequate protection for personal data. The relationship between the UK and the EU in relation to certain aspects of data protection law remains unclear, and it is unclear how UK data protection laws and regulations will develop in the medium to longer term, and how data transfers to and from the UK will be regulated in the long term. These changes will lead to additional costs and increase our overall risk exposure. Restrictions on the collection, use, sharing or disclosure of personal information or additional requirements and liability for security and data integrity could require us to modify our solutions and features, possibly in a material manner, could limit our ability to develop new products and features and could subject us to increased compliance obligations and regulatory scrutiny. Although we make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, our interpretations and such measures may have been or may prove to be insufficient or incorrect. Any failure to comply with any data protection laws and/or regulations that results in a data security breach could require notifications to data subjects and/or owners under federal, state and/or international data breach notification laws and regulations. The effects of any applicable U.S. state, U.S. federal and international laws and regulations that are currently in effect or that may go into effect in the future, are significant and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and potential liability in an effort to comply with such laws and regulations. Allegations of non-compliance, whether or not true, could be costly, time consuming, distracting to management, and cause reputational harm. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with one another or inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our products and services. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with these and other data protection and privacy laws and regulations could result in regulatory scrutiny and increased exposure to the risk of litigation or the imposition of consent orders, resolution agreements, requirements to take particular actions with respect to training, policies or other activities, and civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could harm our business. In addition, we or our third-party service providers could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our products and services, which could harm our or our third-party service providers business. Any of the foregoing could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales, and harm our business. Risks Related to Legal, Regulatory, Accounting and Tax Matters Our failure to comply with the large body of laws and regulations to which we are subject could materially harm our business. We are subject to regulation by various governmental agencies in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations (and the government agency responsible for their enforcement in the United States) cover: radio frequency emission regulatory activities (Federal Communications Commission); anti-trust regulatory activities (Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice); consumer protection laws (Federal Trade Commission); import/export regulatory activities (Department of Commerce); product safety regulatory activities (Consumer Products Safety Commission); worker safety (Occupational Safety and Health Administration); environmental protection (Environmental Protection Agency and similar state and local agencies); employment matters (Equal Employment Opportunity Commission); and tax and other regulations by a variety of regulatory authorities in each of the areas in which we conduct business. In certain jurisdictions, regulatory requirements in one or more of these areas may be more stringent than in the United States. 43 Table of Contents In the area of employment matters, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and foreign employment and labor laws and regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act, the WARN Act and other regulations related to working conditions, wage and hour pay, overtime pay, employee benefits, anti-discrimination, and termination of employment. We are subject to local employment statutes and regulations in other jurisdictions. Noncompliance with any of these applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, enforcement actions, fines, damages, penalties, or injunctions. In certain instances, former employees have brought claims against us and we expect that we will encounter similar actions against us in the future. An adverse outcome in any such litigation could require us to pay damages, attorneys fees and costs. These enforcement actions could harm our reputation and business. If any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business could be harmed. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of managements attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. Our failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, other applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, and applicable anti-money laundering laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We have extensive international operations and a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States. Our operations are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the FCPA), the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. 201, the U.S. Travel Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, as well as the anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and anti-money laundering laws in the countries where we do business. Anti-corruption laws are interpreted broadly and prohibit companies and their employees and agents from promising, authorizing, making, or offering, soliciting, or accepting, directly or indirectly, improper payments or other benefits to or from any person whether in the public or private sector. The FCPA also requires publicly traded companies to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent their transactions, and to have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. As we increase our international sales and business, our risks under these laws may increase. Though we maintain policies, internal controls and other measures reasonably designed to promote compliance with applicable anticorruption, anti-bribery laws, and anti-money laundering laws and regulations, our employees or agents may nevertheless engage in improper conduct for which we might be held responsible. Any violations of these laws, or even allegations of such violations, can lead to an investigation and/or enforcement action, which could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction, and lead to significant costs and expenses, including legal fees. If we, or our employees or agents acting on our behalf, are found to have engaged in practices that violate these laws and regulations, we could suffer severe fines and penalties, profit disgorgement, injunctions on future conduct, securities litigation, bans on transacting government business, delisting from securities exchanges and other consequences that may harm our business. In addition, our reputation, our revenue or our stock price could be adversely affected if we become the subject of any negative publicity related to actual or potential violations of any of these laws and regulations. 44 Table of Contents We are subject to government regulation, including import, export and economic sanctions laws and regulations that may expose us to liability and increase our costs. Certain of our products, including our IP interconnect and other solutions and technology are subject to U.S. export controls, including the U.S. Department of Commerces Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Controls. These regulations may limit the export of our products and technology, and provision of our services outside of the United States, or may require export authorizations, including by license, a license exception, or other appropriate government authorizations and conditions, including annual or semi-annual reporting. Export control and economic sanctions laws may also include prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain of our products to embargoed or sanctioned countries, regions, governments, persons, and entities. In addition, various countries regulate the importation of certain products, through import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products. The exportation, re-exportation, and importation of our products and technology and the provision of services, including by our partners, must comply with these laws or else we may be adversely affected through reputational harm, government investigations, penalties, and a denial or curtailment of our ability to export our products and technology. Complying with export control and sanctions laws may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Although we take precautions to prevent our products and technology from being provided in violation of such laws, our products and technology have previously been, and could in the future be, provided inadvertently in violation of such laws, despite the precautions we take. If we are found to be in violation of U.S. sanctions or export control laws, it could result in substantial fines and penalties for us and for the individuals working for us. Changes in export or import laws or sanctions policies may adversely impact our operations, delay the introduction and sale of our products in international markets, or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products and technology to certain countries, regions, governments, persons, or entities altogether, which could harm our business. We will lose sales if we are unable to obtain government authorization to export certain of our products and services, and we will be subject to legal and regulatory consequences if we do not comply with applicable export control laws and regulations. Exports of certain of our IP interconnect and other solutions are subject to export controls imposed by the U.S. government and administered by the U.S. Departments of State and Commerce. In certain instances, these regulations may require pre-shipment authorization from the administering department. For products subject to the EAR, administered by the Department of Commerces Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS), the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product, the final destination, the identity of the end user and whether a license exception might apply. Certain of our solutions are subject to EAR. Obtaining export licenses can be difficult, costly and time-consuming and we may not always be successful in obtaining necessary export licenses, and our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products or limitations on our ability to export or sell our products imposed by these laws may harm our international and domestic revenue. Noncompliance with these laws could have negative consequences, including government investigations, penalties and reputational harm. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. We derived 0.1%, and 31.2% of our revenue in 2021 and 2020, respectively, from parties that are currently subject to the Entity List of the EAR (a list of entities to which the transfer of EAR-controlled technology or software is generally prohibited absent a U.S. export license), including Chongxin Bada Technology Development Co., Ltd. (Bada), HiSilicon Technologies Co. Ltd. (HiSilicon), and SZ DJI Technology Co., Ltd. Current and future business with these entities may be limited in scope or suspended entirely in order to comply with the EAR and as a result, our revenue could be adversely impacted. Regulatory changes concerning the export classification of our products, changes to the applicability of the EAR to certain product offerings, or the addition of new entities to the restricted party lists can further increase the scope of export restrictions applicable to our business. Failure to obtain export licenses for our products or having one or more of our customers be restricted from receiving exports from us could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. In addition, the U.S. federal government has increased its Entity List materially in recent years, which affects the range and number of customers, including Chinese customers available to license our products and technology. This raises an additional risk that China and/or other jurisdictions may enact retaliatory legislation or regulations that may raise similar adverse risks. As reflected in other Risk Factors, such risks may increase if additional Chinese entities are placed on the Entity List due, among other things, to their business with Russia in light of Chinas stance and actions taken relating to Russia-Ukraine tensions and hostilities. 45 Table of Contents In March 2021, we submitted an initial voluntary self-disclosure (VSD) to the BIS, noting potential violations of the EAR. On July 23, 2021, we submitted a final VSD to BIS after completing our review. In our VSD submission, we identified discrete transactions with two customers. The first customer is Bada, a customer to which we provided EAR-regulated know-how after BIS added Bada to the Entity List and without authorization under the EAR. We no longer have a relationship with or support this customer. The second customer is HiSilicon. We entered into a contract with, and provided products to, HiSilicon the same week in 2019 that BIS added HiSilicon to the Entity List. This may have resulted in an inadvertent violation of the EAR due to the timing of the Entity List restrictions. While we currently maintain a business relationship with HiSilicon to collect royalties for products that had been licensed to HiSilicon in earlier years , we no longer provide HiSilicon with products or ongoing support. We have taken and continue to take remedial measures to help prevent similar situations from occurring in the future. Our VSD is currently under review at BIS. We face risks associated with doing business in China. We derived 27.1% and 44.9% of our revenue in 2021 and 2020, respectively, from customers located in China. As a result, the economic, political, legal and social conditions in China could harm our business. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. Various factors may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. In addition, the legal system in China has inherent uncertainties that may limit the legal protections available in the event of any claims or disputes that we have with third parties, including our ability to protect the IP we develop in China or elsewhere. As Chinas legal system is still evolving, the interpretation of many laws, regulations and rules is not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit the remedies available in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Some of the other risks related to doing business in China include: The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive, transfer and use our cash effectively. Increased uncertainties related to the enforcement of IP rights including any IP rights that we may license to a Chinese (or other emerging jurisdiction) entity, including any joint ventures we may form. Increased uncertainties relating to Chinese regulation of exports of products and technology to and from China. Increased and rapidly changing export and related trade regulations and restrictions imposed by U.S. and Chinese legislation, executive actions and regulations. Difficulty of travel to and from China (and to and from United States) arising from or related to the COVID-19 pandemic or any future pandemic. The Chinese government may favor its local businesses and make it more difficult for foreign businesses to operate in China on an equal footing, or create generally difficult conditions for foreign headquartered businesses to operate. Increased uncertainties related to the enforcement of contracts with certain parties. More restrictive rules on foreign investment could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations in China. Geopolitical tensions between China on the one hand and the United States and/or the European Union on the other hand, may increase and may lead to increased export sanctions with Chinese entities and sanctions made against China. As a result of our growing operations in China, these risks could harm our business. Further, on June 3, 2021, the President issued Executive Order 14032 (Addressing the Threat from Securities Investments that Finance Certain Companies of the Peoples Republic of China) targeting entities that are deemed part of the Chinese military-industrial complex. The executive order, and the subsequent Office of Foreign Assets Control additions to its Non-SDN Chinese Military-Industrial Complex Companies List, include one or more entities that have indirectly invested in us. Among other things, this executive order prohibits the purchase or sale of any publicly traded securities of a designated entity. We do not expect that this executive order will impact us; however, further government escalation of restrictions related to Chinese investors and dealings in securities could harm certain shareholders. 46 Table of Contents We anticipate conducting certain of our operations through joint venture arrangements with Chinese entities. If the Chinese government determines that these arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be adversely affected. If the PRC regulatory agencies determine that the agreements that establish the structure and relationship for our operations in China do not comply with PRC regulatory restrictions on foreign investment, we could be subject to severe penalties. In addition, changes in such Chinese laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business. There are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws, rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws, rules and regulations governing the validity and enforcement of the joint venture arrangement such as the one we are contemplating entering into with certain Chinese entities, including one of our shareholders who holds less than 5% of our outstanding common stock. Because many laws and regulations are relatively new, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform. Moreover, the interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political agendas. Enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic. Although we believe, based on our understanding of the current PRC laws, rules and regulations, the structure for our current and contemplated operations based in China complies with all applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations and does not violate, breach, contravene or otherwise conflict with any applicable PRC laws, rules or regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not determine that such joint venture arrangements do not violate PRC laws, rules or regulations. If the PRC regulatory authorities determine that any joint ventures we may enter into are in violation of applicable PRC laws, rules or regulations, such joint venture arrangements may become invalid or unenforceable, which will substantially affect our operations adversely. The Chinese government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted by relevant governmental agencies may be revoked at a later time by other regulatory agencies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new Chinese laws or regulations on our business. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Joint ventures are subject to a number of risks, the occurrence of which could adversely impact any of our current or future joint ventures, which in turn could harm our business. Joint ventures such as the joint venture we may form for which we are in preliminary discussions as discussed elsewhere in this report, are subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to: Our joint venture partners may not commit sufficient resources to market and distribute our products or to otherwise support the joint venture and its intended operations. Our joint venture partners may infringe the IP we assign to such joint venture, or the IP of other parties, which may expose us to litigation and other potential liabilities. Disputes may arise among us and our joint venture partners that result in the delay or termination of activities contemplated by such joint venture or that could result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management attention and resources. Our joint venture partners may not provide us with timely and accurate information regarding the status or activities of the joint venture which could, among other things, impact our ability to accurately forecast financial results or provide timely information to our shareholders. Any of the risks related to doing business in China or having a Chinese joint venture that are discussed elsewhere in these risk factors. The occurrence of one or more of the above risks, or any other negative events, could adversely impact our joint ventures and could in turn harm our business. In addition to the risks mentioned above, we cannot guarantee that we will enter into the potential joint venture for which we are in preliminary discussions mentioned elsewhere in this report, despite expending substantial management time and other resources on such potential transaction. In addition, even if we do enter into this joint venture, we cannot guarantee that it will be successful. 47 Table of Contents We could be subject to changes in tax rates or the adoption of new tax legislation, whether in or out of the United States, or could otherwise have exposure to additional tax liabilities, which could harm our business. As a multinational business, we are subject to income and other taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Changes to tax laws or regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, or in the interpretation of such laws or regulations, could, significantly increase our effective tax rate and reduce our cash flow from operating activities, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, other factors or events, including business combinations and investment transactions, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, adjustments to taxes upon finalization of various tax returns or as a result of deficiencies asserted by taxing authorities, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, changes in available tax credits, changes in transfer pricing methodologies, other changes in the apportionment of our income and other activities among tax jurisdictions, and changes in tax rates, could also increase our effective tax rate. Our tax filings are subject to review or audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We may also be liable for taxes in connection with businesses we acquire. Our determinations are not binding on the IRS or any other taxing authorities, and accordingly the final determination in an audit or other proceeding may be materially different than the treatment reflected in our tax provisions, accruals and returns. An assessment of additional taxes because of an audit could harm our business. Further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise, in particular, as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting project that was undertaken by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (the OECD). The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. These changes, if adopted, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes and increase our tax liabilities. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. We have incurred cumulative losses historically and it is possible that we will not achieve profitability in the future. Realization of our existing net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards and other tax attributes (such as research tax credits) depends on future taxable income, and there is a risk that our NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes could expire unused before we achieve profitability and be unavailable to offset future taxable income, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. In general, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, generally defined as a cumulative change of more than 50 percentage points (by value) in its equity ownership by certain stockholders over a three-year period, the corporations ability to use its pre-change NOL carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change income or taxes may be limited. We may have experienced ownership changes in the past and may experience additional ownership changes in the future, including as a result of subsequent changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside our control. Accordingly, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of our NOL carryforwards, even if we achieve profitability. The requirements of being a public company require significant resources and management attention and affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and qualified board members. As a public company, we incur increased legal, accounting, compliance and other expenses that we did not previously incur as a private company. We are subject to the Exchange Act, including the reporting requirements thereunder, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the rules and other applicable securities rules and regulations. These rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives, which divert their attention away from our core business operations and revenue-producing activities. Moreover, compliance with these rules and regulations increases our legal and financial compliance costs, makes some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increases demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company. Further, we expect that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain directors and officers liability insurance, which in turn could require us to incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage or accept reduced policy limits and coverage, which, if we accept such reduced policy limits and coverage, could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors and as our executive officers. In addition, prior to our initial public offering, we were not required to comply with SEC requirements to have our financial statements completed and reviewed or audited within a specified time and, as such, we may experience difficulty in meeting the applicable reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. Any failure by us to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner could harm our reputation and reduce the trading price of our common stock. 48 Table of Contents We are evaluating these rules and regulations and cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These rules and regulations are often subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. In addition, if we fail to comply with these rules and regulations, we could be subject to a number of penalties, including the delisting of our common stock, fines, sanctions or other regulatory action or civil litigation. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure