Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes before deciding whether to invest in our Class A common stock. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. In such an event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material may also impair our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our prior growth rates may not be indicative of our future growth. We have experienced significant growth in prior periods and we may not be able to achieve similar revenue growth rates in the future. Further, as we continue to operate in a new and rapidly changing category of work management software, widespread acceptance and use of our platform is critical to our future growth and success. We believe our revenue growth depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: attract new individuals, teams, and organizations as customers; grow or maintain our dollar-based net retention rate, expand usage within organizations, and sell subscriptions; price and package our subscription plans effectively; convert individuals, teams, and organizations on our free and trial versions into paying customers; achieve widespread acceptance and use of our platform, including in markets outside of the United States; strategically expand our direct sales force and channel partner program and leverage our existing sales capacity; expand the features and capabilities of our platform, including the successful deployment of AI features in our products; provide excellent customer experience and customer support; maintain the security, privacy, and reliability of our platform or systems that process confidential data; successfully compete against established companies and new market entrants, as well as existing software tools; and 16 Table of Contents increase awareness of our brand on a global basis. If we are unable to accomplish these tasks, our revenue growth would be harmed. We also expect our operating expenses to increase in future periods, and if our revenue growth does not increase to offset these anticipated increases in our operating expenses, our business, results of operations, and financial condition will be harmed, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. We have a limited operating history at our current scale, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We have experienced significant growth in prior periods and, as a result, have a relatively short history operating our business at its current scale. Furthermore, we operate in an industry that is characterized by rapid technological innovation, intense competition, changing customer needs, and frequent introductions of new products, technologies, and services. In particular, advancements in technology such as AI and machine learning are changing the way people work by automating tasks, enhancing communication, and improving decision-making processes, and businesses that are slow to adopt these new technologies may face a competitive disadvantage. We have encountered, and will continue to encounter, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in evolving industries. In addition, our future growth rate is subject to a number of uncertainties, such as general macroeconomic and market conditions, including fluctuating interest rates, inflation, actual or anticipated bank failures, instability in financial markets, tariffs and changes in trade agreements, and economic downturns or recessions in the regions in which we do business. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan our business, are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in the market, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our results of operations could differ materially from our expectations, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition would suffer. We have a history of losses, and we may not be able to achieve profitability or, if achieved, sustain profitability. We have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since our founding. We generated net losses of $255.5 million and $257.0 million for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025 and January 31, 2024, respectively. As of January 31, 2025, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,828.5 million. We do not expect to be profitable in the near future, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future or that, if we do become profitable, we will sustain profitability. These losses reflect, among other things, the significant investments we made to develop and commercialize our platform, serve our existing customers, and broaden our customer base. We expect to continue to make future investments and expenditures related to the growth of our business, including: strategic investment in our sales and marketing activities; continued investments in research and development to introduce new features and enhancements to our platform, including integration of AI in our products; hiring employees necessary to support our goals; investments in infrastructure; leveraging our operations across our multiple geographies; and costs associated with our general and administrative organization. As a result of these investments and expenditures, we may experience losses in future periods that may increase significantly. Therefore, our losses in future periods may be significantly greater than the losses we would incur if we developed our business more slowly. In addition, we may find that these efforts are more expensive than we currently anticipate or that they may not result in increases in our revenues. We cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve, sustain, or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Any failure by us to achieve and sustain profitability would cause the trading price of our Class A common stock to decline. 17 Table of Contents We believe our long-term value as a company will be greater if we focus on growth, which may negatively impact our profitability in the near and medium term. A significant part of our business strategy and culture is to focus on long-term growth and customer success over short-term financial results. As a result, in the near and medium term, we may continue to operate at a loss, or our near- and medium-term profitability may be lower than it would be if our strategy were to maximize near- and medium-term profitability. We expect to continue making expenditures on sales and marketing efforts, and expenditures to grow our platform and develop new features, integrations, capabilities, and enhancements to our platform. Such expenditures may not result in improved business results or profitability over the long term. If we are ultimately unable to achieve or improve profitability at the level or during the time frame anticipated by securities or industry analysts and our stockholders, the trading price of our Class A common stock may decline. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and may not meet our expectations or those of investors or securities analysts. Our quarterly results of operations, including the levels of our revenues, deferred revenue, working capital, and cash flows, may vary significantly in the future, such that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including, but not limited to: the level of demand for our platform; our ability to grow or maintain our dollar-based net retention rate, expand usage within organizations, and sell subscriptions; the timing and success of new features, integrations, capabilities, and enhancements by us to our platform, or by our competitors to their products, including the development and deployment of AI driven features, or any other changes in the competitive landscape of our market; our ability to achieve widespread acceptance and use of our platform; errors in our forecasting of the demand for our platform, which would lead to lower revenues, increased costs, or both; the amount and timing of operating expenses and capital expenditures, as well as entry into operating leases, that we may incur to maintain and expand our business and operations and to remain competitive; the timing of expenses and recognition of revenues; security breaches, technical difficulties, or interruptions to our platform; pricing pressure as a result of competition or otherwise; adverse litigation judgments, other dispute-related settlement payments, or other litigation-related costs; the number of new employees hired; the timing of the grant or vesting of equity awards to employees, directors, or consultants; seasonal buying patterns for software spending; declines in the values of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar; fluctuating global interest rates, which may affect our customers spending patterns and our return on investments; impact of inflation on our costs and on customer spending; changes in, and continuing uncertainty in relation to, the legislative or regulatory environment; 18 Table of Contents legal and regulatory compliance costs in new and existing markets; costs and timing of expenses related to the potential acquisition of businesses, talent, technologies, or intellectual property, including potentially significant amortization costs and possible write-downs; health epidemics, such as influenza, and other highly communicable diseases or viruses; and general economic conditions in either domestic or international markets, including geopolitical uncertainty and instability, tariffs and changes in trade agreements, and their effects on software spending. Any one or more of the factors above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations, which may negatively impact the trading price of our Class A common stock. You should not rely on our past results as an indicator of our future performance. The variability and unpredictability of our quarterly results of operations or other operating metrics could result in our failure to meet our expectations or those of investors or analysts with respect to revenues or other metrics for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the trading price of our Class A common stock would fall, and we would face costly litigation, including securities class action lawsuits. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth. We have historically experienced significant growth and increasing demand for our platform. The growth and expansion of our business and platform may place a significant strain on our management, operational, and financial resources. We are required to manage multiple relationships with various strategic partners, customers, and other third parties. In the event of further growth of our operations or in the number of our third-party relationships, our systems, procedures, or internal controls may not be adequate to support our operations, and our management may not be able to manage such growth effectively. To effectively manage our growth, we must continue to implement and improve our operational, financial, and management information systems and expand, train, and manage our employee base. If we are unable to attract new customers, convert individuals, teams, and organizations using our free and trial versions into paying customers, and expand usage within organizations or develop new features, integrations, capabilities, and enhancements that achieve market acceptance, our revenue growth would be harmed. To increase our revenues and achieve profitability, we must increase our customer base through various methods, including but not limited to, adding new customers, converting individuals, teams, and organizations using our free and trial versions into paying customers, and expanding usage within organizations. We encourage customers on our free and trial versions to upgrade to paid subscription plans. Additionally, we seek to expand within organizations by adding new customers, having organizations upgrade to our Advanced, Enterprise or Enterprise+ plans, or expanding their use of our platform into other departments within an organization. While we have experienced significant growth in the number of customers, we do not know whether we will continue to achieve similar customer growth rates in the future. Numerous factors may impede our ability to add new customers, convert individuals, teams, and organizations using our free and trial versions into paying customers, expand usage within organizations, and sell subscriptions to our platform, including but not limited to, our failure to attract and effectively train new sales and marketing personnel, failure to retain and motivate our current sales and marketing personnel, failure to develop or expand relationships with partners, failure to compete effectively against alternative products or services, failure to successfully deploy new features and integrations, failure to provide a quality customer experience and customer support, or failure to ensure the effectiveness of our marketing programs. Additionally, as we focus on increasing our sales to larger organizations, we will be required to deploy sophisticated and costly sales efforts, which may result in longer sales cycles, greater competition, and less predictability in completing some of our sales. In the large enterprise market, the customers decision to use our platform can sometimes be an enterprise-wide decision, in which case, we will likely be required to provide greater levels of customer education to familiarize potential customers with the use and benefits of our platform, as well as training and on-going support. In addition, larger enterprise organizations may demand more customization, integration and support services, and features. As a result of these factors, these sales opportunities may require us to devote greater sales, research and development, and customer support resources to these customers, resulting in increased costs, 19 Table of Contents lengthened sales cycles, and diversion of our own sales and professional services resources to a smaller number of larger customers. If our efforts to sell to organizations of all sizes are not successful or do not generate additional revenues, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would suffer. In addition, we believe that many of our new customers originate from word-of-mouth and other non-paid referrals from existing customers, so we must ensure that our existing customers remain loyal to our platform in order to continue receiving those referrals. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenues from existing paying customers depends in large part on our ability to continually enhance and improve our platform and the features, integrations, and capabilities we offer, and to introduce compelling new features, integrations, and capabilities that reflect the changing nature of our market in order to maintain and improve the quality and value of our platform. Accordingly, we must continue to invest in research and development and in our ongoing efforts to improve and enhance our platform. The success of any enhancement to our platform depends on several factors, including timely completion and delivery, competitive pricing and packaging, adequate quality testing, integration with new and existing technologies, including AI, and overall market acceptance. Any new features, integrations, and capabilities that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may contain errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs, or may not achieve the market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. We may have limited insight into the privacy, data protection, or security practices of third-party data suppliers for our AI algorithms. Moreover, our business is subscription based, and customers are not obligated to and may not renew their subscriptions after their existing subscriptions expire, and we cannot ensure that customers will renew subscriptions with a similar contract period, with the same or greater number of users, or for the same level of subscription plan or upgrade their subscription plan. Customers may or may not renew their subscription plans as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our platform, our pricing or pricing structure, the pricing or capabilities of the products and services offered by our competitors, the effects of general economic conditions including a downturn or recession, inflation and fluctuating interest rates, or customers budgetary constraints. If customers do not renew their subscriptions, renew on less favorable terms, or fail to add more individuals, teams, and organizations, or if we fail to upgrade individuals, teams, and organizations from our free or trial plans to our paid subscription plans, or expand the adoption of our platform within organizations, our revenues may decline or grow less quickly than anticipated, which would harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The current macroeconomic environment, including fluctuating interest rates, instability in financial markets, bank failures, and headwinds for technology customers, may impact the adoption of our platform generally and our success in engaging with new customers and expanding relationships with existing customers may be impacted by these conditions. If our customers are materially negatively impacted by these factors, such as being unable to access their existing cash to fulfill their payment obligation to us due to future bank failures, our business could be negatively impacted. As a result of these macroeconomic conditions, and any corresponding actions customers may take to manage costs, we have experienced and may continue to experience longer sales cycles, and we may continue to experience a reduction in renewal rates, as well as reduced customer spend and delayed payments that could materially impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition in future periods. While we believe our revenues are relatively predictable in the near-term as a result of our subscription-based business model, the effect of macroeconomic uncertainties may not be fully reflected in our operating results and overall financial performance until future periods. If we fail to predict customer demands, fail to sufficiently account for the impact of macroeconomic conditions on our sales projections, or fail to attract new customers and maintain and expand new and existing customer relationships, our revenues may grow more slowly than expected, may not grow at all, or may decline, and our business may be harmed. One of our marketing strategies is to offer free and trial subscription plans, and we may not be able to continue to realize the benefits of this strategy. We offer free and trial subscription plans to promote brand awareness and organic adoption of our platform. Our marketing strategy depends in part on individuals, teams, and organizations who use our free and trial versions of our platform convincing others within their organizations to use Asana and to become paying customers. To the extent that increasing numbers of these individuals, teams, and organizations do not become, or lead others to become, paying customers, we will not realize the intended benefits of this marketing strategy, we will continue to 20 Table of Contents pay the costs associated with hosting such free and trial versions, our ability to grow our business will be harmed, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition will suffer. We derive substantially all of our revenues from a single software solution and products available as add-ons to that solution. Our flagship product, the Asana work management platform, currently accounts for substantially all of our revenue through seat-based licenses. Additionally, the revenue derived from our add-on product, AI Studio, and products or services we may launch in the future, may be dependent on licenses to our core work management platform. As such, the continued growth in market demand for and market acceptance, including international market acceptance, of our platform is critical to our continued success. Demand for our platform is affected by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as the rate of market adoption of work management solutions; the timing of development and release of competing new products; the development and acceptance of new features, integrations, and capabilities for our platform, including features, integrations, or capabilities that utilize AI; price, product, and service changes by us or our competitors; technological changes and developments within the markets we serve; growth, contraction, and rapid evolution of our market; and general economic conditions and trends including a downturn or recession, inflation, and fluctuating interest rates. If we are unable to continue to meet the demands of individuals, teams, and organizations or trends in preferences for work management solutions or to achieve more widespread market acceptance of our platform, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be harmed. Changes in preferences of our current or potential customers may have a disproportionately greater impact on us than if we offered multiple products. In addition, some current and potential customers, particularly larger organizations, may develop or acquire their own tools or continue to rely on traditional tools and software for their work management solutions, which would reduce or eliminate their demand for our platform. If demand for our platform declines for any of these or other reasons, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. If the market for work management solutions develops more slowly than we expect or declines, our business would be adversely affected. It is uncertain whether work management solutions will achieve and sustain high levels of customer demand and market acceptance given the relatively early stage of development of this market. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the widespread adoption of work management solutions generally. Individuals and organizations may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to work management solutions from spreadsheets, email, messaging, and legacy project management tools. It is difficult to predict adoption rates and demand for our platform, the future growth rate and size of the market for work management solutions, or the entry of competitive offerings. The expansion of the work management solutions market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance, and perceived value associated with work management solutions. If work management solutions do not achieve widespread adoption, or there is a reduction in demand for work management solutions caused by a lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, or if work management solutions are disrupted by developments in AI and we are unable to successfully integrate AI in our products, weakening economic conditions, privacy, data protection, or security concerns, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending, or otherwise, it could result in decreased revenues, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and competition presents an ongoing threat to the success of our business. Our ability to compete and ensure our success requires developments in our technology, including the successful deployment of artificial intelligence in our products. The market for work management solutions is increasingly competitive, fragmented, and subject to rapidly changing technology, shifting user and customer needs, new market entrants, and frequent introductions of new products and services. We compete with companies that range in size from large and diversified with significant spending resources to smaller companies. Our competition addresses the project portfolio management, work management, goal management, and workflow management categories, including, but not limited to, solutions around collaboration, communication, and coordination. Our competitors generally fall into the following groups: 21 Table of Contents companies specifically offering work management solutions, companies offering productivity suites, and companies specializing in vertical solutions that address a portion of our market. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including the following: rapid developments in our technology, including the successful deployment of AI in our products; adaptability of our platform to a broad range of use cases; continued market acceptance of our platform and the timing and market acceptance of new features and enhancements to our platform or the offerings of our competitors; ease of use, performance, price, security, and reliability of solutions developed either by us or our competitors; our brand strength; selling and marketing efforts, including our ability to grow our market share domestically and internationally; the size and diversity of our customer base; customer support efforts; and our ability to continue to create easy to use integrations for, and robust, effective partnerships with, other larger enterprise software solutions and tools. Many of our current and potential competitors may have longer operating histories, greater brand name recognition, stronger and more extensive partner relationships, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources, lower labor and development costs, and larger customer bases than we do. These competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, incorporate AI or machine learning to more significantly improve their product offerings, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies that will allow them to build larger customer bases than we have. In addition, some of our potential customers may elect to develop their own internal applications for their work management needs. Our competitors may also offer their products and services at a lower price, may offer price concessions, delayed payment terms, financing terms, or other terms and conditions that are more enticing to potential customers. The work management solutions market is rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry, and in the future there will likely be an increasing number of similar solutions offered by additional competitors. Large companies we do not currently consider to be competitors may enter the market, through acquisitions or through innovation and expansion of their existing solutions, to compete with us either directly or indirectly. Further, our potential and existing competitors may make acquisitions or enter into strategic relationships and rapidly acquire significant market share due to a larger customer base, superior product offering, more effective sales and marketing operations, or greater financial, technical, and other resources. Any one of these competitive pressures in our market, or our failure to compete effectively, may result in price reductions; fewer customers; reduced revenues, gross profit, and gross margin; increased net losses; and loss of market share. Any failure to meet and address these factors would harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Failure to effectively develop and leverage our sales capabilities would harm our ability to expand usage of our platform within our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our platform. Our ability to expand usage of our platform within our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance among businesses will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales operations successfully, particularly our sales and marketing efforts targeted at broadening use of our platform across departments and entire 22 Table of Contents organizations. We plan to leverage our direct sales force and channel partners, both domestically and internationally, to expand use of our platform within our customer base, and reach larger teams and organizations. We may additionally make strategic investments in expanding our sales capabilities in the future. We have invested and continue to invest financial and other resources to train and develop our direct sales force and channel partners in order to complement our product-led go-to-market approach. Our business, results of operations, and financial condition will be harmed if our efforts do not generate a corresponding increase in revenues. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from our direct sales force if we are unable to leverage and develop talented direct sales personnel, if direct sales personnel and channel partners are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, or if we are unable to retain our existing direct sales personnel and channel partners. We believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require, and that developing and growing the skills of these personnel takes significant time and resources. Our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in attracting, training, and retaining sufficient numbers of capable sales personnel in our direct sales force and channel partners to support our growth. If our information technology systems, or those of third parties with whom we work, or our data are compromised or operate in an unintended way, we could experience adverse consequences, including but not limited to regulatory investigations or actions; litigation; fines and penalties; disruptions of our business operations; reputational harm; loss of revenue or profits; and other adverse consequences. Operating our business and platform involves the collection, processing, storage, and transmission of sensitive, regulated, proprietary and confidential information, including our personal information and business information and those of our customers. As a result, we and the third parties with whom we work face a variety of evolving threats, including but not limited to ransomware attacks, which could cause security incidents. Security incidents can and do compromise the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of this information or our systems. Such incidents include, but are not limited to, cyber-attacks, software bugs and vulnerabilities, malicious internet-based activity, online and offline fraud, server malfunctions, software or hardware failures, malicious code, malware (including as a result of advanced persistent threat intrusion), viruses, social engineering (including through deep fakes, which are increasingly more difficult to identify, and phishing attacks), ransomware, supply chain attacks and vulnerabilities through our third-party partners, denial-of-service attacks, credential stuffing, credential harvesting, loss of data or other information technology assets, adware, telecommunications failures, earthquakes, fire, floods, attacks enhanced or facilitated by AI, and other similar threats, efforts by individuals or groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, including state-sponsored organizations, threat actors, hacktivists, organized criminal threat actors, errors or malfeasance of our personnel, misconfiguration, and security vulnerabilities in the software or systems on which we rely. For example, we have been impacted by the use of automated or other fraudulent processes designed to circumvent controls to conduct fraud, send spam, or to execute an account takeover. We anticipate such activity to continue. These abuses and exploits, and the steps that we take to address them may result in a loss of anticipated revenue, increased costs to protect against or remediate these issues, or cause harm to our reputation and brand. Ransomware attacks, including those perpetrated by organized criminal threat actors, nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors, are becoming increasingly prevalent and severe and can lead to significant interruptions in our operations and our ability to provide our products or services, loss of confidential, proprietary, and sensitive information and income, reputational harm, and diversion of funds. Extortion payments may alleviate the negative impact of a ransomware attack, but we may be unwilling or unable to make such payments due to, for example, applicable laws or regulations prohibiting such payments. Some actors now engage and are expected to continue to engage in cyber-attacks, including without limitation nation-state actors for geopolitical reasons and in conjunction with military conflicts and defense activities. During times of war and other major conflicts, we and the third parties with whom we work may be vulnerable to a heightened risk of these attacks, including retaliatory cyber-attacks, that could materially disrupt our systems and operations, supply chain, and ability to produce, sell and distribute our services. Threats such as these are constantly evolving and therefore grow increasingly sophisticated and complex, which in turn increases the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. It may be difficult and/or costly to detect, investigate, mitigate, contain, and remediate a security incident and our efforts to do so may not be successful. Actions taken by us or the third parties with whom we work to detect, investigate, mitigate, contain, and remediate a security incident could result in outages, data losses, and disruptions 23 Table of Contents of our business. Threat actors may also gain access to other networks and systems after a compromise of our networks and systems. We expend resources and modify our business activities to try to protect against security incidents. Additionally, certain privacy, data protection, and security obligations require us to implement and maintain specific security measures or industry-standard or reasonable security measures to protect our information technology systems and confidential, proprietary, and sensitive information. While we have implemented security measures designed to protect against security incidents, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective. We take steps designed to detect, mitigate, and remediate vulnerabilities in our information systems (such as our hardware and/or software, including that of third parties with whom we work). We have not been, and may not in the future, be able to detect and/or remediate all vulnerabilities including on a timely basis. Further, we have experienced (and may in the future experience) delays in developing and deploying remedial measures designed to address such identified vulnerabilities. Vulnerabilities could be exploited and result in a security incident. Additionally, we rely on or partner with third-party vendors and systems that have made representations as to their security measures but there can be no assurance that they will maintain their own security measures appropriately. Breaches of our security measures or those of our third parties, including supply chain attacks or other threats to our business operations, could result in unauthorized access to our sites, networks, systems, and accounts; unauthorized access to, and misappropriation of, individuals personal information or other sensitive, confidential or proprietary information of ourselves, our customers, or other third parties; viruses, worms, spyware, or other malware being served from our platform, mobile application, networks, or systems; deletion or modification of content or the display of unauthorized content on our platform; interruption, disruption, or malfunction of operations or our ability to provide our services; costs relating to breach remediation, deployment of additional personnel and protection technologies, and response to governmental investigations and media inquiries and coverage; engagement of third-party experts and consultants; or litigation, regulatory action, and other potential liabilities. If any of these breaches of security should occur, we cannot guarantee that recovery protocols and backup systems will be sufficient to prevent data loss. Additionally, if any of these breaches occur, our reputation and brand could be damaged, our business may suffer, we could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to alleviate problems caused by such breaches, and we could be exposed to risk of loss, litigation or regulatory action, and other potential liabilities, such as investigations, fines, penalties, audits, inspections, injunctions, additional oversight, or restrictions or bans on processing personal information. Actual or anticipated security breaches or attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. Remote work has increased risks to our information technology systems and data, as more of our employees utilize network connections, computers, and devices outside our premises or network, including working from home, while in transit and in public locations. Additionally, future or past business transactions (such as acquisitions or integrations) could expose us to additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities, as our systems could be negatively affected by vulnerabilities present in acquired or integrated entities systems and technologies. Furthermore, we may discover security issues that were not found during due diligence of such acquired or integrated entities, and it may be difficult to integrate companies into our information technology environment and security program. Certain of the previously identified or similar threats could cause a security incident or other interruption that could result in unauthorized, unlawful, or accidental acquisition, modification, destruction, loss, alteration, encryption, disclosure of, or access to our information technology systems and confidential, proprietary, and sensitive information, or those of the third parties with whom we work. For example, periodically we become aware of attempts to phish Asana employees or attempts to circumvent spam protections weve put in place in our product. A security incident or other interruption could disrupt our ability (and that of third parties with whom we work) to provide our products or services or could impact our reputation. Any compromise or breach of our security measures, or those of the third parties with whom we work, could also violate applicable privacy, data protection, security, and other laws, and cause significant legal and financial 24 Table of Contents exposure, adverse publicity, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Applicable privacy, data protection, and security obligations may also require us, or we may voluntarily choose, to notify relevant stakeholders, such as governmental authorities, partners, customers, investors, and affected individuals, of security breaches or incidents, or take other action, such as providing credit monitoring and identity theft protection services, and we have done such notifications in the past. Such notifications may involve inconsistent requirements and are costly, and the notifications or the failure to comply with such applicable requirements could lead to adverse consequences. If we (or a third party with whom we work) experience a security incident or are perceived to have experienced a security incident, we may experience material adverse consequences, such as government enforcement actions (for example, investigations, fines, penalties, audits, and inspections); additional reporting requirements and/or oversight; restrictions on processing confidential, proprietary, and sensitive data (including personal information); litigation (including class claims); indemnification obligations; negative publicity; reputational harm; monetary fund diversions; diversion of management attention; interruptions in our operations (including availability of data); financial loss; and other similar harms. Security incidents and material attendant consequences may cause customers to stop using our services, deter new customers from using our services, and negatively impact our ability to grow and operate our business. Additionally, our contracts may not contain limitations of liability, and even when they do, there can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts are sufficient to protect us from liabilities, claims, or damages if we fail to comply with applicable obligations related to privacy, data protection, or security. We also cannot be sure that our insurance coverage will be adequate or sufficient to protect us from or to mitigate liabilities arising out of our privacy, data protection, and security practices, that such coverage will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that such coverage will pay future claims. In addition to experiencing a security incident, third parties may gather, collect, or infer sensitive information about us from public sources, data brokers, or other means that reveals competitively sensitive details about our organization and could be used to undermine our competitive advantage or market position. Additionally, our sensitive, proprietary, or confidential information could be leaked, disclosed, or revealed as a result of or in connection with our employees or vendors use of generative AI technologies. Furthermore, any sensitive information (including regulated, proprietary and confidential information, including personal information and business information) that we input into a third-party generative artificial intelligence platform could be leaked or disclosed to others, including if sensitive information is used to train the third parties artificial intelligence model. Additionally, where an artificial intelligence model ingests personal information and makes connections using such information, those technologies may reveal other personal or sensitive information generated by the model. Our use of AI and machine learning technologies in our products and operations gives rise to legal, business, and operational risks. Legal, regulatory, social and ethical issues relating to the use of AI and machine learning technologies in our products and business may result in reputational harm and liability. Our platform integrates generative AI and machine learning technology into certain features that we offer to our customers. The rapid evolution of AI and machine learning technologies require dedicated resources to develop, test, and maintain our product offerings and to help responsibly integrate such technologies into certain features to minimize unintended or harmful impacts to our customers. Uncertainty around new and emerging AI and machine learning technologies may require additional investment in the development of proprietary datasets, machine learning models, and systems to test for accuracy, bias, and other variables, which are often complex, may be costly, and could impact our profit margin as we expand the use of AI and machine learning technologies in our products. There are significant risks involved in developing, maintaining, and deploying these technologies internally and/or to customers and there can be no assurance that such technologies will enhance our products or benefit our customers or business. Our ability to continue to develop or use such technologies may be dependent on our access to technology offered by vendors and specific third-party software and infrastructure providers, such as processing hardware or 25 Table of Contents third-party AI models, and we cannot control the quality, availability, or cost of such vendor offerings or third-party software and infrastructure offerings. We face competition from other companies in our industry who use similar machine learning technologies. Failure to offer or deploy new AI or machine learning technologies as quickly or effectively as our competitors could adversely affect our business. In addition, market acceptance and consumer perceptions of AI and machine learning technologies are currently fast-evolving and therefore remain uncertain. For example, AI technologies, including generative AI, may create content or information that appears correct but is factually inaccurate or flawed. The use of AI technologies also presents emerging ethical and social issues. If we enable or offer solutions that draw scrutiny or controversy due to their perceived or actual negative impact on our customers, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive disadvantages, consumer complaints, legal liability, and other adverse consequences, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we fail to manage our technical operations infrastructure, or experience service outages, interruptions, or delays in the deployment of our platform, our results of operations may be harmed. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, system slowdowns and interruptions. In addition, continued growth in our customer base could place additional demands on our platform and could cause or exacerbate slowdowns or interrupt the availability of our platform. If there is a substantial increase in the volume of usage on our platform, we will be required to further expand and upgrade our technology and infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our platform or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases on a timely basis. In such cases, if our users are not able to access our platform or encounter slowdowns when doing so, we may lose customers or partners. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, and features of our platform. Our disaster recovery plan may not be sufficient to address all aspects or any unanticipated consequence or incidents, and our insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for the losses that could occur. Moreover, Amazon Web Services (AWS) provides the cloud computing infrastructure that we use to host our platform, mobile application, and many of the internal tools we use to operate our business. We have a long-term commitment with AWS, and our platform, mobile application, and internal tools use computing, storage capabilities, bandwidth, and other services provided by AWS. Any significant disruption of, limitation of our access to, or other interference with our use of AWS would negatively impact our operations and could seriously harm our business. In addition, any transition of the cloud services currently provided by AWS to another cloud services provider would require significant time and expense and could disrupt or degrade delivery of our platform. Our business relies on the availability of our platform for our users and customers, and we may lose users or customers if they are not able to access our platform or encounter difficulties in doing so. The level of service provided by AWS could affect the availability or speed of our platform, which may also impact the usage of, and our customers satisfaction with, our platform and could seriously harm our business and reputation. If AWS increases pricing terms, terminates or seeks to terminate our contractual relationship, establishes more favorable relationships with our competitors, or changes or interprets its terms of service or policies in a manner that is unfavorable with respect to us, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, we rely on hardware and infrastructure purchased or leased from third parties and software licensed from third parties to operate critical business functions. Our business would be disrupted if any of this third-party hardware, software, and infrastructure becomes unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Furthermore, delays or complications with respect to the transition of critical business functions from one third-party product to another, or any errors or defects in third-party hardware, software, or infrastructure could result in errors or a failure of our platform, which could harm our business and results of operations. Real or perceived errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs in our platform would harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The software technology underlying and integrating with our platform is inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors. Errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs have in the past, and may in the future, occur in 26 Table of Contents our platform and mobile application, especially when updates are deployed or new features, integrations, or capabilities are rolled out. Any such errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs may not be found until after new features, integrations, or capabilities have been released. Furthermore, we will need to ensure that our platform can scale to meet the evolving needs of customers, particularly as we increase our focus on larger teams and organizations. Real or perceived errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs in our platform and mobile application could result in an interruption in the availability of our platform, negative publicity, unfavorable user experience, loss or leaking of personal information and data of organizations, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our platform, loss of competitive position, regulatory fines, or claims by organizations for losses sustained by them, all of which would harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we are unable to ensure that our platform interoperates with a variety of software applications that are developed by others, including our integration partners, we may become less competitive and our results of operations may be harmed. Our platform must integrate with a variety of hardware and software platforms, and we need to continuously modify and enhance our platform to adapt to changes in hardware, software, and browser technologies. In particular, we have developed our platform to be able to easily integrate with third-party applications, including the applications of software providers that compete with us as well as our partners, through the interaction of application programming interfaces (APIs). In general, we rely on the providers of such software systems to allow us access to their APIs to enable these integrations. We are typically subject to standard terms and conditions of such providers, which govern the distribution, operation, and fees of such software systems, and which are subject to change by such providers from time to time. Our business will be harmed if any provider of such software systems: discontinues or limits our access to its software or APIs; modifies its terms of service or other policies, including fees charged to, or other restrictions on us, or other application developers; changes how information is accessed by us or our customers; establishes more favorable relationships with one or more of our competitors; or develops or otherwise favors its own competitive offerings over our platform. Third-party services and products are constantly evolving, and we may not be able to modify our platform to assure its compatibility with that of other third parties. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to disrupt the operations or compatibility of our platform with their products or services, or exert strong business influence on our ability to, and terms on which we operate our platform. Should any of our competitors modify their products or standards in a manner that degrades the functionality of our platform or gives preferential treatment to competitive products or services, whether to enhance their competitive position or for any other reason, the interoperability of our platform with these products could decrease and our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be harmed. If we are not permitted or able to integrate with these and other third-party applications in the future, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be harmed. Further, our platform includes both a mobile and a desktop application to enable individuals, teams, and organizations to access our platform on multiple device types. If either our mobile or desktop application does not perform well, our business will suffer. In addition, our platform interoperates with servers, mobile devices, and software applications predominantly through the use of protocols, many of which are created and maintained by third parties. We, therefore, depend on the interoperability of our platform with such third-party services, mobile devices, and mobile operating systems, as well as cloud-enabled hardware, software, networking, browsers, database technologies, and protocols that we do not control. The loss of interoperability, whether due to actions of third parties or otherwise, and any changes in technologies that degrade the functionality of our platform or give preferential treatment to competitive services could adversely affect adoption and usage of our platform. Also, we may not be successful in developing or maintaining relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in ensuring that Asana operates effectively with a range of operating systems, networks, devices, browsers, protocols, 27 Table of Contents and standards. If we are unable to effectively anticipate and manage these risks, or if it is difficult for customers to access and use our platform, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be harmed. The loss of one or more of our key personnel could harm our business. Our success depends largely upon the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. From time to time, there may be changes in our senior management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives and key employees, which could disrupt our business. For example, in March 2025, we announced the anticipated transition of Dustin Moskovitz from the role of Chief Executive Officer to focusing on serving as the Chair of the Board when a new Chief Executive Officer is appointed by the Board. Our senior management and key employees are employed on an at-will basis. We currently do not have key person insurance on any of our employees. The loss of Mr. Moskovitz, key development, engineering, sales, or marketing personnel, and other key members of management, may disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Changes in our senior management team may also cause disruptions in, and harm to, our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We must continue to attract and retain highly qualified personnel in very competitive markets to continue to execute on our business strategy and growth plans. To execute our business model, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for executive officers, software engineers, sales personnel, and other key personnel in our industry and in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters is located, and in other locations where we maintain offices, is intense. The incentives to attract, retain, and motivate employees provided by our equity awards, or by other compensation arrangements, may not be as effective as in the past. Additionally, increased inflation rates can adversely affect us by increasing our costs, including labor and employee benefit costs. Employee salaries and benefits expenses have increased as a result of economic growth and increased demand for business services among other wage-inflationary pressures and we cannot assure you that they will not continue to rise. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. Our recruiting and retention efforts may also be limited by laws and regulations, such as restrictive immigration laws, and restrictions on travel imposed by certain governments, as well as delays in processing or a lack of availability of visas. In addition, our past and future restructuring efforts may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. If we do not succeed in attracting excellent personnel or retaining or motivating existing personnel, we may be unable to innovate quickly enough to support our business model or grow effectively. Recently, there has been increased scrutiny of companies human capital practices and initiatives. Negative perception of certain of these practices and initiatives, whether due to our perceived over- or under- pursuit of such initiatives, may result in issues with hiring or retaining employees, as well as potential litigation or other adverse impacts. In addition, our ability to successfully identify, hire and promote employees may be impacted by legal and judicial developments outside of our control and may necessitate changes to our employment practices. For example, some advocacy groups and state attorneys general have asserted that the U.S. Supreme Courts decision striking down race-based affirmative action in higher education in June 2023 should be analogized to private employment matters and private contract matters. Several cases alleging discrimination based on similar arguments have been filed since the decision, with increasing scrutiny of certain corporate human capital practices. In January 2025, the current U.S. administration signed a number of Executive Orders focused on human capital initiatives, which include a broad mandate to eliminate certain federal programs and a caution to the private sector to end what may be viewed as illegal human capital initiatives. The Executive Orders also indicate upcoming compliance investigations of private entities, including publicly traded companies, and changes to federal contracting regulations. Our culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the employee engagement fostered by our culture, which could harm our business. We believe that a critical component of our success has been our culture. We have invested substantial time and resources in building out our team with an emphasis on shared values and inclusion. As we continue to grow and develop the infrastructure associated with being a public company, we will need to maintain our culture among a 28 Table of Contents larger number of employees dispersed in various geographic regions. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our future success, including our ability to retain and recruit personnel and to effectively focus on and pursue our mission to help humanity by enabling the worlds teams to work together effortlessly. Issues and regulations related to human capital, and stakeholder responses thereto, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and may damage our reputation. Companies across all industries are facing increasing scrutiny relating to their human capital and related practices and initiatives. The landscape related to the regulation of such practices and initiatives is constantly evolving. Investor advocacy groups, institutional investors, stockholders, activists, employees, consumers, customers, regulators, proxy advisory services and other market participants have increasingly focused on these types of matters and initiatives. Such stakeholders have placed increased importance on these practices and their effect on companies from an investor, consumer, customer or employee perspective. In addition, we could be criticized for the scope or nature of our practices or initiatives in these areas, or for any revisions to our practices or initiatives. Furthermore, some stakeholders may disagree with our practices or initiatives and there is also a risk that stakeholders may change their views on these matters over time. Our various stakeholders or regulators may also have divergent opinions and conflicting expectations regarding our culture, values, strategy and business, which makes it difficult to achieve a consistently positive perception among all of our various stakeholders. Moreover, we may determine that it is in the best interest of our company and our stockholders to prioritize other investments over maintenance of our current practices or initiatives based on economic, technological developments, regulatory and social factors, business strategy or pressure from investors, activists or other stakeholders. If our practices or initiatives do not meet evolving investor, industry, stakeholder or regulatory expectations and standards related to human capital and related matters, or if we are perceived to have not responded appropriately to the growing and various concerns about such issues, among other things, our reputation, culture, ability to attract or retain employees, sales, stock price, ability to access the capital markets, or overall business or financial results could be adversely affected. Further, if we incur adverse publicity and reaction from investors, activists or other stakeholders related to our human capital practices or initiatives, the perception of us and our products by current and potential customers could cause our customers and consumers to stop purchasing our products or to purchase products from a competitor or subject us to legal and regulatory proceedings, any of which could adversely impact our business and financial results. Our business depends on a strong brand, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to expand our base of customers may be impaired, and our business and results of operations will be harmed. We believe that the brand identity that we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the Asana brand is critical to expanding our customer base and establishing and maintaining relationships with partners. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to ensure that our platform remains high-quality, reliable, and useful at competitive prices, as well as with respect to our free and trial versions. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not be successful. If we fail to promote and maintain the Asana brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. We anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand may become more difficult and expensive. If we fail to offer high-quality customer support, our business and reputation will suffer. While we have designed our platform to be easy to adopt and use, once individuals, teams, and organizations begin using Asana, they rely on our support services to resolve any related issues. High-quality user and customer education and customer experience have been key to the adoption of our platform and for the conversion of individuals, teams, and organizations on our free and trial versions into paying customers. The importance of high-quality customer experience will increase as we expand our business and pursue new customers. For instance, if we do not help organizations on our platform quickly resolve issues and provide effective ongoing user experience at 29 Table of Contents the individual, team, and organizational levels, our ability to convert organizations on our free and trial versions into paying customers will suffer, and our reputation with existing or potential customers will be harmed. Further, our sales are highly dependent on our business reputation and on positive recommendations from existing individuals, teams, and organizations on our platform. Any failure to maintain high-quality customer experience, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality customer experience, could harm our reputation, our ability to sell our platform to existing and prospective customers, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, as we continue to grow our operations and reach a larger and increasingly global customer and user base, we need to be able to provide efficient customer support that meets the needs of organizations on our platform globally at scale. The number of organizations on our platform has grown significantly, which puts additional pressure on our support organization. We will need to hire additional support personnel to provide efficient product support globally at scale, and if we are unable to provide such support, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be harmed. We rely on third parties maintaining open marketplaces to distribute our mobile application. If such third parties interfere with the distribution of our platform, our business would be adversely affected. We rely on third parties maintaining open marketplaces, including the Apple App Store and Google Play, which make our mobile application available for download. We cannot assure you that the marketplaces through which we distribute our mobile application will maintain their current structures or that such marketplaces will not charge us fees to list our application for download. We are also dependent on these third-party marketplaces to enable us and our users to timely update our mobile application, and to incorporate new features, integrations, and capabilities. We are subject to requirements imposed by marketplaces such as Apple and Google, who may change their technical requirements or policies in a manner that adversely impacts, among other things, the way in which we or our partners collect, use and share data from users through our mobile application. If we do not comply with these requirements, we could lose access to the mobile application marketplace and users, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be harmed. In addition, Apple and Google, among others, for competitive or other reasons, could stop allowing or supporting access to our mobile application through their products, could allow access for us only at an unsustainable cost, or could make changes to the terms of access in order to make our mobile application less desirable or harder to access. We rely on traditional web search engines to direct traffic to our website. If our website fails to rank prominently in unpaid search results, traffic to our website could decline and our business would be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract users through unpaid Internet search results on traditional web search engines such as Google. The number of users we attract to our website from search engines is due in large part to how and where our website ranks in unpaid search results. These rankings can be affected by a number of factors, many of which are not in our direct control, and they may change frequently. For example, a search engine may change its ranking algorithms, methodologies, or design layouts. As a result, links to our website may not be prominent enough to drive traffic to our website, and we may not know how or otherwise be in a position to influence the results. Any reduction in the number of users directed to our website could reduce our revenues or require us to increase our sales and marketing expenditures. Sales to customers outside the United States and our international operations expose us to risks inherent in international sales and operations. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, 39.8% of our revenues were generated from customers outside the United States. We have operations in multiple cities globally. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and subjects us to regulatory, economic, and political risks that are different from those in the United States. In addition, we will face risks in doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business and results of operations, including: the need to localize and adapt our platform for specific countries, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; 30 Table of Contents privacy and data protection laws that impose different and potentially conflicting obligations with respect to how personal information is processed or require that customer data be stored in a designated territory; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; regulatory and other delays and difficulties in setting up foreign operations; different pricing environments, longer sales cycles, longer accounts receivable payment cycles, and collections issues; new and different sources of competition; weaker protection for intellectual property and other legal rights than in the United States and practical difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and other rights outside of the United States; laws and business practices favoring local competitors; compliance challenges related to the complexity of multiple, conflicting, and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, sanctions, privacy, data protection, and security laws and regulations; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; declines in the values of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar; restrictions on the transfer of funds; potentially adverse tax consequences; the cost of and potential outcomes of any claims or litigation; future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies; changes in tax laws or tax regulations; health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic; and regional and local economic and political conditions, such as global economic downturns or recessions in the regions in which we do business, tariffs and changes in trade agreements, bank failures, as well as macroeconomic and policy impacts of political instability and armed conflicts. In addition, global armed conflicts, including between Ukraine and Russia and in the Middle East, have created potential global security concerns that could impact operations in our global offices in affected regions and could also impact regional and global economies, either of which could adversely affect our business. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks. These factors and others could harm our ability to increase international revenues and, consequently, would materially impact our business and results of operations. Continuing to leverage our existing international operations and any potential entry into additional international markets will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our failure to successfully manage our international operations and the associated risks effectively could limit the future growth of our business. Sales to government entities, customers reliant on government funding, and other government contractors are subject to a number of additional challenges and risks. We sell and expect to continue selling our products and services to U.S. federal and state and foreign governmental agency customers, which may occur through direct sales to government entities or sales to government entities through our channel partners. We also sell our products and services to customers who may be reliant on funding derived from federal, state, or foreign governmental sources. We are currently pursuing U.S. 31 Table of Contents Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) authorization. Even if we obtain FedRAMP authorization, selling to government entities, customers reliant on government funding, and other government contractors or affiliates presents a number of unique challenges and risks including the following: selling to governmental entities can be more competitive, expensive, and time-consuming than selling to private entities, often requiring significant up-front time and expense and ongoing compliance costs without any assurance that these efforts will generate a sale; contracts with governmental entities are subject to termination for the convenience of the customer; government certification requirements may change, or we may be unable to achieve one or more government certifications, including FedRAMP, which may restrict our ability to sell into the government sector until we have attained such certificates; contracts with governmental entities, customers reliant on government funding, and other government contractors or affiliates, including channel partners or resellers in the government market, contain terms that are less favorable than what we generally agree to in our standard agreements, including, terms and conditions required by regulation that are not negotiable with the customer; non-compliance with terms and conditions of government contracts, or with representations or certifications made in connection with government contracts, can result in significantly more adverse consequences than we typically would expect in the commercial market, including, depending on the circumstances, criminal liability, liability under the civil False Claims Act, and/or suspension or debarment from doing business with governmental entities; as a U.S. government contractor, we may be subject to Executive Orders and regulatory changes affecting various aspects of our operations, including compliance with nondiscrimination plans and regulatory requirements, and any required elimination or modification of such plans or other regulatory requirements in response to new Executive Orders could pose challenges in hiring or retaining employees and may lead to other adverse operational impacts, while failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, including fines, penalties, repayments or suspension or debarment from eligibility for future U.S. government contracts; and demand and payment for our products from government or other customers may be influenced, among other things, by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays having an adverse impact on customer demand for our products. Though our current revenue impact from contracts with government entities is not significant, to the extent that we become more reliant on contracts with government entities, customers reliant on government funding and/or other government contractors or affiliates in the future, our exposure to such risks and challenges could increase, which in turn could adversely impact our business and revenue. In January 2025, the current presidential administration began issuing Executive Orders identifying new government policies and directing U.S. federal agencies to evaluate their current actions, including certain spending, to ensure that such actions are consistent with new administration priorities. Some of those Executive Orders are the subjects of pending litigation, and there remains significant uncertainty about the ways in which agencies will implement the new Executive Orders. Such implementation could negatively affect our current and future business with U.S. government agencies. If we experience excessive fraudulent activity, we could incur substantial costs and lose the right to accept credit cards or other payment methods for payment, which could cause our customer base to decline significantly. A large portion of our customers authorize us to bill their credit card accounts or bill them via other payment methods, such as PayPal or other direct debit methods, through our third-party payment processing partners for our paid subscription plans. If customers pay for their subscription plans with stolen credit cards or fraudulent bank accounts, we could incur substantial third-party vendor costs for which we may not be reimbursed. Further, our 32 Table of Contents customers provide us with payment billing information online, and we do not review the physical credit cards used in these transactions or do additional verification beyond what we collect online, which increases our risk of exposure to fraudulent activity. We also incur charges and fees associated with those charges, which we refer to as chargebacks, from the credit card companies or banks or third-party payment processors for claims that the customer did not authorize the transaction for subscription plans, something that we have experienced in the past. If the number of claims of unauthorized transactions becomes excessive, we could be assessed substantial fines for excess chargebacks, and we could lose the right to accept credit cards for payment or leverage a certain type of payment system via our third-party payment processing partner. In addition, credit card issuers or other payment methods may change merchant standards, including data protection and documentation standards, required to utilize their services from time to time. Our third-party payment processing partners must also maintain compliance with current and future merchant standards to accept credit cards as payment or facilitate other methods of payment for our paid subscription plans. Substantial losses due to fraud or our inability to accept credit card or other electronic payments would cause our customer base to significantly decrease and would harm our business. We may engage in merger and acquisition activities, which would require significant management attention, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As part of our business strategy to expand our platform and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demand, and competitive pressures, we may in the future make investments or acquisitions in other companies, products, or technologies. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve the goals of such acquisition, and any acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively by customers or investors. We may encounter difficult or unforeseen expenditures in integrating an acquisition, particularly if we cannot retain the key personnel of the acquired company. Existing and potential customers may also delay or reduce their use of our platform due to a concern that the acquisition may decrease effectiveness of our platform (including any newly acquired product). In addition, if we fail to successfully integrate such acquisitions, or the assets, technologies, or personnel associated with such acquisitions, into our company, the business and results of operations of the combined company would be adversely affected. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from their primary responsibilities, subject us to additional liabilities, increase our expenses, subject us to increased regulatory requirements, cause adverse tax consequences or unfavorable accounting treatment, expose us to claims and disputes by stockholders and third parties, and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology and accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. We may have to pay cash for any such acquisition which would limit other potential uses for our cash. If we incur debt to fund any such acquisition, such debt may subject us to material restrictions in our ability to conduct our business, result in increased fixed obligations, and subject us to covenants or other restrictions that would decrease our operational flexibility and impede our ability to manage our operations. If we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders ownership would be diluted. Risks Related to Government Regulation and Legal Matters, including Taxation and Intellectual Property We may become subject to intellectual property rights claims and other litigation that are expensive to support, and if resolved adversely, could have a material adverse effect on us. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities, including non-practicing entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. As we face increasing competition and our public profile increases, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us may also increase. From time to time, our competitors or other third parties have claimed, and may in the future claim, that we are infringing upon, misappropriating, or violating their intellectual property rights, even if we are unaware of the intellectual property rights that such parties may claim cover our platform or some or all of the other technologies we use in our business. 33 Table of Contents The costs of supporting such litigation, regardless of merit, are considerable, and such litigation may divert management and key personnels attention and resources, which might seriously harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may be required to settle such litigation on terms that are unfavorable to us. For example, a settlement may require us to obtain a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third partys rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms and may significantly increase our operating expenses. A license to continue such practices may not be available to us at all. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology or practices or discontinue the practices. The development of alternative non-infringing technology or practices would require significant effort and expense. Similarly, if any litigation to which we may be a party fails to settle and we go to trial, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment which may not be reversible upon appeal. For example, the terms of a judgment may require us to cease some or all of our operations or require the payment of substantial amounts to the other party. Any of these events would cause our business and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected as a result. We are also frequently required to indemnify our reseller partners and customers in the event of any third-party infringement claims against our customers and third parties who offer our platform, and such indemnification obligations may be excluded from contractual limitation of liability provisions that limit our exposure. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers and reseller partners, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers and reseller partners, may be required to modify our allegedly infringing platform to make it non-infringing, or may be required to obtain licenses for the products used. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our platform, and our reseller partners may be forced to stop selling our platform. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our intellectual property rights and proprietary information. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, patent, and trade secret protection laws to protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary information. Additionally, we maintain a policy requiring our employees, consultants, independent contractors, and third parties who are engaged to develop any material intellectual property for us to enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements to control access to and use of our proprietary information and to ensure that any intellectual property developed by such employees, contractors, consultants, and other third parties are assigned to us. However, we cannot guarantee that the confidentiality and proprietary agreements or other employee, consultant, or independent contractor agreements we enter into adequately protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary information. In addition, we cannot guarantee that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that the applicable counter-parties to such agreements will not assert rights to our intellectual property rights or other proprietary information arising out of these relationships. Furthermore, the steps we have taken and may take in the future may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary solutions or technologies, particularly with respect to officers and employees who are no longer employed by us. Furthermore, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe or circumvent our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement without incurring substantial expense. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights would be costly, time-consuming, and distracting to management and key personnel, and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. If the protection of our intellectual property rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished and competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our platform and methods of operations. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents Our failure to obtain or maintain the right to use certain of our intellectual property would negatively affect our business. Our future success and competitive position depends in part upon our ability to obtain or maintain certain intellectual property used in our platform. While we have been issued patents for certain aspects of our intellectual property in the United States and have additional patent applications pending in the United States, we have not applied for patent protection in foreign jurisdictions, and may be unable to obtain patent protection for the technology covered in our patent applications. In addition, we cannot ensure that any of the patent applications will be approved or that the claims allowed on any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or platform and provide us with competitive advantages. Furthermore, any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. Many patent applications in the United States may not be public for a period of time after they are filed, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or that we will be the first to file patent applications on such inventions. Because some patent applications may not be public for a period of time, there is also a risk that we could adopt a technology without knowledge of a pending patent application, which technology would infringe a third-party patent once that patent is issued. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, and independent contractors to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation, or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how, or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our business would be materially adversely affected. We rely on our trademarks, trade names, and brand names to distinguish our solutions from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks in the United States and certain countries outside the United States. However, occasionally third parties may have already registered identical or similar marks for products or solutions that also address the software market. As we rely in part on brand names and trademark protection to enforce our intellectual property rights, efforts by third parties to limit use of our brand names or trademarks and barriers to the registration of brand names and trademarks in various countries may restrict our ability to promote and maintain a cohesive brand throughout our key markets. There can also be no assurance that pending or future U.S. or foreign trademark applications will be approved in a timely manner or at all, or that such registrations will effectively protect our brand names and trademarks. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our platform, which would result in loss of brand recognition and would require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Any future litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. We have in the past and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings, demands, and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. We (including our officers and directors) could be sued or face regulatory action for a number of issues, including defamation, civil rights infringement, breach of fiduciary duty, negligence, intellectual property rights infringement, violations of privacy, data protection or security laws, personal injury, product liability, regulatory compliance, or other legal claims relating to information that is published or made available via our platform. Litigation might result in substantial costs and may divert management and key personnels attention and resources, which might seriously harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Insurance might not cover such claims, might not provide sufficient payments to cover all the costs to resolve one or more such claims, and might not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 35 Table of Contents Our use of open source and third-party software could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions and couldsubject us to possible litigation. A portion of the technologies we use in our platform and mobile application incorporates open source software, and we may incorporate open source software in our platform and mobile application in the future. From time to time, companies that use third-party open source software have faced claims challenging the use of such open source software and their compliance with the terms of the applicable open source license. We may be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software, or claiming non-compliance with the applicable open source licensing terms. Some open source licenses require end-users who distribute or make available across a network software and services that include open source software to make available all or part of such software, which in some circumstances could include valuable proprietary code, at no cost, or license such code under the terms of the particular open source license. While we employ practices designed to monitor our compliance with the licenses of third-party open source software and protect our valuable proprietary source code, we may inadvertently use third-party open source software in a manner that exposes us to claims of non-compliance with the applicable terms of such license, including claims for infringement of intellectual property rights or for breach of contract. Additionally, if a third-party software provider has incorporated open source software into software that we license from such provider, we could be required to disclose source code that incorporates or is a modification of such licensed software. Furthermore, there is an increasing number of open source software license types, almost none of which have been tested in a court of law, resulting in a dearth of guidance regarding the proper legal interpretation of such license types. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software that we use or license were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of the applicable open source license, we could expend substantial time and resources to re-engineer some or all of our software or be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the sale of our platform that contained the open source software, and required to comply with the foregoing conditions, including public release of certain portions of our proprietary source code. In addition, the use of third-party open source software typically exposes us to greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software because open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the functionality or origin of the software. Use of open source software may also present additional security risks because the public availability of such software may make it easier for hackers and other third parties to determine how to compromise our platform. Any of the foregoing could be harmful to our business, financial condition, or operating results. We rely on software licensed from third parties to offer our platform. In addition, we may need to obtain future licenses from third parties to use intellectual property rights associated with the development of our platform, which might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any third-party software required for the development and maintenance of our platform or mobile application could result in loss of functionality or availability of our platform or mobile application until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained, and integrated. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or a failure of our platform or mobile application. Any of the foregoing would disrupt the distribution and sale of subscriptions to our platform and harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We, and the third parties with whom we work, are subject to stringent and evolving U.S. and foreign laws, regulations, rules, contractual obligations, industry standards, policies and other obligations related to artificial intelligence, privacy, data protection, and security. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations (or such failure by the third parties with whom we work) could lead to regulatory investigations or actions; litigation; fines and penalties; disruptions of our business operations; reputational harm; loss of revenue or profits; and other adverse business consequences. We receive, process, store, and use business and personal information belonging to individuals who interact with Asana, including our users and prospective, current, and former customers. There are numerous federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, security and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure, and protection of business and personal information, including personal information privacy laws, state data breach notification laws, consumer protection laws (e.g., Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act) and other similar laws (e.g., wiretapping laws). These laws continue to evolve in scope and are subject to 36 Table of Contents differing interpretations, and may contain inconsistencies or pose conflicts with other legal requirements. Preparing for and attempting to comply with these laws and other obligations requires significant resources and, potentially, changes to our technologies, systems, and practices and those of any third parties that process personal information on our behalf. We seek to comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, legal obligations, contracts, and industry standards and have developed privacy notices and policies, data processing addenda, and internal privacy procedures to reflect such compliance. However, it is possible that these obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. Failure or perceived failure by us (or third parties with whom we work) to comply with our privacy notices and policies, privacy-related obligations to users, customers, or other third parties, or privacy or security-related legal obligations, or any data compromise that results in the accidental or unauthorized release, misuse, or transfer of business or personal information or other user or customer data, may result in domestic or foreign governmental enforcement actions, investigations, penalties, audits, inspections, fines, injunctions (including bans or restrictions on processing personal data, and orders to destroy or not use personal information), litigation, or public statements against us by our users, customers, consumers, regulators, consumer advocacy groups, or others, additional reporting requirements and/or oversight; which would have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. We could also incur significant costs investigating and defending such claims and, if we are found liable, significant damages. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, or financial condition, including but not limited to: loss of customers; interruptions or stoppages in our business operations; inability to process personal information or to operate in certain jurisdictions; limited ability to develop or commercialize our products; expenditure of time and resources to defend any claim or inquiry; adverse publicity; or substantial changes to our business model or operations. Foreign privacy, data protection, and security laws have become more stringent in recent years, are undergoing a period of rapid change, and increase the costs and complexity of offering our products and services in new and existing geographies. For example, the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation 2019/679 (the EU GDPR), the EU GDPR as it forms part of United Kingdom (UK) law by virtue of section 3 of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 (UK GDPR), Australias Privacy Act, and Canadas Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, impose strict requirements for processing personal information. European privacy, data protection, and security laws, including the EU GDPR and UK GDPR impose significant and complex burdens on processing personal information, provide for robust regulatory enforcement, and contemplate significant penalties for noncompliance. Non-compliance with the EU GDPR and UK GDPR can trigger fines of up to the greater of 20 million (17.5 million for the UK GDPR) or 4% of our global revenues, restrictions or prohibitions on data processing, and exposure to private right of action and enforcement mechanisms including extensive audit and inspection rights, or private litigation related to processing of personal information brought by classes of data subjects or consumer protection organizations authorized at law to represent their interests. Globally, certain jurisdictions have enacted data residency or data localization laws and have imposed requirements for cross-border transfers of personal information. For example, the cross-border transfer landscape in Europe is complex and other countries outside of Europe have enacted or are considering enacting cross-border data transfer restrictions and laws requiring data residency or other restrictions around the location of the storage and processing of data, which could increase the cost and complexity of doing business. The EU GDPR generally restricts the transfer of personal information to countries outside of the EEA, such as the United States, which are not considered by the European Commission to provide an adequate level of privacy, data protection, and security. In addition, Swiss and UK law contain similar data transfer restrictions as the EU GDPR. Although there are currently valid mechanisms available to transfer data from the EEA and the UK to the United States in compliance with law, such as the EEA standard contractual clauses, the UKs International Data Transfer Agreement / Addendum, and the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework and the UK extension thereto (which allows for transfers to relevant U.S.-based organizations who self-certify compliance and participate in the Framework), these mechanisms are subject to legal challenges and there remains some uncertainty regarding the future of these cross-border data transfers. If we cannot implement a valid compliance mechanism for cross-border personal information transfers, we may face increased exposure to regulatory actions, substantial fines, and injunctions against processing or transferring personal information from the EEA, UK, or elsewhere. Inability to import personal information to the 37 Table of Contents United States may significantly and negatively impact our business operations, including limiting our ability to collaborate with service providers, contractors, and other companies subject to European and other privacy, data protection, and security laws; or requiring us to increase our data processing capabilities in Europe or elsewhere at significant expense. Furthermore, rules regarding the use of online cookies and similar online trackers in the European Union are becoming more stringent in terms of the advance consent companies must obtain from data subjects before such trackers can be placed on browsers. Other regions of the world have likewise adopted privacy regulations that may result in increased restrictions on cookie collection and use, and fines for noncompliance. Partially as a result of these developments, individuals are becoming increasingly resistant to the collection, use, and sharing of personal information to deliver targeted advertising or analytics. Individuals are now more aware of options related to consent, do not track mechanisms (such as browser signals from the Global Privacy Control), and ad-blocking software to prevent the collection of their personal information for targeted advertising and analytics purposes. These developments may also impact our analytics and advertising activities and our ability to analyze how users interact with our services. We may be required to change the way we market our products, and any of these developments or changes could materially impair our ability to reach new or existing customers or otherwise negatively affect our operations. In addition to the European Union, a growing number of other global jurisdictions, such as Brazil, Japan, India and Canada, are considering or have passed legislation implementing privacy, data protection, and security requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data or similar requirements that could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our platform, particularly as we expand our operations internationally. Some of these laws, such as the General Data Protection Law in Brazil, or the Act on the Protection of Personal Information in Japan, impose similar obligations as those under the EU GDPR. Domestic privacy, data protection, security, and consumer protection legislation is also becoming increasingly common in the United States. For example, numerous U.S. states have enacted comprehensive privacy laws that impose certain obligations on covered businesses, including providing specific disclosures in privacy notices and affording residents with certain rights concerning their personal information such as the right to access, correct, or delete certain personal information, and to opt-out of certain data processing activities, such as targeted advertising, profiling, and automated decision-making. The exercise of these rights may impact our business and ability to provide our products and services. Certain states also impose stricter requirements for processing certain personal information, including sensitive information, such as conducting data privacy impact assessments. These state laws allow for statutory fines for noncompliance. For example, the CCPA requires companies that process information of consumers, business representatives, and employees who are California residents to provide specific disclosures in privacy notices and honor requests of such individuals to exercise certain individual privacy rights. The CCPA provides for fines for intentional violations and allows private litigants affected by certain data breaches to recover significant statutory damages. Similar laws are being considered in other states and at the federal and local levels, and we expect more states to pass similar laws in the future. The enactment of such laws could have potentially conflicting requirements that would make compliance challenging, and increase legal risk and compliance costs for us and the third parties with whom we work. Furthermore, the Federal Trade Commission and many state attorneys general continue to enforce federal and state consumer protection laws against companies and individuals for online data collection, use, dissemination, and security and privacy practices that appear to be unfair or deceptive. We also publish privacy policies, marketing materials, white papers, and other statements, such as statements related to compliance with certain certifications or self-regulatory principles, concerning privacy, data protection, and security. If these policies, materials or statements are found to be deficient, lacking in transparency, deceptive, unfair, misleading, or misrepresentative of our practices, we may become subject to investigation, enforcement actions by regulators, or other adverse consequences. Additionally, under various privacy laws and other obligations, we may be required to obtain certain consents to process personal information. For example, some of our data processing practices have been, and may in the future continue to be, subject to challenges or lawsuits under privacy, data protection, and communications laws, including, for example, challenges based on wiretapping laws for sharing consumer information with third parties through 38 Table of Contents various methods, including chatbot and session replay providers, or via third-party marketing pixels. Our inability or failure to obtain consent for these practices could result in adverse consequences, including class action litigation and mass arbitration demands. There are a number of legislative proposals in the United States, at both the federal and state level, and in the European Union and more globally, that could impose new obligations in areas such as e-commerce and other related legislation or liability for copyright infringement by third parties. We cannot yet determine the impact that future laws, regulations, and standards may have on our business. In addition to privacy, data protection, and security laws, we are or may become contractually subject to industry standards adopted by industry groups and may become subject to such obligations in the future. We are also bound by other contractual obligations related to privacy, data protection, and security, and our efforts to comply with such obligations may not be successful. We use artificial intelligence, including generative artificial intelligence, in our products and services. The development and use of artificial intelligence present various privacy, data protection, and security risks that may impact our business. Artificial intelligence technology is subject to existing privacy, data protection, and security laws, and may be subject to additional new laws and regulations. For example, several countries, states and localities have proposed or enacted measures related to the use of artificial intelligence technologies in products and services, including the EUs AI Act. The effects of these regulations are difficult to predict and we expect other jurisdictions to adopt similar laws. Additionally, certain privacy laws extend rights to consumers (such as the right to delete certain personal information) and regulate automated decision making, which may be incompatible with our use of artificial intelligence. These obligations may make it harder for us to conduct our business using artificial intelligence, lead to regulatory fines or penalties, require us to change our business practices, retrain our artificial intelligence, or prevent or limit our use of artificial intelligence. For example, the FTC has required other companies to turn over (or disgorge) valuable insights or trainings generated through the use of artificial intelligence where they allege the company has violated privacy and/or consumer protection laws. If we cannot use artificial intelligence or that use is restricted, our business may be less efficient, or we may be at a competitive disadvantage. We are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and similar laws, and our failure to comply with these laws could subject us to criminal penalties or significant fines and harm our business and reputation. We are subject to anti-corruption and anti-bribery and similar laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. 201, U.S. Travel Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, and other anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and anti-money laundering laws in countries in which we conduct activities. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly and prohibit companies and their employees and agents from promising, authorizing, making, or offering improper payments or other benefits to government officials and others in the private sector. As we increase our international sales and business, our risks under these laws may increase. Noncompliance with these laws could subject us to investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, other enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, significant fines, damages, other civil and criminal penalties or injunctions, adverse media coverage, and other consequences. Any investigations, actions, or sanctions could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to various export, import, and trade and economic sanction laws and regulations that could impair our ability to compete in international markets and subject us to liability for noncompliance. Our business activities are subject to various export, import, and trade and economic sanction laws and regulations, including, among others, the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, administered by the Department of Commerces Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS), and economic and trade sanctions regulations maintained by the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) which we refer to collectively as Trade Controls. These Trade Controls, which may be enacted at any time, may prohibit or restrict the sale or supply of certain products, including encryption items and other technology, and services to certain governments, persons, entities, countries, and territories, including those that are the target of comprehensive sanctions. We must be ready to evaluate and respond to these Trade Controls and assess their impact on our business, which can be 39 Table of Contents difficult to ascertain. We incorporate encryption technology into our platform, which may subject its export outside of the United States to various export authorization requirements, including licensing, compliance with license exceptions, or other appropriate government authorization, including the filing of an encryption classification request or self-classification report with the U.S. Commerce Department. In addition, various other countries regulate the import and export of certain encryption and other technology, including through import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our platform or could limit the ability of organizations to use our platform in those countries. While we have implemented controls designed to promote and achieve compliance with applicable Trade Controls, in the past we may have inadvertently provided certain services to some customers in apparent violation of U.S. sanctions laws and exported software and source code prior to submitting required filings and obtaining authorization from BIS regarding exports of our software. As a result, we submitted voluntary self-disclosures concerning these activities to OFAC and BIS. On June 29, 2020, BIS determined not to pursue a civil monetary penalty against us and issued a warning letter to resolve our voluntary self-disclosure regarding past apparent inadvertent violations of the U.S. Export Administration Regulations. On February 25, 2021, OFAC determined not to pursue a civil monetary penalty against us or take other enforcement action and issued a cautionary letter to resolve our voluntary self-disclosure regarding past apparent inadvertent violations of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, the Syrian Sanctions Regulations, the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, and the Sudanese Sanctions Regulations. While the letters from BIS and OFAC represent final enforcement responses in each case, they do not preclude either BIS or OFAC from taking future enforcement actions under their respective authorities. Although we seek to conduct our business in full compliance with Trade Controls, we cannot guarantee that these controls will be fully effective. Violations of Trade Controls may subject our company, including responsible personnel, to various adverse consequences, including civil or criminal penalties, government investigations, and loss of export privileges. Further, obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required licenses, for particular transactions or uses of our platform may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed, and may result in the delay or loss of customers or sales opportunities. In addition, if our reseller partners fail to obtain any required import, export, or re-export licenses or permits, this could result in a violation of law by us, and we may also suffer reputational harm and other negative consequences, including government investigations and penalties. Finally, changes in our platform or future changes in Trade Controls, such as those we have seen issued by the United States and other governments in response to the conflicts between Ukraine and Russia and in the Middle East, could result in our inability to provide our platform to certain customers or decreased use of our platform by existing or potential customers with international operations. For example, on June 12, 2024, OFAC issued a determination imposing new restrictions on the export, reexport, sale, or supply of IT support and cloud-based services for enterprise management software and design and manufacturing software to persons located in Russia, which went into effect on September 12, 2024. We continue to evaluate these Trade Controls sanctions and their potential applicability to our products and services; however, we are unable to quantitatively estimate any impacts to our business at this time. Any decreased use of our platform or mobile application or increased limitations on our ability to export or sell our platform and mobile application would adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Changes in tax laws or regulations could be enacted or existing tax laws or regulations could be applied to us or our customers in a manner that could increase the costs of our platform and harm our business. Income, sales, use, value added, or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations, or ordinances could be enacted or amended at any time (possibly with retroactive effect), and could be applied solely or disproportionately to products and services provided over the internet. These enactments or amendments could reduce our sales activity due to the inherent cost increase the taxes would represent and ultimately harm our results of operations and cash flows. The application of U.S. federal, state, local, and international tax laws to services provided electronically is unclear and continuously evolving. Existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations, or ordinances could be interpreted or applied adversely to us, possibly with retroactive effect, which could require us or our customers to pay additional tax amounts, as well as require us or our customers to pay fines or penalties, as well as interest for past amounts. If 40 Table of Contents we are unsuccessful in collecting such taxes due from our customers, we would be held liable for such costs, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and harming our business. We may be subject to taxation in several jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. Although we have only been required to pay income and value-added taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions to date, the amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws, or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which could harm our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, the authorities in these jurisdictions could review our tax filings and impose additional tax, interest, and penalties, and the authorities could claim that various withholding requirements apply to us or our subsidiaries or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries, any of which would harm us and our results of operations. Our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be harmed if we are required to collect sales, value added, or other related taxes for subscriptions to our platform in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so. We collect sales taxes and value added taxes in a number of jurisdictions. One or more states or countries may seek to impose incremental or new sales, use, value added, or other tax collection obligations on us. A successful assertion by a state, country, or other jurisdiction that we should have been or should be collecting additional sales, use, value added, or other taxes could, among other things, result in substantial tax payments, create significant administrative burdens for us, discourage potential customers from subscribing to our platform due to the incremental cost of any such sales, value added, or other related taxes, or otherwise harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. We do not expect to become profitable in the near future, may never achieve profitability, and have incurred substantial net operating losses (NOLs) during our history. In general, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an ownership change is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs or tax credits to offset future taxable income or taxes. For these purposes, an ownership change generally occurs where the aggregate change in stock ownership by one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders owning at least 5% of a corporations stock exceeds more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. We have experienced ownership changes since inception and our utilization of net operating loss carryforwards will be subject to annual limitations. However, it is not expected that the annual limitations will result in the expiration of tax attribute carryforwards prior to utilization. We may experience additional ownership changes in connection with subsequent shifts in our stock ownership (some of which shifts are outside our control). As a result, even if we attain profitability, we may be unable to use a material portion of our NOLs and other tax attributes. Risks Related to Our Capital Allocation Strategy We may need additional capital, and we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available. Historically, we have financed our operations and capital expenditures primarily through sales of our capital stock and debt securities that are convertible into our capital stock. In the future, we may raise additional capital through additional debt or equity financings to support our business growth, to respond to business opportunities, challenges, competitions, or unforeseen circumstances, or for other reasons. On an ongoing basis, we are evaluating sources of financing and may need to raise additional capital in the future. Our ability to obtain additional capital will depend on our development efforts, business plans, investor demand, operating performance, the condition of the capital markets, and other factors. If the overall economy is negatively impacted for an extended period, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. In addition, a severe prolonged economic downturn could result in a variety of risks to the business, including weakening our ability to develop potential businesses and a decreased ability to raise additional capital when needed on acceptable terms, if at all. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked, or debt securities, those securities may 41 Table of Contents have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to the rights of existing stockholders, and existing stockholders may experience dilution. Further, if we are unable to obtain additional capital when required, or are unable to obtain additional capital on satisfactory terms, our ability to continue to support our business growth or to respond to business opportunities, challenges, competition, or unforeseen circumstances would be adversely affected. Our operating activities may be restricted as a result of covenants related to the indebtedness under our November 2022 Senior Secured Credit Facility, and we may be required to repay the outstanding indebtedness in an event of default, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, future operational challenges on the part of our lender could impact our ability to quickly access additional liquidity. On November 7, 2022, we entered into an agreement with several banks and other financial institutions or entities for which Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) acted as issuing lender, administrative agent and collateral agent, under which we may incur loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $150 million, consisting of a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount equal to $50 million and a revolving loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $100 million, including a $30 million letter of credit sub-facility (collectively and as amended on April 13, 2023, June 18, 2024, and November 18, 2024, the November 2022 Senior Secured Credit Facility). On March 27, 2023, First Citizens BancShares, Inc. (First Citizens) announced that it had entered into an agreement to purchase assets and liabilities of SVB, inclusive of our November 2022 Senior Secured Credit Facility. We continue to have the ability to make additional borrowings under the November 2022 Senior Secured Credit Facility, which is now held by SVB as a division of First Citizens. Additionally, the November 2022 Senior Secured Credit Facility includes customary conditions to borrowing and covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur liens, incur indebtedness, make or hold investments, execute certain change of control transactions, business combinations or other fundamental changes to the business, dispose of assets, make certain types of restricted payments or enter into certain related party transactions, subject to customary exceptions. In addition, the November 2022 Senior Secured Credit Facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain a consolidated adjusted quick ratio of 1.25 to 1.00, as well as a minimum cash adjusted EBITDA, each tested on a quarterly basis. The November 2022 Senior Secured Credit Facility contains customary events of default relating to, among other things, payment defaults, breach of covenants, cross acceleration to material indebtedness, bankruptcy-related defaults, judgment defaults, and the occurrence of certain change of control events. Non-compliance with one or more of the covenants and restrictions or the occurrence of an event of default could result in the full or partial principal balance of the November 2022 Senior Secured Credit Facility becoming immediately due and payable and termination of the commitments. Our business may be adversely affected by these restrictions on our ability to operate our business. General Risks Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. A failure to establish and maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, could adversely affect our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure