Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to AST SPACEMOBILE, INC. (formerly known as New Providence Acquisition Corp.). References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to New Providence Management LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements for the purposes of federal securities laws that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on May 28, 2019 and as of March 31, 2021, we were still operating with for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination). On April 6, 2021 (the Closing Date), we completed the previously announced business combination pursuant to that certain Equity Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2020 (the Equity Purchase Agreement), by and among NPA, AST & Science LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (AST), the existing equityholders of AST, New Providence Acquisition Management LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (Sponsor), and Abel Avellan. Immediately, upon the completion of the Business Combination, NPA was renamed AST SpaceMobile, Inc. and AST became a subsidiary of the AST SpaceMobile, Inc. We are an early stage and emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with early stage and emerging growth companies. As indicated in the accompanying financial statements, at March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, we had $50,052,736 and $131,151 in cash, respectively, and working capital of $48,292,140 and a working capital deficit of $337,484, respectively, which excludes prepaid income taxes and franchise taxes payable as the net amounts can be paid from the interest earned in the trust account, respectively. Recent Developments On April 6, 2021 the Closing Date, NPA, completed the previously announced business combination pursuant to that certain Equity Purchase Agreement, by and among NPA, AST, the existing equityholders of AST, New Providence Acquisition Management LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (Sponsor), and Abel Avellan. As contemplated by the Equity Purchase Agreement (a) NPA was appointed as the managing member of AST and AST became a subsidiary of NPA; (b) NPA changed its name to AST SpaceMobile, Inc.; (c) immediately prior to the closing of the Business Combination, all then-outstanding shares of Class B common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of NPA (NPA Class B Common Stock) held by Sponsor (the Sponsor Stock) converted into shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of NPA (NPA Class A Common Stock) immediately prior to the Business Combination; (d) each share of NPA Class A Common Stock, including those converted as described in (c) above, was converted into one share of Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of the Company (Class A Common Stock), and each warrant of NPA (an NPA Warrant) was converted into one warrant of the Company (a Warrant); (e) AST restructured its capitalization, appointed the Company as its managing member and issued to the Company 51,729,704 units of ownership interest in AST (the AST Common Units), which entitle the holder to the distributions, allocations, and other rights under the Fifth Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Operating Agreement of AST (the A&R Operating Agreement), in exchange for which AST received approximately $227.0 million remaining in NPAs trust account following (i) the $4.8 million payment of deferred underwriting commissions (ii) $0.2 million of redemptions made in connection with NPAs special meeting of stockholders relating to the transactions contemplated by the Equity Purchase Agreement (the Special Meeting) and NPAs annual meeting of stockholders to approve, among other things, a charter amendment to extend the date by which it had to complete an initial business combination and (iii) the repayment of a $0.6 million related party loan between the Sponsor and NPA; (f) AST issued to the Company warrants to purchase up to 17,600,000 AST Common Units; (g); certain investors (the PIPE Investors) purchased 23,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock; (h) the Company issued 51,636,922 shares of Class B common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of the Company, which carries one vote per share but no economic rights (Class B Common Stock) to the Existing AST Equityholders (other than Avellan); and (i) the Company issued 78,163,078 shares of Class C common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of the Company, which carries ten votes per share but no economic rights (Class C Common Stock) to Avellan (the transactions referred to in clauses (a) through (i), collectively, the Business Combination). As a result of the Business Combination, the Company is organized in an Up-C structure in which substantially all of the operating assets of ASTs business are held by AST, and the Companys only assets are its equity interests in AST. As of the open of trading on April 7, 2021, the Class A Common Stock and Warrants of AST SpaceMobile, Inc., formerly those of NPA, began trading on The Nasdaq Capital Market (Nasdaq) as ASTS and ASTSW, respectively. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities March 31, 2021 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and, after our Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had net income of $597,052, which consisted of interest income on marketable securities held in the trust account of $21,197, changes in fair value of warrant liabilities of $2,028,000, offset by operating costs of $1,434,836 and a provision for income taxes of $17,309. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we had net income of $7,772,252, which consisted of interest income on marketable securities held in the trust account of $886,099, changes in fair value of warrant liabilities of $6,925,000, and an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our trust account of $371,628, offset by operating costs of $185,257 and a provision for income taxes of $225,218. 15 Liquidity and Capital Resources On September 13, 2019, we completed the Initial Public Offering of 20,000,000 Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $200,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we completed the sale of 5,500,000 Private Placement Warrants to the Sponsor at a price of $1.00 per warrant, generating gross proceeds of $5,500,000. On September 19, 2019, in connection with the underwriters full exercise of their over-allotment option, we completed the sale of an additional 3,000,000 Units and the sale of an additional 600,000 Private Placement Warrants, generating total gross proceeds of $30,600,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $230,000,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $13,260,927 in transaction costs, including $4,600,000 of underwriting fees, $8,050,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $610,927 of other costs. As of March 31, 2021, we had marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $231,913,996 (including $21,197 of interest income) consisting of U.S. Treasury Bills with a maturity of 180 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we withdrew $303,228 of interest earned on the Trust Account to pay our franchise and income taxes. Cash was $50,052,736 as of March 31, 2021 as a result of an early deposit of $50,000,000 into our operating account by certain private investment of public entity investors (PIPE Investors). In anticipation of a proxy vote to approve the AST Business Combination, certain PIPE Investors made the deposit in advance of the merger being approved. Although cash in our operating account increased by the early deposit, we also recorded a corresponding offset to Deposit from investors within liabilities recorded on our balance sheet. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $862,237. Net income of $597,052 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $21,197, a $2,028,000 gain on the change in fair value of the warrant liability, a deferred tax benefit of $9,680 and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which provided $599,588 of cash. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2021. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, administrative and support services to the Company. We began incurring these fees on September 11, 2019 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and the Companys liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per unit, or $8,050,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. 16 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our condensed balance sheets. Net Income Per Share of Common Stock We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Common stock subject to possible redemption which is not currently redeemable and is not redeemable at fair value, has been excluded from the calculation of basic net income per common share since such shares, if redeemed, only participate in their pro rata share of the Trust Account earnings. Our net income is adjusted for the portion of income that is attributable to common stock subject to possible redemption, as these shares only participate in the earnings of the Trust Account and not our income or losses. Warrant Liabilities The Company accounts for warrants as either equity-classified or liability-classified instruments based on an assessment of the warrants specific terms and applicable authoritative guidance in the ASC 480 and ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). Managements assessment considers whether the warrants are freestanding financial instruments pursuant to ASC 480, whether they meet the definition of a liability pursuant to ASC 480, and whether the warrants meet all of the requirements for equity classification under ASC 815, including whether the warrants are indexed to the Companys own common stock and whether the warrant holders could potentially require net cash settlement in a circumstance outside of the Companys control, among other conditions for equity classification. This assessment, which requires the use of professional judgment, is conducted at the time of warrant issuance and as of each subsequent quarterly period-end date while the warrants are outstanding. For issued or modified warrants that meet all of the criteria for equity classification, they are recorded as a component of additional paid-in capital at the time of issuance. For issued or modified warrants that do not meet all the criteria for equity classification, they are recorded at their initial fair value on the date of issuance and subject to remeasurement each balance sheet date with changes in the estimated fair value of the warrants to be recognized as a non-cash gain or loss in the statement of operations. The Public Warrants as of March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 are classified as Level 1 due to the use of an observable market quote in an active market under the ticker ASTSW. The Private Warrants are valued using a Black-Scholes-Merton Model. As of March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 the Private Warrants are classified as Level 2 as the transfer of Private Warrants to anyone outside of a small group of individuals who are permitted transferees would result in the Private Placement Warrants having substantially the same terms as the Public Warrants. For this reason, the Company determined that the volatility of each Private Warrant is equivalent to that of each Public Warrant. The Companys Black-Scholes-Merton model to value Private Warrants required the use of the following subjective assumptions inputs: The risk-free interest rate assumption was based on the five-year U.S. Treasury rate, which was commensurate with the contractual term of the Warrants, which expire on the earlier of (i) five years after the completion of the initial business combination and (ii) upon redemption or liquidation. An increase in the risk-free interest rate, in isolation, would result in an increase in the fair value measurement of the warrant liabilities and vice versa. The expected term was determined to be one year, as the Warrants become exercisable on the later of (i) 30 days after the completion of a business combination and (ii) 12 months from the Initial Public Offering date. An increase in the expected term, in isolation, would result in an increase in the fair value measurement of the warrant liabilities and vice versa. The expected volatility assumption was based on the implied volatility of the Companys publicly-traded warrants. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements.