Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are an innovative satellite designer and manufacturer. We operate from six locations that include our corporate headquarters and 185,000 square foot satellite assembly, integrating and testing facilities in Texas, and engineering and development locations in Maryland, Spain, the United Kingdom, and Israel. Also, our 51% owned and controlled subsidiary, NanoAvionika UAB (Nano), is headquartered in Lithuania. We and our global partners are building what we believe is the first space-based cellular broadband network designed to be accessible by standard mobile phones. Our SpaceMobile Service is expected to provide cost-effective, high-speed mobile broadband services with global coverage to all end-users, regardless of where they live or work, without the need to purchase special equipment. We believe the SpaceMobile Service would be the first global direct mobile broadband network using LEO satellites to provide connectivity to any standard, unmodified, off-the-shelf mobile phone or 2G/3G/4G LTE/5G and IoT-enabled device. We intend to partner with Mobile Network Operators ("MNOs") to offer the SpaceMobile Service to the MNOs end-user customers. Our vision is that users will not need to subscribe to the SpaceMobile Service directly with us, nor will they need to purchase any new or additional equipment. Instead, users will be able to access the SpaceMobile Service when prompted on their mobile device that they are no longer within range of the land-based facilities of the MNO operator or will be able to purchase a plan directly with their existing mobile provider. The SpaceMobile Service currently is planned to be provided through a network of 168 high-powered, large phased-array satellites in LEO. The worldwide mobile traffic will be directed by the SpaceMobile constellation to terrestrial gateways via high throughput Q/V-band links and then directed to the in-country MNOs core cellular network infrastructure, located at our dedicated gateways. Our intent is that users will be able to connect to the SpaceMobile Service as if they were using a local cell tower, with less communication delay effects than existing geostationary satellite communication systems experience. On April 1, 2019, we launched our first test satellite, BW1, which was used to validate our satellite to cellular architecture and was capable of managing communications delays from LEO orbit and the effects of doppler in a satellite to ground cellular environment using the 4G-LTE protocol. We are currently completing the assembly and testing of our BW3 test satellite. The BW3 test satellite has an aperture of 693 square feet and is designed to communicate directly with mobile phones via 3GPP standard frequencies. As of March 31, 2022, we have incurred approximately $82.7 million of capitalized costs (including launch cost and non-recurring engineering costs) related to the construction and testing of the BW3 test satellite. The BW3 test satellite is substantially complete having undergone over 700 tests of its capabilities and systems and is targeted to launch in the Summer of 2022. However, the exact timing of such launch is contingent on a number of factors, including satisfactory and timely completion of testing of BW3. 23 We are also currently developing and designing our constellation of BlueBird ("BB") satellites. We currently plan to begin launching the first commercial BB satellites in the second quarter of 2023 and expect this to continue through 2025. We currently plan to achieve substantial global mobile coverage after the launch of a total of 110 satellites by the end of 2024 and MIMO capabilities during 2025 after the launch of a total of 168 satellites. Our current plan is subject to numerous uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including, satisfactory and timely completion of assembly and testing of the satellites, availability of launch windows by the launch providers, proposed orbits and resulting satellite coverage, launch costs, ability to enter into agreements with MNOs, regulatory approvals, and other factors. Accordingly, we may adopt a deployment strategy that may differ materially from our current plan. The SpaceMobile Service has not yet generated revenue and is not expected to generate revenue until after the commercial launch of the SpaceMobile Service. After we begin to launch and deploy our BB satellites during 2023, we may seek to generate revenue during 2023 by providing a limited SpaceMobile Service in certain countries. The limited SpaceMobile Service would not be available on a continuous basis and our ability to offer such limited services is dependent upon numerous factors, including execution of definitive commercial agreements with MNOs, agreement by MNOs to provide limited services to their end-user customers, end-user customer acceptance, pricing, availability of active satellites over the applicable countries, regulatory approvals, and other factors. As we continue to launch and deploy additional BB satellites during 2024 and 2025, we expect to generate revenue after the commercial launch of the SpaceMobile Service in certain geographical locations beginning in 2024. On March 3, 2022, AST LLC entered into a Multi-Launch Agreement with SpaceX which provides a framework for future launches of the Companys satellites through December 31, 2024, including the launches of the BW3 test satellite and the first BB satellite. As part of the Multi-Launch Agreement, the Company and SpaceX agreed on a framework for additional launch service agreements relating to the launch of future BB satellites. In connection with entry into the Multi-Launch Agreement, the Company paid an aggregate amount of $22.8 million for BW3 launch cost, first BB initial payment and launch reservation fee for a future BB launch. The exact timing of the satellite launches is contingent on a number of factors, including satisfactory and timely completion of construction and testing. The Multi-Launch Agreement permits the Company to delay launches of its satellites upon payment of certain rebooking fees. We are currently industrializing the assembly, integration, and testing processes for the future production of the BB satellites. We are making the necessary capital investments in the assembly, integration and testing ("AIT") facility in Texas. We are hiring, and expect to continue hiring, assembly, integration, and testing employees necessary for the production of the BB satellites and engineers that will be required to test and integrate the BB satellites. Also, we are continuing to implement and integrate various systems, such as product lifecycle management, manufacturing execution system, enterprise resource planning system, and other systems required to industrialize the manufacturing processes of the BB satellites. We are also actively engaged with the third-party vendors to secure supply of components and materials for production of the BB satellites. Furthermore, we are continuing to expand our research and development ("R&D") efforts for the development of electronics required for BB satellites and cellular and ground infrastructure and gateways. We are an early stage and emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with early stage and emerging growth companies. Please refer to Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Recent Developments On May 2, 2022, we received an experimental license from the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") supporting our U.S.-based testing of the BW3 satellite. The license covers BW3 space-to-ground testing in the United States using 3GPP low-band cellular frequencies and Q/V-band frequencies, subject to certain restrictions. We require additional authorizations from the FCC for our planned constellation of BB satellites. On May 6, 2022, we entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement and a Registration Rights Agreement (collectively referred to as the Purchase Agreement) with B. Riley Principal Capital, LLC (B. Riley) to sell to B. Riley up to $75.0 million of shares of the Companys Class A common stock over a period of 24 months subject to certain limitations and conditions contained in the Purchase Agreement. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources below for further information. Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic We continue to closely monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting impact on all aspects of our business across geographies, including how it has and may continue to impact our workforce, suppliers and vendors. We have implemented business continuity plans designed to address and mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, research and development efforts and the value of our equity, will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence at this time. To date, the pandemic has not had a material impact to our technology development efforts or results of our operations. However, given the evolution of the COVID-19 outbreak and 24 the global responses to curb its spread, we are not able to estimate the future effects of the COVID-19 outbreak on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. Factors Affecting Comparability of Our Future Results of Operations to Our Historical Results of Operations The consolidated assets, liabilities and results of operations for the period from January 1, 2021 up to April 6, 2021, the date the Company completed a business combination (the "Business Combination"), are those of our accounting predecessor, AST LLC. After the Business Combination, upon obtaining additional funding of $416.9 million, we significantly expanded research and development initiatives, made significant progress on the BW3 test satellite and d esign of the BB satellites, increased the headcount of employees and consultants, and expanded our operations . All of these factors contributed to a significant increase in related operating and capital expenditures during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Also, in connection with the Business Combination, we issued warrants which are recorded at fair value in our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet. The change in fair value of warrants was recognized as a gain or loss in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. Components of Results of Operations Revenues To date, we have not generated any revenues from our SpaceMobile Service. Our 51% owned subsidiary, Nano, generates revenue from the development and manufacture of satellite technology, and ancillary sales and services globally. Nano also sells individual satellite parts, subsystems, and software to be configured to customers satellites, and enters into rideshare type agreements whereby Nano provides hosted payload services using customers payloads integrated with Nano-owned satellite buses for scheduled launches. Accordingly, all revenue recognition presented herein exclusively relates to Nanos sales of goods and services. Cost of Sales Cost of sales includes the purchase price of various products used and services performed to execute Nanos sales contracts. Cost of sales also includes operational costs to fulfil Nano customer orders, including costs for Nano employees and overheads. Engineering Services Engineering costs are charged to expense as incurred. Engineering costs consist primarily of the expenses associated with our ongoing engineering efforts related to integration, testing, and development of our satellites, as well as the cost of internal staff (such as engineers and consultants) to support these efforts and general expenses related to engineering centers. General and Administrative Costs General and administrative costs include the costs of insurance, cost of non-engineering personnel and personnel related expenses such as recruiting and travel and lodging expenses, software licensing and subscriptions, office and facilities expenses, investor relations, and professional services, including public relations, accounting and legal fees. Research and Development Costs R&D costs consist principally of non-recurring development activities in which we typically engage third-party vendors. Currently, major R&D activities include engaging with vendors to help design and develop the electronic componentry, software, and mechanical deployment systems to be used in the BB satellites and in connection with the planned SpaceMobile service. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense includes amounts related to property and equipment as well as definite lived intangible assets. Once the BW3 test satellite is completed and successfully launched, we expect a significant portion of our depreciation expense to relate to the depreciation of this asset, given its assigned useful life is two years. Gain (Loss ) on Remeasurement of Warrant Liabilities Public and private warrants issued by us are accounted for as liability-classified instruments at their initial fair value on the date of issuance. They are remeasured on each balance sheet date and changes in the estimated fair value are recognized as an unrealized gain or loss in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. 25 Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists of interest earned on cash and cash equivalents held by us in interest bearing demand deposit accounts, net of any interest expense, as well as miscellaneous non-operating items, including foreign exchange gains or losses. Income Tax Expense AST LLC is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. Also, we have a controlling ownership interest in Nano, a Lithuanian subsidiary, that is subject to foreign income taxes and is also treated as a partnership for U.S. federal and state and local taxes. Accordingly, for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes, all income, losses, and other tax attributes pass through to the members income tax returns, and no U.S. federal and state and local provision for income taxes has been recorded for these entities in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Certain foreign wholly-owned entities are taxed as corporations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, and accruals for such taxes are included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Noncontrolling Interest Noncontrolling interest primarily represents the equity interest in AST LLC held by the Existing Equityholders other than us. As of March 31, 2022, the Existing Equityholders equity ownership percentage in AST LLC was approximately 72%. Also, noncontrolling interest includes the equity interests in our subsidiaries, Nano Lithuania and Nano US, held by equityholders other than us. As of March 31, 2022, the noncontrolling interests in Nano Lithuania and Nano US was approximately 49%. We attribute a portion of net income or loss generated at AST LLC, Nano Lithuania, and Nano US to the noncontrolling interests based on their ownership interests. Results of Operations The following table sets forth a summary of our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands) and the discussion that follows compares the three months ended March 31, 2022 to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Three months ended March 31, (unaudited) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Revenues $ 2,394 $ 951 $ 1,443 152 % Cost of sales (exclusive of items shown separately below) 1,986 896 1,090 122 Gross profit 408 55 353 642 Operating expenses: Engineering services 11,740 5,659 6,081 107 General and administrative costs 11,619 5,537 6,082 110 Research and development costs 8,281 304 7,977 2,624 Depreciation and amortization 1,100 614 486 79 Total operating expenses 32,740 12,114 20,626 170 Other income (expense): Loss on remeasurement of warrant liabilities (5,482 ) - (5,482 ) 100 Other income (expense), net 15 (28 ) 43 (154 ) Total other expense, net (5,467 ) (28 ) (5,439 ) 19,425 Loss before income tax expense (37,799 ) (12,087 ) (25,712 ) 213 Income tax expense 104 1 103 10,300 Net loss before allocation to noncontrolling interest (37,903 ) (12,088 ) (25,815 ) 214 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (27,182 ) (508 ) (26,674 ) 5,251 Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (10,721 ) $ (11,580 ) $ 859 (7 ) % 26 Revenues Total revenues increased by $1.4 million, or 152%, to $2.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in revenue was primarily attributable to the completion of performance obligations associated with existing Nano customer contracts. Cost of Sales Total cost of sales increased by $1.1 million, or 122%, to $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in cost of sales was primarily attributable to increased production and services under existing Nano sales contracts during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Engineering Services Total engineering services increased by $6.1 million, or 107%, to $11.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to a $5.3 million increase in payroll and employee related costs as a result of an increase in headcount period over period. The remaining change relates to a $0.8 million increase in general expenses at engineering centers to support the engineering efforts related to the integration, testing, and development of our satellites. Engineering expenses are expected to continue to increase in the near term as we hire additional engineers and third parties in our development of the SpaceMobile Service. General and Administrative Costs Total general and administrative costs increased by $6.1 million, or 110%, to $11.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to increased insurance costs, employee and consultant related expenses, and office related costs. The $1.4 million increase in insurance costs was attributable to increased insurance needs, including related to D&O insurance, intellectual property insurance and insurance coverage for our expanded facilities. The $1.2 million increase in consultant and employee related expenses was attributable to an increase in headcount period over period. The $1.3 million increase in professional service fees was attributable to the increase in legal, tax, and accounting services provided since becoming a public company. The $1.0 million increase in office-related costs was primarily attributable to increased costs for repairs and maintenance at our existing facility in Texas, headcount-driven increases in office supplies, software costs, and increased rent. The remaining $1.2 million increase in general and administrative costs was attributable to miscellaneous expenses, including licensing costs and travel costs. Research and Development Costs Total R&D costs increased by $8.0 million to $8.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to third-party development efforts relating to the BB satellites to be used in the SpaceMobile constellation, which began to increase substantially during the second quarter of 2021. Prior to the second quarter of 2021, our operations primarily related to constructing the BW3 test satellite, and therefore R&D efforts were limited during the three months ended March 31, 2021. Total R&D costs are expected to continue to increase in future periods until the BB satellite design and development is completed, however, they may fluctuate quarter over quarter as R&D costs are driven by milestones. Depreciation and Amortization Total depreciation and amortization expense increased by $0.5 million, or 79%, to $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to the purchase of additional fixed assets and leasehold improvements during the period. Depreciation expense is expected to increase significantly once the BW3 test satellite is completed and successfully launched given its assigned useful life of two years. Changes in Fair Value of Warrant Liabilities Increase in fair value of warrant liabilities resulted in a loss of $5.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. We did not have a similar change in the fair value of the warrant liabilities during the three months ended March 31, 2021 as the warrant liabilities were not recorded until the Business Combination was completed in the second quarter of 2021. 27 Income Tax Expense The provision for income taxes was $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and near zero for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The consolidated effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021 was (0.28)% and 0%, respectively. The difference in the effective rates between periods is driven by income tax expense assessed against non-U.S earnings. For further information, see Note 15: Income Taxes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this report. Net Loss attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest was $27.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to $0.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2021. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest for the three months ended March 31, 2022 mainly related to the noncontrolling interest in AST LLC. There was no noncontrolling interest in AST LLC during the three months ended March 31, 2021 and the net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest during this period related to the noncontrolling interest in Nano only. Liquidity and Capital Resources We require capital to fund our operating expenses and to make capital expenditures . We expect our capital requirements to increase as we execute our plan to develop the SpaceMobile Service with global coverage. As of March 31, 2022, we had $255.1 million of cas h, cash equivalents, and restricted cash on hand. We believe our cash on hand is sufficient to meet our current working capital needs, planned operating expenses and capital expenditure for a period of at least 12 months from the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The design, manufacture, integration, testing, assembly and launch of satellites and related components and related ground infrastructure is a capital-intensive venture. We currently estimate the capital expenditures required for the manufacture and launch of the first 20 BB satellites to be between approximately $260.0 million and $300.0 million, which is expected to be incurred during the remainder of 2022 and 2023. Assuming we are able to execute on our current planned timeframe, we estimate our capital expenditures required for the manufacture and launch of the planned constellation, including the 168 satellites we currently anticipate are required to reach substantial global mobile coverage with MIMO capabilities, to be approximately $1.9 billion which is expected to be incurred through 2025. We will continue to seek to raise additional capital prior to the commercial launch of the SpaceMobile Service. Also, we will need to raise significant additional capital to build out the SpaceMobile Service to provide global coverage. We expect to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity related or debt securities, or through obtaining credit from government or financial institutions or commercial partners. This capital will be necessary to fund ongoing operations, continue research, development and design efforts, improve infrastructure, and launch satellites. The capital asset investments required to complete the SpaceMobile constellation and related operating costs are preliminary estimates. As we complete the design, development, componentry and progress with procurement, assembly, integration and testing of the BB satellites, our estimates may be subject to change and actual costs may be materially greater than our current estimates. We may also face delays and other challenges which will have the impact of increasing the cost of the SpaceMobile constellation. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms if required, or at all. If we cannot raise additional funds when needed, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects will be materially adversely affected. We have contractual obligations, including non-cancellable operating leases for office space, with terms expiring through February 2028. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, there were no material changes from the future minimum annual rental payments required under the operating lease agr eements described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 20 21. As of March 31, 2022, we had contractual commitments with third parties in the aggregate amount of $35.2 million related to R&D programs, capital improvements, and procurement of BB satellite components. We expect these commitments will continue to increase as we complete the supply chain and electronics development in preparation for the production and launch of the BB satellites. Common Stock Purchase Agreement On May 6, 2022, the Company entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement and a Registration Rights Agreement (collectively referred to as the Purchase Agreement) with B. Riley Principal Capital, LLC (B. Riley). Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the Company has the right, in its sole discretion, to sell to B. Riley up to $75.0 million of shares of the Companys Class A common stock at 97% of the volume weighted average price ("VWAP") of the Class A common stock calculated in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, over a period of 24 months subject to certain limitations and conditions contained in the Purchase Agreement. Sales and timing of any sales of Class A common stock are solely at the election of the Company, and the Company is under no obligation to sell 28 any securities to B. Riley under the Purchase Agreement. As consideration for B. Rileys commitment to purchase shares of the Companys Class A common stock, the Company has issued 21,969 shares of its Class A common stock as initial commitment shares and will issue an aggregate of 65,907 shares of its Class A common stock as additional commitment shares if certain conditions are met. Texas Financing Agreement In December 2021, concurrent with the purchase of real property and equipment in Midland, Texas, our wholly owned subsidiary, AST & Science Texas, LLC (the "Subsidiary"), entered into a new Credit Agreement providing for a $5.0 million term loan secured by the property. Borrowings under the term loan bear interest at a fixed rate equal to 4.20% per annum until December 7, 2026, and from December 8, 2026 until December 8, 2028 at a fixed rate per annum equal to 4.20% subject to adjustment if the index rate as defined in the Credit Agreement is greater than 4.20%. See the notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements (Note 8) contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. In connection with the term loan, we have deposited into a reserve account $2.8 million of restricted cash that may be used only for the purposes of funding capital improvements related to the AIT facility located in Midland, Texas. Under any event of default, the lender will have the right to offset against this account any past due payments, indebtedness or charges owed by us. As of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, $1.4 million and $2.8 million, respectively, was included within restricted cash in our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets, for the remaining expected capital improvement costs related to the AIT facility located in Midland, Texas. The Credit Agreement contains certain customary events of default, and certain covenants that limit our Subsidiary's ability to, among other things, create liens on collateral, consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of their assets; and enter into certain transactions with their affiliates. If our Subsidiary fails to perform its obligations under these and other covenants, or should any event of default occur, the term loan may be terminated and any outstanding borrowings, together with unpaid accrued interest, could be declared immediately due and payable, and the lender will be authorized to take possession of the collateral. Cash Flows Historical Cash Flows The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands) (unaudited): Three months ended March 31, (unaudited) 2022 2021 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 255,110 $ 22,213 Cash used in operating activities $ (47,508 ) $ (8,527 ) Cash used in investing activities (21,567 ) (11,423 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 130 (595 ) Operating activities Cash used in operating activities was $47.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, including $14.8 million of deposits paid to SpaceX related to the first BB initial payment and a launch reservation fee for a future BB launch, as compared to cash used in operating activities of $8.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The $24.2 million increase in cash used in operating activities, excluding the above mentioned deposits paid to SpaceX, was attributable to increased operating expenditures related to increased headcount as our operations expanded, increased research and development efforts, and an increase in professional fees related to being a public company. Investing activities Cash used in investing activities was $21.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to cash used in investing activities of $11.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The $10.2 million increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to $8.0 million related to BW3 launch cost, $0.2 million increase in BW3 satellite construction costs and a $2.0 million increase in purchases of property and equipment including satellite antennas, test equipment, and leasehold improvements. 29 Financing activities Cash provided by financing activities was $0.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to cash used for financing activities of $0.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021. Cash used for financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was related to direct costs incurred related to the Business Combination. Impact of inflation While inflation may impact our capital and operating expenditures, we believe the effects of inflation, if any, on our results of operations and financial condition have not been significant. However, there can be no assurance that our results of operations and financial condition will not be materially impacted by inflation in the future, including by heightened levels of inflation experienced globally as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic and recent geopolitical conflict. Funding Requirements We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements for at least 12 months from the date hereof. However, our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary materially. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could expend capital resources sooner than we expect. Future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: Establishing and maintaining supply and manufacturing relationships with third parties that can provide adequate, in both amount and quality, products and services to support our satellite development; Technological or manufacturing difficulties, design issues or other unforeseen matters; Negotiation of launch agreements (including launch costs), launch delays or failures or deployment failures or in-orbit satellite failures; Addressing any competing technological and market developments; Seeking and obtaining market access approvals; and Attracting, hiring, and retaining qualified personnel. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial revenues to support our cost structure, we expect to finance cash needs through a combination of equity offerings, debt financings, commercial and other similar arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of stockholders will be, or could be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise funds through commercial agreements, or other similar arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies and/or future revenue streams, or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us and/or may reduce the value of our common stock. Also, our ability to raise necessary financing could be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, recent geopolitical events, and inflationary economic conditions and their effects on the market conditions. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market other services even if we would otherwise prefer to develop and market these services ourselves or potentially discontinue operations. Critical Accounting Policies Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). Preparation of the financial statements requires our management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that impact the reported amount of revenue and expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We consider an accounting judgment, estimate or assumption to be critical when (1) the estimate or assumption is complex in nature or requires a high degree of judgment and (2) the use of different judgments, estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statement s. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 of the Companys unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report as well as in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. O ur critical accounting policies are described below. 30 BlueWalker3 Capitalization We account for research and development costs related to the BW3 test satellite in accordance with ASC 730 Research and Development (ASC 730). We have determined there is an alternative future use for BW3 as defined in this guidance. As such, certain costs related to the construction of the BW3 test satellite are capitalized and reported as construction-in-progress (CIP) on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. We capitalize only those expenditures and ancillary costs that are directly attributable to the construction phase and necessarily incurred to place BW3 into its intended location and use. To date, capitalized expenditures include the costs for satellite parts, paid launch costs, and other non-recurring costs directly associated with BW3 developments. The other non-recurring costs primarily include third-party engineers who are hired solely for the design and assembly of BW3 and are responsible for the value and progression of the project. The costs for internal, recurrent engineers and consultants are expensed as engineering services and not capitalized to the CIP account on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets, as these employees are not directly associated with the development of BW3. Costs incurred that are not directly attributable to the construction phase or necessarily incurred to place BW3 into its intended location and use are recognized as an expense as incurred. Warrant Liabilities We account for warrants as either equity-classified or liability-classified instruments based on an assessment of the warrants specific terms and applicable authoritative guidance in ASC 480 - Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480) and ASC 815 - Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). Our assessment considers whether the warrants are freestanding financial instruments pursuant to ASC 480, whether they meet the definition of a liability pursuant to ASC 480, and whether the warrants meet all of the requirements for equity classification under ASC 815, including whether the warrants are indexed to our own common stock and whether the warrant holders could potentially require net cash settlement in a circumstance outside of our control, among other conditions for equity classification. This assessment, which requires the use of professional judgment, is conducted at the time of warrant issuance and as of each subsequent quarterly period-end date while the warrants are outstanding. For issued or modified warrants that meet all of the criteria for equity classification, they are recorded as a component of additional paid-in capital at the time of issuance. For issued or modified warrants that do not meet all the criteria for equity classification, they are recorded at their initial fair value on the date of issuance and subject to remeasurement each balance sheet date with changes in the estimated fair value of the warrants to be recognized as a non-cash gain or loss in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets We assess goodwill for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter, on a reporting unit basis, or more frequently, when events and circumstances occur indicating that the recorded goodwill may be impaired. We first perform a qualitative assessment of goodwill, a Step 0 analysis, to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The qualitative impairment analysis consists of evaluating macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance, relevant entity-specific events, events affecting a specific reporting unit, and sustained decrease in the share price. If we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value we perform a quantitative impairment test. This test identifies both the existence of and the amount of goodwill impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value an impairment loss is recognized in amount equal to that excess, limited to the amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. When performing a quantitative impairment test we make various estimates and assumptions in determining the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, including estimated cash flows and a terminal value, discounted at a rate of return that reflects the relative risk of the cash flows, as well as valuation multiples derived from comparable publicly traded companies that are applied to operating performance of the reporting unit. It is possible that changes in circumstances or changes in managements judgments, assumptions and estimates could result in an impairment charge of a portion or all of its goodwill. We assess the impairment of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important in the determination of an impairment include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner that we use the acquired asset and significant negative industry or economic trends. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2022. 31