Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to New Providence Acquisition Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to New Providence Management LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on May 28, 2019 for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or other similar Business Combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. The issuance of additional shares of our stock in a Business Combination: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in our Initial Public Offering; may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; could cause a change of control if a substantial number of shares of our common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Units, Class A common stock and/or warrants. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial Business Combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, our ability to pay expenses, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, and fund other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; 14 increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, and execution of our strategy; and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. As indicated in the accompanying financial statements, at September 30, 2020, we had $357,013 in cash and working capital of $259,351, which excludes franchise and income taxes payable as the net amounts can be paid from the interest earned in the Trust Account. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete our initial Business Combination will be successful. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities September 30, 2020 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and, after our Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended September 30 2020, we had a net loss of $55,049, which consisted of operating costs of $152,823 and an unrealized loss on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $4,918, offset by interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $88,058 and an income tax benefit of $14,634. For the nine months ended September 30 2020, we had net income of $740,226, which consisted of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $1,425,833 and an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $3,172, offset by operating costs of $492,011 and a provision for income taxes of $196,768. For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and for the period from May 28, 2019 (inception) through September 30, 2019, we had net income of $87,761 and $86,668, respectively, which consists of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $165,606 and an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $39,814, offset by formation and operating costs and formation of $94,621 and $95,714, respectively, and a provision for income taxes of $23,038. Liquidity and Capital Resources On September 13, 2019, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 20,000,000 Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $200,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 5,500,000 Private Placement Warrants to the Sponsor at a price of $1.00 per warrant, generating gross proceeds of $5,500,000. On September 19, 2019, in connection with the underwriters full exercise of their over-allotment option, we consummated the sale of an additional 3,000,000 Units and the sale of an additional 600,000 Private Placement Warrants, generating total gross proceeds of $30,600,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $230,000,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $13,260,927 in transaction costs, including $4,600,000 of underwriting fees, $8,050,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $610,927 of other costs. As of September 30, 2020, we had marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $232,143,216 (including approximately $2,143,000 of interest income and unrealized gains) consisting of U.S. Treasury Bills with a maturity of 180 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. During the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we withdraw $500,620 of interest earned on the Trust Account to pay our franchise and income taxes. 15 For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $636,735. Net income of $740,226 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $1,425,833, an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $3,172, a deferred tax benefit of $2,945 and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which provided $54,989 of cash. For the period from May 28, 2019 (inception) through September 30, 2019, cash used in operating activities was $208,689. Net income of $86,668 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $165,606, an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $39,814, deferred income taxes of $8,361 and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which used $98,298 of cash. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less deferred underwriting commissions and income taxes payable), to complete our Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. As of September 30, 2020, we had cash of $232,143,216 held outside the Trust Account. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the initial stockholders or their affiliates may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants identical to the Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. As of September 30, 2020, we had cash of $357,013 held outside of the Trust Account and working capital of $259,351. Until the consummation of a Business Combination, we will be using the funds not held in the Trust Account for primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. Our Sponsor, officers, directors or their affiliates are not under any obligation to advance us funds, or to invest in us. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain additional financing. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, curtailing operations, suspending the pursuit of a potential transaction, and reducing overhead expenses. We cannot provide any assurance that new financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2020. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, administrative and support services to the Company. We began incurring these fees on September 11, 2019 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and the Companys liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per unit, or $8,050,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. 16 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our condensed balance sheets. Net Loss Per Share of Common Stock We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Common stock subject to possible redemption which is not currently redeemable and is not redeemable at fair value, has been excluded from the calculation of basic net loss per common share since such shares, if redeemed, only participate in their pro rata share of the Trust Account earnings. Our net income is adjusted for the portion of income that is attributable to common stock subject to possible redemption, as these shares only participate in the earnings of the Trust Account and not our income or losses. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements.