Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We and our global partners are building what we believe is the first space-based cellular broadband network designed to be accessible by standard unmodified mobile phones. Our SpaceMobile Service is being designed to provide cost-effective, high-speed mobile broadband services with global coverage to all end-users, regardless of where they live or work, without the need to purchase special equipment. We believe the SpaceMobile Service would be the first global direct mobile broadband network using LEO satellites to provide connectivity to any standard, unmodified, off-the-shelf mobile phone or 2G/3G/4G LTE/5G and IoT-enabled device. We intend to work with Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) to offer the SpaceMobile Service to the MNOs end-user customers. Our vision is that users will not need to subscribe to the SpaceMobile Service directly with us, nor will they need to purchase any new or additional equipment. Instead, users will be able to access the SpaceMobile Service when prompted on their mobile device that they are no longer within range of the land-based facilities of the MNO operator or will be able to purchase a plan directly with their existing mobile provider. The SpaceMobile Service currently is planned to be provided through a network of 168 high-powered, large phased-array satellites in LEO. The worldwide mobile traffic will be directed by the SpaceMobile constellation to terrestrial gateways via high throughput Q/V-band links and then directed to the in-country MNOs core cellular network infrastructure, located at our dedicated gateways. Our intent is that users will be able to connect to the SpaceMobile Service as if they were using a local cell tower, with less communication delay effects than existing geostationary satellite communication systems experience. On April 1, 2019, we launched our first test satellite, BlueWalker 1 (BW1), which was used to validate our satellite to cellular architecture and was capable of managing communications delays from LEO and the effects of doppler in a satellite to ground cellular environment using the 4G-LTE protocols. We launched our BlueWalker 3 (BW3) test satellite on September 10, 2022. The BW3 test satellite has an aperture of 693 square feet and is designed to communicate directly with cellular devices via 3GPP standard frequencies. On November 14, 2022, the Company announced the completion of the deployment of the communication array of the BW3 test satellite in orbit to conduct a series of tests to directly communicate with standard/unmodified cellular devices in conjunction with various MNOs across the world. The goal of these tests is to work with third parties to demonstrate the BW3 test satellites ability to operate a communications circuit with standard/unmodified cellular devices at speeds typically used in 5G settings. The planned testing of the BW3 test satellite is subject to a number of factors, including but not limited to, loss of satellite connectivity, destruction of the satellite, or other communication failures. As of September 30, 2022, we had incurred approximately $92.1 million of capitalized costs (including launch cost and 27 non-recurring engineering costs) related to the assembly, testing and deployment of the BW3 test satellite. We expect to incur certain post-deployment costs related to the BW3 test satellite, including software integration testing. We are also currently developing and designing our constellation of BlueBird (BB) satellites. We plan to leverage skills, know-how and technological expertise derived from the design and assembly of our BW3 test satellite in the development of our BB satellite platform. We are currently planning the first generation of commercial BB satellites (Block 1 BB Satellites) utilizing the BB satellite platform. We expect the Block 1 BB Satellites will be of similar size and weight to the BW3 test satellite and have design improvements for enhanced power efficiency and throughput designed to increase capacity. We currently expect to launch five Block 1 BB Satellites in late 2023. Following the launch and deployment of five Block 1 BB Satellites, we currently plan to initiate a limited, noncontinuous SpaceMobile Service in certain countries and seek to generate revenue from such service. Prior to initiating such service, we will need to obtain regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where we would provide such service and would need to enter into definitive agreements with the MNOs relating to the offering of such service in each jurisdiction. We believe the deployment of Block 1 BB Satellites and subsequent initiation of limited service may provide numerous benefits including a potential first mover advantage and helping to demonstrate the advantages of a satellite to cellular broadband service in the marketplace. We believe that these new services could include emergency services for locations that have lost cellular and other telecommunications infrastructure, emergency services for individual cellular subscribers and Internet of Things services. This market activity may commence while we continue the development and testing of the next generation of the BB satellites. Our future generations of BB satellites are expected to derive greater throughput by taking advantage of growing improvements in the processing power of our radio frequency systems and the power output of our solar arrays as well as the capacity advantages of deploying larger sized antennas. We currently plan to achieve substantial global coverage following the launch of approximately 110 BB satellites. Following the completion of substantial global coverage, we expect to introduce MIMO capabilities as we complete our constellation of 168 satellites. The timeline for the development and commercialization of our BB satellites has been, and continues to be, subject to numerous uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including, satisfactory and timely completion of satellite components and assembly and testing of the satellites, availability of launch windows by the launch providers, proposed orbits and resulting satellite coverage, launch costs, ability to enter into agreements with MNOs, regulatory approvals, and other factors. Accordingly, we may adopt a deployment and commercialization strategy that may differ materially from our previous and/or current plans. The SpaceMobile Service has not been launched and therefore has not yet generated revenue. After we begin to launch and deploy our Block 1 BB Satellites, we currently plan to initiate a limited, noncontinuous SpaceMobile Service in certain countries and seek to generate revenue from such service. We plan to deploy our BB satellites in a phased approach over time and expect to offer continuous coverage SpaceMobile Service in targeted geographical locations once we have deployed the necessary number of satellites for each area. We may adopt a strategy for commercial launch of the SpaceMobile Service, including the nature and type of services offered and the countries where we may launch such services, that may differ materially from our current plan. We operate from multiple locations that include our corporate headquarters and 185,000 square foot satellite assembly, integrating and testing facilities in Texas, and engineering and development locations in the United States, Israel, Spain, and the United Kingdom. We are currently industrializing the assembly, integration, and testing processes for the future production of the BB satellites. We are making the necessary capital investments in the assembly, integration and testing (AIT) facilities in Texas. We are hiring, and expect to continue hiring, assembly, integration, and testing employees necessary for the production of the BB satellites and engineers that will be required to test and integrate the BB satellites. Also, we are continuing to implement and integrate various systems, such as product lifecycle management, manufacturing execution system, enterprise resource planning system, and other systems required to industrialize the manufacturing processes of the BB satellites. We are also actively engaged with the third-party vendors to secure supply of components and materials for our BB satellites. Furthermore, we are continuing to expand our research and development (R&D) efforts for the development of electronics required for BB satellites and cellular and ground infrastructure and gateways. In March 2022, we entered into a Multi-Launch Agreement with Space Exploration Technologies Corp. (SpaceX) which provides a framework for future launches of our satellites through December 31, 2024, and a framework for additional launch service agreements relating to the launch of future BB satellites. The exact timing of the satellite launches is contingent on a number of factors, including satisfactory and timely completion of assembly and testing of the BB satellites. The Multi-Launch Agreement permits us to delay launches of our satellites upon payment of certain rebooking fees. We have received an experimental license from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) supporting our U.S.-based testing of the BW3 test satellite. The license covers BW3 test satellite space-to-ground testing in the United States using 3GPP low-band cellular frequencies and Q/V-band frequencies, subject to certain restrictions. We require additional authorizations, including operating licenses from the FCC and other regulators for our planned constellation of BB satellites. 28 We are an early stage and emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with early stage and emerging growth companies. Please refer to Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Recent Developments On September 6, 2022, AST & Science, LLC (AST LLC) completed the sale of its 51% interest in its former subsidiary, NanoAvionika UAB (Nano) headquartered in Lithuania (the Share Sale) for net proceeds of approximately $26.7 million and recognized a net gain of $24.6 million in other income (expense) in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. The final consideration amount is subject to customary working capital and net debt adjustments. Upon closing of the Nano Share Sale, all amounts outstanding under the Nano Financing Agreement were paid and the Nano Financing Agreement was terminated. As Nano represented substantially all our revenue and cost of sales to date, we do not expect to recognize any revenue or any cost of sales until we begin to launch our SpaceMobile Service. On September 8, 2022, we entered into an Equity Distribution Agreement (the Sales Agreement) with Evercore Group L.L.C. and B. Riley Securities, Inc. (collectively, the agents) to sell shares of our Class A common stock having an aggregate sales price of up to $150.0 million (the Shares) through an at the market offering program under which the agents act as sales agents. The sales of the Shares made under the Sales Agreement may be made by any method permitted by law deemed to be an at the market offering as defined in Rule 415 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Under the Sales Agreement, the agents are entitled to total compensation at a commission rate of up to 3.0% of the gross sales price per share sold. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources below for further information. Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic and Global Macroeconomic Conditions We continue to closely monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and macroeconomic conditions, including heightened inflation, slower growth or recession, changes to fiscal and monetary policies, higher interest rates, volatility in the capital markets, and supply chain challenges, on all aspects of our business across geographies, including how it has and may continue to impact our operations, workforce, suppliers, and our ability to raise additional funds to fund operating and capital expenditures. Changes in the prices of satellite materials due to inflation, supply chain challenges, and other macroeconomic factors may affect our capital costs estimates to build and launch the satellite constellation and adversely affect our financial condition. The extent of impact of these factors on our business will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence at this time. To date, these factors have not had a material impact on our technology development efforts or results of our operations. However, if macroeconomic conditions deteriorate or there are unforeseen developments with respect to the current COVID-19 pandemic, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Factors Affecting Comparability of Our Future Results of Operations to Our Historical Results of Operations The consolidated assets, liabilities and results of operations for the period from January 1, 2021 up to April 6, 2021, the date the Company completed a business combination (the Business Combination), are those of our accounting predecessor, AST LLC. After the Business Combination, upon obtaining additional funding of $416.9 million, we significantly expanded research and development initiatives, made significant progress on the BW3 test satellite and design of the BB satellites, increased the headcount of employees and consultants, and expanded our operations through December 31, 2021. During the nine months ended September 30, 2022, we continued to make significant progress to complete the assembly and launch of our BW3 test satellite, advanced research and development initiatives for the design and development of Block 1 and Block 2 BB Satellites, particularly around long-lead components, and made significant progress in Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) development, industrialized our AIT facilities for production of BB satellites, and increased the headcount of employees and consultants to support our growing operations. Our future results of operations will be driven by our ability to execute on our strategy and could differ materially from the historical results of operations. We intend to continue to make necessary capital investments to industrialize our AIT facilities, procure satellite materials and components, set up ground infrastructure, establish network and software operations centers, continue the research and development initiatives, and increase the headcount of our employees and consultants to support the production and launch of the BB satellites and expand our operations. All of these factors could result in materially different capital and operating expenses during the future periods. We do not expect to generate revenue in future periods until we launch the SpaceMobile Service. Components of Results of Operations Revenues 29 To date, we have not generated any revenues from our SpaceMobile Service. Our former subsidiary, Nano, generated revenue from the development and manufacture of satellite technology, and ancillary sales and services globally. Nano also sold individual satellite parts, subsystems, and software to be configured to customers satellites, and entered into rideshare type agreements whereby Nano provided hosted payload services using customers payloads integrated with Nano-owned satellite buses for scheduled launches. Accordingly, all revenue presented herein exclusively relates to Nanos sales of goods and services. Following the completion of the sale of Nano on September 6, 2022, we do not expect to generate revenue in future periods until we launch the SpaceMobile Service. Cost of Sales Cost of sales includes the purchase price of various products used and services performed to execute Nanos sales contracts. Cost of sales also includes operational costs to fulfil Nano customer orders, including costs for Nano employees and overhead. Following the completion of the sale of Nano on September 6, 2022, we do not expect to generate revenue and incur associated cost of sales in future periods until we launch the SpaceMobile Service. Engineering Services Costs Engineering services costs are charged to expense as incurred. Engineering services costs consist primarily of the expenses associated with our ongoing engineering efforts related to integration, testing, and development of our satellites, as well as the cost of internal staff (such as engineers and consultants) to support these efforts and general expenses related to engineering centers. General and Administrative Costs General and administrative costs include the costs of insurance, cost of non-engineering personnel and personnel related expenses such as recruiting and travel and lodging expenses, software licensing and subscriptions, office and facilities expenses, investor relations, and professional services, including public relations, accounting and legal fees. Research and Development Costs R&D costs consist principally of non-recurring development activities in which we typically engage third-party vendors. Currently, major R&D activities include engaging with vendors to help design and develop the electronic componentry, software, and mechanical deployment systems to be used in the BB satellites and in connection with the planned SpaceMobile Service. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense includes amounts related to property and equipment as well as definite lived intangible assets. Once the necessary testing to connect the BW3 test satellite to a cellphone is complete, we expect to depreciate the BW3 test satellite over its expected useful life of two years resulting in a significant increase in future depreciation expense. Gain (Loss) on Remeasurement of Warrant Liabilities Public and private warrants issued by us are accounted for as liability-classified instruments at their initial fair value on the date of issuance. They are remeasured on each balance sheet date and changes in the estimated fair value are recognized as an unrealized gain or loss in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists of the gain from sale of Nano, interest earned on cash and cash equivalents held by us in interest bearing demand deposit accounts, net of any interest expense, as well as transaction costs incurred in connection with the Common Stock Purchase Agreement and other miscellaneous non-operating items, including foreign exchange gains or losses. Income Tax Expense AST LLC is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. Also, we had a controlling ownership interest in our former subsidiary, Nano, a Lithuanian company, through September 6, 2022, that is subject to foreign income taxes and is also treated as a partnership for U.S. federal and state and local taxes. Accordingly, for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes, all income, losses, and other tax attributes pass through to the members income tax returns, and no U.S. federal and state and local provision for income taxes has been recorded for these entities in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Certain foreign wholly-owned entities are taxed as corporations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, and accruals for such taxes are included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 30 Noncontrolling Interest Noncontrolling interest primarily represents the equity interest in AST LLC held by the Existing Equityholders other than us. As of September 30, 2022, the Existing Equityholders equity ownership percentage in AST LLC was approximately 70.6%. Also, noncontrolling interest includes approximately 49% equity interests in our former subsidiary, Nano, held by equityholders other than us up to September 6, 2022. On September 6, 2022, the noncontrolling interest was eliminated in connection with the sale of the Companys 51% interest in Nano. We attribute a portion of net income or loss generated at AST LLC and Nano to the noncontrolling interests based on their ownership interests. Results of Operations Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 Compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2021 The following table sets forth a summary of our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands) and the discussion that follows compares the three months ended September 30, 2022 to the three months ended September 30, 2021. For the Three Months Ended September 30, (unaudited) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Revenues $ 4,168 $ 2,450 $ 1,718 70 % Cost of sales (exclusive of items shown separately below) 2,525 2,103 422 20 Gross profit 1,643 347 1,296 373 Operating expenses: Engineering services 14,492 8,026 6,466 81 General and administrative costs 12,916 9,331 3,585 38 Research and development costs 13,543 4,888 8,655 177 Depreciation and amortization 1,172 867 305 35 Total operating expenses 42,123 23,112 19,011 82 Other income (expense): (Loss) gain on remeasurement of warrant liabilities (15,897 ) 39,401 (55,298 ) 140 Other income, net 24,875 184 24,691 (13,419 ) Total other income, net 8,978 39,585 (30,607 ) (77 ) (Loss) income before income tax expense (31,502 ) 16,820 (48,322 ) (287 ) Income tax expense 550 16 534 3,338 Net (loss) income before allocation to noncontrolling interest (32,052 ) 16,804 (48,856 ) (291 ) Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling interest (22,286 ) 12,689 (34,975 ) (276 ) Net (loss) income attributable to common stockholders $ (9,766 ) $ 4,115 $ (13,881 ) (337 ) % Revenues Total revenues increased by $1.7 million, or 70%, to $4.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in revenue was primarily attributable to the completion of performance obligations associated with existing Nano customer contracts prior to the sale of our 51% interest in Nano on September 6, 2022. Cost of Sales Total cost of sales increased by $0.4 million, or 20%, to $2.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in cost of sales was primarily attributable to increased production and services under existing Nano customer contracts during the three months ended September 30, 2022 prior to the sale of our 51% interest in Nano on September 6, 2022. 31 Engineering Services Costs Total engineering services costs increased by $6.5 million, or 81%, to $14.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to a $5.4 million increase in payroll and employee related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, as a result of an increase in headcount period over period. The remaining increase relates to a $1.1 million increase in general expenses at engineering centers to support the engineering efforts related to the integration, testing, and development of our satellites. General and Administrative Costs Total general and administrative costs increased by $3.6 million, or 38%, to $12.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2021. This increase was primarily attributable to a $1.1 million increase in payroll and employee related costs as a result of an increase in headcount as well as an increase in stock-based compensation awards granted since the prior period. The remaining $2.5 million increase was primarily attributable to increases in travel expenses, facilities costs, software license costs, and legal expenses. Research and Development Costs Total R&D costs increased by $8.7 million, or 177%, to $13.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2021. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in design and development efforts of our BB satellites along with payments made upon achieving certain milestones of our ASIC development program. R&D costs are primarily attributable to third-party development efforts relating to the BB satellites to be used in the SpaceMobile constellation, which fluctuate quarter over quarter, as these costs are largely driven by the achievement of milestones that trigger payments. Depreciation and Amortization Total depreciation and amortization expense increased by $0.3 million, or 35%, to $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2021. The increase was primarily due to the purchase of additional fixed assets and leasehold improvements during the period. Depreciation expense is expected to increase significantly in future periods once we begin to depreciate the BW3 test satellite over its expected useful life of two years. (Loss) Gain on Remeasurement of Warrant Liabilities An increase in fair value of warrant liabilities resulted in a loss of $15.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the gain of $39.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021. Other Income Increase in other income during the three months ended September 30, 2022 is primarily due to the net gain of $24.6 million recognized in connection with the sale of Nano on September 6, 2022 and an increase in interest income from the cash and cash equivalents held at financial institutions partially offset by the transaction costs incurred in connection with the Common Stock Purchase Agreement. Income Tax Expense The provision for income taxes was $0.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and near zero for the three months ended September 30, 2021. The consolidated effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and September 30, 2021 was (1.75)% and 0.10%, respectively. The difference in the effective rates between periods is driven by income tax expense assessed against non-U.S earnings. For further information, refer to Note 17: Income Taxes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this report. Net (Loss) Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest was $(22.3) million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to a net income attributable to noncontrolling interest of $12.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2021. The decrease in net income attributable to noncontrolling interest for the three months ended September 30, 2022 correlates with the decrease in net income generated at AST LLC. 32 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 Compared to the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2021 The following table sets forth a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the interim periods indicated below and the changes between the periods. For the Nine Months Ended September 30, (unaudited) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Revenues $ 13,825 $ 6,185 $ 7,640 124 % Cost of sales (exclusive of items shown separately below) 6,714 4,122 2,592 63 Gross profit 7,111 2,063 5,048 245 Operating expenses: Engineering services 38,208 18,757 19,451 104 General and administrative costs 37,634 24,031 13,603 57 Research and development costs 30,969 15,491 15,478 100 Depreciation and amortization 3,457 2,049 1,408 69 Total operating expenses 110,268 60,328 49,940 83 Other income (expense): Gain (loss) on remeasurement of warrant liabilities 1,669 (2,276 ) 3,945 173 Other income, net 24,211 156 24,055 (15,420 ) Total other income (expense), net 25,880 (2,120 ) 28,000 (1,321 ) Loss before income tax expense (77,277 ) (60,385 ) (16,892 ) 28 Income tax expense 747 73 674 923 Net loss before allocation to noncontrolling interest (78,024 ) (60,458 ) (17,566 ) 29 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (54,613 ) (33,015 ) (21,598 ) 65 Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (23,411 ) $ (27,443 ) $ 4,032 (15 ) % Revenues Total revenues increased by $7.6 million, or 124%, to $13.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in revenue was primarily attributable to the completion of performance obligations associated with both new and existing Nano customer contracts during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 prior to the sale of our 51% interest in Nano on September 6, 2022. Cost of Sales Total cost of sales increased by $2.6 million, or 63%, to $6.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in cost of sales correlates with the increase in revenue and was primarily attributable to increased production and services under new and existing Nano sales contracts during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 prior to the sale of our 51% interest in Nano on September 6, 2022. Engineering Services Costs Total engineering services costs increased by $19.5 million, or 104%, to $38.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to a $17.1 million increase in payroll and employee related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, as a result of an increase in headcount to support growing engineering operations in 2022. The remaining $2.4 million increase relates to general expenses at engineering centers to support engineering efforts related to the integration, testing, and development of our satellites. 33 General and Administrative Costs Total general and administrative costs increased by $13.6 million, or 57%, to $37.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2021. This increase was primarily attributable to a $4.8 million increase in payroll and employee related costs as a result of an increase in headcount period over period, as well as an increase in stock-based compensation awards granted since the prior period. Also, there was a $4.4 million increase attributable to increased travel expenses, facilities related costs, rent and office supplies, a $1.7 million increase attributable to increased insurance expense and a $2.7 million increase attributable to increased professional services fees, software licensing costs, and other miscellaneous expenses. Research and Development Costs Total R&D costs increased by $15.5 million, or 100%, to $31.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2021. R&D costs are primarily attributable to third-party development efforts relating to the BB satellites to be used in the SpaceMobile constellation. Prior to the second quarter of 2021, our operations primarily related to constructing the BW3 test satellite, and therefore R&D efforts were limited. The increase in R&D costs was primarily due to increased design and development efforts for our BB satellites along with achievement of certain milestones of our ASIC development program. R&D costs are expected to fluctuate quarter over quarter, as R&D costs are largely driven by the achievement of milestones that trigger payments. Depreciation and Amortization Total depreciation and amortization expense increased by $1.4 million, or 69%, to $3.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The increase was primarily due to the purchase of additional fixed assets and leasehold improvements over the last twelve months ended September 30, 2022. Gain (Loss) on Remeasurement of Warrant Liabilities Decrease in fair value of warrant liabilities resulted in a gain of $1.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the loss of $2.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2021. Other Income Increase in other income is primarily due to the net gain of $24.6 million recognized in connection with the Nano Share Sale on September 6, 2022 and an increase in interest income from the cash and cash equivalents held at financial institutions, partially offset by the transaction costs incurred in connection with the Common Stock Purchase Agreement. Income Tax Expense The provision for income taxes was $0.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The consolidated effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and September 30, 2021 was (0.97%) and 0.10%, respectively. The difference in the effective rates between periods is driven by income tax expense assessed against non-U.S earnings. For further information, refer to Note 17: Income Taxes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this report. Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest was $(54.6) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to $(33.0) million in the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The increase in net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 correlates with the increase in net loss generated at AST LLC. Liquidity and Capital Resources We require capital to fund our operating expenses and to make capital expenditures. As of September 30, 2022, we had $199.5 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand, which includes $0.7 million of restricted cash. We believe our cash on hand is sufficient to meet our current working capital needs, planned operating expenses and capital expenditure for a period of at least 12 months from the date of this Quarterly Report. 34 The design, assembly, integration, testing and launch of satellites and related ground infrastructure is capital-intensive. We currently estimate the capital expenditures required for the design, assembly and launch of our first 20 commercial satellites to be between approximately $300.0 million and $340.0 million. We expect that the initial five satellites will use existing components from our BW3 test satellite design including FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array), reaction wheels and antennas. We believe that utilizing these existing components and technology will enable us to launch these satellites sooner, but will also result in an increase in cost per satellite due to the current higher costs of these first generation components. The cost of the satellite configuration has also increased due to the impacts of inflation, supply chain disruptions, design changes, and increases in the cost of electronic components, assembly equipment, launch costs, salaries and other aspects of our satellite design and assembly activities. These estimated costs are preliminary estimates and based on certain assumptions and information currently available to us and are subject to changes based on numerous factors, including potential price changes, supply chain disruptions, design changes, delays in development of components and materials, launch costs, launch insurance, and other factors. Accordingly, actual costs may materially differ from our current estimates. We will require additional capital to assemble and launch the BB satellites and provide the SpaceMobile Service. We expect to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity related or debt securities, or through obtaining credit from government or financial institutions or commercial partners, although our ability to access the capital markets during this period of volatility may require us to modify our current expectations. We are in discussions with financial institutions regarding equipment financing to enhance liquidity. The additional capital will be necessary to fund ongoing operations, continue research, development and design efforts, improve infrastructure, and launch satellites. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot raise additional funds when needed, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We have contractual obligations, including non-cancellable operating leases for office space, with terms expiring through February 2028. During the nine months ended September 30, 2022, there were no material changes from the future minimum annual rental payments required under the operating lease agreements described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. As of September 30, 2022, we had contractual commitments with third parties in the aggregate amount of $63.3 million related to R&D programs, capital improvements, and procurement of BB satellite components. We expect these commitments will continue to increase as we complete the supply chain and electronics development in preparation for the production and launch of the BB satellites. Common Stock Purchase Agreement On May 6, 2022, we entered into the Common Stock Purchase Agreement (the Common Stock Purchase Agreement) with B. Riley. Pursuant to the Common Stock Purchase Agreement, we have the right, in our sole discretion, to sell to B. Riley up to $75.0 million of shares of our Class A common stock at 97% of the volume weighted average price (VWAP) of the Class A common stock calculated in accordance with the Common Stock Purchase Agreement, over a period of 24 months subject to certain limitations and conditions contained in the Common Stock Purchase Agreement. Sales and timing of any sales of Class A common stock are solely at our election, and we are under no obligation to sell any securities to B. Riley under the Common Stock Purchase Agreement. As consideration for B. Rileys commitment to purchase shares of the Companys Class A common stock, we have issued 43,938 shares of our Class A common stock as commitment shares and will issue up to an aggregate of 43,938 shares of our Class A common stock if certain conditions are met. Other than the issuance of the commitment shares of our Class A common stock to B. Riley, we issued 1,756,993 shares of our Class A common stock to raise capital under the Common Stock Purchase Agreement as of September 30, 2022, aggregating to net proceeds of $13.4 million under the Common Stock Purchase Agreement. Proceeds from the sale of our Class A common stock under the Common Stock Purchase Agreement were and will continue to be used for general corporate purposes. Equity Distribution Agreement On September 8, 2022, we entered into the Sales Agreement with Evercore Group L.L.C. and B. Riley Securities, Inc. (collectively, the agents) to sell shares of our Class A common stock having an aggregate sales price of up to $150.0 million through an at the market offering program under which the agents will act as sales agents. The agents are entitled to total compensation at a commission rate of up to 3.0% of the gross sales price per share sold. Under the Sales Agreement, the Company issued 522,051 shares of its Class A common stock as of September 30, 2022 aggregating to proceeds of $3.6 million, net of commissions paid to agents and transaction costs. In addition, the Company sold 95,512 shares of its Class A common stock for total net proceeds of $0.7 million, which were not issued and are pending settlement as of September 30, 2022, in accordance with the Sales Agreement settlement term. Proceeds from the sale of our Class A common stock under the Sales Agreement were and will continue to be used for general corporate purposes. 35 Texas Financing Agreement In December 2021, concurrent with the purchase of real property and equipment in Midland, Texas, our wholly-owned subsidiary, AST & Science Texas, LLC (AST Texas), entered into a new Credit Agreement providing for a $5.0 million term loan secured by the property. Borrowings under the term loan bear interest at a fixed rate equal to 4.20% per annum until December 7, 2026, and from December 8, 2026 until December 8, 2028 at a fixed rate per annum equal to 4.20% subject to adjustment if the index rate as defined in the Credit Agreement is greater than 4.20%. See the notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements (Refer to Note 9 for further information). The Credit Agreement contains certain customary events of default, and certain covenants that limit AST Texas ability to, among other things, create liens on collateral, consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets; and enter into certain transactions with its affiliates. If AST Texas fails to perform its obligations under these and other covenants, or should any event of default occur, the term loan may be terminated and any outstanding borrowings, together with unpaid accrued interest, could be declared immediately due and payable, and the lender will be authorized to take possession of the collateral. Cash Flows Historical Cash Flows The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands) (unaudited): For the Nine Months Ended September 30, (unaudited) 2022 2021 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 199,529 $ 360,390 Cash used in operating activities $ (121,424 ) $ (58,612 ) Cash used in investing activities (19,814 ) (40,494 ) Cash provided by financing activities 17,298 416,878 Operating activities Cash used in operating activities was $(121.4) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, including $14.8 million of deposits paid to a launch provider related to the first BB initial payment and a launch reservation fee for a future BB launch, as compared to cash used in operating activities of $(58.6) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The $48.0 million increase in cash used in operating activities, excluding the above mentioned deposits paid to the launch provider, was attributable to higher operating expenses as a result of an increase in headcount, research and development efforts, software license costs, professional services fees and other office related expenses, and an increase in advances paid to vendors for development and procurement of long-lead components for our BB satellites. Investing activities Cash used in investing activities was $(19.8) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, as compared to cash used in investing activities of $(40.5) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021. The $20.7 million decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to net proceeds (net of transaction costs and cash balance of Nano deconsolidated as on the date of sale) of $26.0 million received from the Nano Share Sale and a $4.1 million decrease in BW3 test satellite assembly costs offset by $9.4 million increase in purchases of property and equipment including construction costs incurred at our new Texas facility. Financing activities Cash provided by financing activities was $17.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2022, as compared to cash provided by financing activities of $416.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2021. Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 was attributable to the proceeds from the Business Combination. Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was primarily attributable to the sale of shares of Class A common stock under the Common Stock Purchase Agreement and Sales Agreement. 36 Impact of Inflation While inflation may impact our capital and operating expenditures, we believe the effects of inflation on our historical results of operations and financial condition have not been significant. However, there can be no assurance that our results of operations, capital cost estimates, and financial condition will not be materially impacted by the current heightened levels of inflation. Funding Requirements We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements for at least 12 months from the date hereof. However, our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary materially. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could expend capital resources sooner than we expect. Future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: Establishing and maintaining supply and manufacturing relationships with third parties that can provide adequate, in both amount and quality, products and services to support our satellite development; Technological or manufacturing difficulties, design issues or other unforeseen matters; Negotiation of launch agreements (including launch costs), launch delays or failures, deployment failures, or in-orbit satellite failures; Addressing any competing technological and market developments; Seeking and obtaining market access approvals; and Attracting, hiring, and retaining qualified personnel. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial revenues to support our cost structure, we expect to finance cash needs through a combination of equity offerings, debt financings, commercial and other similar arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of stockholders will be, or could be, diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise funds through commercial agreements or other similar arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies and/or future revenue streams, or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us and/or may reduce the value of our common stock. Also, our ability to raise necessary financing could be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, recent geopolitical events, and inflationary economic conditions and their effects on the market conditions. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market other services even if we would otherwise prefer to develop and market these services ourselves, or potentially discontinue operations. Critical Accounting Policies Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). Preparation of the financial statements requires our management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that impact the reported amount of revenue and expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We consider an accounting judgment, estimate or assumption to be critical when (1) the estimate or assumption is complex in nature or requires a high degree of judgment and (2) the use of different judgments, estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. For a discussion of our critical accounting policies, see Critical Accounting Policies in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2022. 37