Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Except as otherwise noted or where the context requires otherwise, references in this report (this Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to AST SpaceMobile, Inc. and references to our management refer to our officers and directors. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report and with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, including our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes contained therein. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to dollars and $ in this Quarterly Report are to, and all monetary amounts in this Quarterly Report are presented in, U.S. dollars. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements for the purposes of federal securities laws that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek, plan, predict, potential, and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report may include, for example, statements about: our strategies and future financial performance, including our business plans or objectives, products and services, pricing, marketing plans, operating expenses, market trends, revenues, liquidity, cash flows and uses of cash and capital expenditures; expected functionality of the SpaceMobile Service; the timing of the assembly, integration and testing as well as regulatory approvals for the launch of our next generation of commercial BB satellites (Block 2 BB satellites); anticipated timing and level of deployment of satellites and anticipated developments in technology included in our satellites; anticipated demand and acceptance of mobile satellite services; anticipated costs necessary to execute our business plan, many of which are preliminary estimates subject to change based upon a variety of factors, including but not limited to our success in deploying and testing our constellation of satellites; anticipated timing of our needs for capital or expected incurrence of future costs; prospective performance and commercial opportunities and competitors; our ability to continue to raise funds to finance our operating expenses, working capital and capital expenditures; commercial partnership acquisition and retention; the negotiation of definitive agreements with Mobile Netwrok Operators (MNOs) and governmental entities relating to the SpaceMobile Service that would supersede preliminary agreements and memoranda of understanding; our success in retaining or recruiting, or changes required in, our officers, key employees or directors; our expansion plans and opportunities, including the size of our addressable market; our ability to comply with domestic and foreign regulatory regimes and the timing of obtaining regulatory approvals; changes in applicable laws or regulations; our ability to invest in growth initiatives and enter into new geographic markets; the possibility we may be adversely affected by other economic, business and/or competitive factors; the outcome of any legal proceedings that may be instituted against us; our ability to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest in the ordinary course of our business; our ability to consummate the proposed strategic transaction with Ligado, including our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our proposed transaction with Ligado and to satisfy the conditions to funding under the Sound Point Credit Facility; and changes in U.S. trade policy, including changes to existing trade agreements and any resulting changes in international trade relations. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors included 25 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 and in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2025. The Companys filings with the SEC can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are building the first and only global Cellular Broadband network in space to be accessible directly by everyday smartphones (2G/4G-LTE/5G devices) for commercial use, and other applications for government use utilizing our extensive intellectual property (IP) and patent portfolio. The SpaceMobile Service is being designed to provide cost-effective, high-speed Cellular Broadband services to end-users who are out of terrestrial cellular coverage using existing mobile devices. The SpaceMobile Service currently is planned to be provided by a constellation of high-powered, large phased-array satellites in low Earth orbit (LEO) using low-band and mid-band spectrum controlled by MNOs. On March 22, 2025, we and certain of our subsidiaries entered into certain definitive agreements with Ligado Networks LLC (Ligado LLC) and its subsidiaries (together with Ligado LLC, Ligado) for usage rights for mid-band spectrum, which were approved by the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the Bankruptcy Court) on June 23, 2025. Subject to the completion of certain conditions, including regulatory approval, as a result of the transaction with Ligado, we expect our network will be enhanced by our long-term access to up to 45 MHz of the lower mid-band satellite spectrum in the United States and Canada through our usage agreements. On August 5, 2025, we entered into an agreement to acquire an entity that holds certain S-Band International Telecommunication Union (ITU) priority rights to Mobile Satellite Services (MSS) frequencies in the range of 1980-2010 MHz and 2170-2200 MHz, for use in LEO. Upon closing, we expect our network will be further enhanced by up to 60 MHz of mid-band satellite spectrum globally. This transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2025, subject to completion of customary closing conditions. As of June 30, 2025, our IP portfolio consists of approximately 3,700 patent and patent pending claims worldwide, of which approximately 1,700 have been officially granted or allowed. This includes 36 patent families worldwide. Our patents have various terms expiring starting 2039. We are headquartered in Texas where we operate over 200,000 square feet satellite assembly, integrating and testing (AIT) facilities. We intend to work with MNOs to offer the SpaceMobile Service to the MNOs end-user customers. We currently have partnerships with over 50 MNOs with nearly 3 billion subscribers globally. Our vision is that users will not need to subscribe to the SpaceMobile Service directly through us, nor will they need to purchase any new or additional equipment. Instead, users will be able to access the SpaceMobile Service when prompted on their mobile device that they are no longer within range of the land-based facilities of the MNOs or will be able to purchase a plan directly with their existing mobile provider. We intend to seek to use a revenue-sharing business model for the SpaceMobile Service in our agreements with MNOs. The SpaceMobile Service is expected to be highly attractive to MNOs as it will enable them to improve and differentiate their service offering without significant incremental capital investments. The SpaceMobile Service is expected to enable MNOs to augment and extend their coverage without building towers or other land-based infrastructure, including where it is not cost-justified or is difficult due to geographical challenges. As a result of the incremental coverage created by the planned SpaceMobile Service, we believe that MNOs will have the opportunity to increase subscribers average revenue per user. We also intend to leverage our patented technology, including large phased array and high power capability of our BlueBird (BB) satellites, for a variety of applications in the government sector. To this end, we have entered into agreements with prime contractors for the United States (U.S.) government to perform certain tasks, including a new contract award entered in February 2025 with the United States Space Development Agency (SDA) through a prime contractor with total expected revenue of $43.0 million to provide certain testing services utilizing the five Block 1 BB satellites (defined below) and one next generation Block 2 BB satellite and a new contract award entered in April 2025 with the Defense Innovation Unit (DIU) through a prime contractor with total expected revenue of up to approximately $20.0 million for SpaceMobile capabilities with multiple U.S. government agencies in support of government communications over land, sea, and air. We intend to seek to enter into other similar agreements with the U.S. government, either directly or through prime contractors, to develop and test certain non-communication applications and, once qualified, provide certain non-communication and communication services through our satellites. On April 1, 2019, we launched our first test satellite, BlueWalker 1, which was used to validate our satellite to cellular architecture and was capable of managing communications delays from LEO and the effects of doppler in a satellite to ground cellular environment using the 4G-LTE protocol. We launched our Blue Walker 3 (BW3) test satellite on September 10, 2022, and announced the completion of the deployment of the communication phased array antenna of the BW3 test satellite in orbit on November 14, 2022. Using the BW3 test satellite, we successfully completed two-way 5G voice calls directly to standard unmodified smartphones, achieved repeated successful download speeds of above 21 megabits per second (Mbps) to standard unmodified smartphones and spectral efficiency of approximately 3 bits per second per hertz. We have also successfully completed initial in-orbit and ground testing for non-communication government applications. We intend to continue testing capabilities of the BW3 test satellite, including further testing with cellular service providers and the U.S. government. 26 We launched five first generation commercial BB satellites (Block 1 BB satellites) on September 12, 2024. The Block 1 BB satellites are of similar size and weight to the BW3 test satellite and have ten times higher throughput than the BW3 test satellite. In October 2024, we completed the deployment of the communication phased array antennas and Q/V antennas in orbit and performed a series of monitoring tests and activities to confirm the successful initial operations of the Block 1 BB satellites. In January 2025, we successfully made the first SpaceMobile video call from space with Vodafone using standard unmodified smartphones. In February 2025, we completed the voice and video call tests on standard unmodified smartphones with AT&T and Verizon in the United States and also completed the tests for non-communication applications for the U.S. government. All five Block 1 BB satellites have participated in the tests at various stages. In April 2025, together with Rakuten Mobile, Inc., we successfully conducted a two-way broadband video call in front of a live audience using unmodified smartphones on the SpaceMobile network enabled by a Block 1 BB satellite in orbit today. On July 21, 2025, we and AT&T made the first-ever Voice over LTE call and short message service over satellite using AT&Ts spectrum and core network with a standard unmodified cell phone. We expect to continue testing for SpaceMobile Service automation including beta testing prior to rollout of initial noncontinuous SpaceMobile Service in select markets including the United States, Europe and Japan. The SpaceMobile Service has not been launched and therefore has not yet generated any revenue. We currently plan to utilize the Block 1 BB satellites to initiate a limited, noncontinuous SpaceMobile Service in targeted geographical markets, including in the United States, and validate and test non-commercial government applications and seek to generate revenue from such services. Prior to initiating SpaceMobile Service in each jurisdiction, we will need to obtain regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where we would provide such service and would need to enter into commercial agreements with MNOs relating to the offering of such service in each jurisdiction. We received an initial license from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to launch and operate the Block 1 BB satellites using S- and UHF-band frequencies to support orbit raising maneuvers and Telemetry, Tracking, and Command operations, and to employ the V-band for routine gateway feeder link operations. In the United States, we obtained special temporary authorities (STAs) for service link operations from the FCC, under which we have begun testing in the United States employing low-band spectrum from AT&T and Verizon and received FCC authorization to test our space-based Cellular Broadband network on Band 14the dedicated spectrum for first responders and the public safety community on FirstNet, built with AT&T. We have also obtained STAs in Turkey and the United Kingdom with Vodafone, in Canada with Bell Canada, and in Japan with Rakuten Mobile Inc. In July 2025, we received an experimental authorization from the FCC to launch and operate our first Block 2 BB satellite (FM 1) using S- and UHF-band frequencies to support orbit raising maneuvers and Telemetry, Tracking, and Command operations. Further, we have filed our Part 25 modification application for authority to launch and operate our full 248 LEO satellite network and authority to operate in the 700/800 MHz bands for supplemental coverage from space (SCS). We also have filed an amendment to our Part 25 modification application to add SCS use of 700 MHz spectrum licensed to FirstNet. The FCC has accepted and placed on public notice the part of our application to enable us to begin launching our satellite network. We expect the FCC to accept and place on public notice the rest of our application in the near future. Before we begin providing full commercial SpaceMobile Service, we will need a grant of our pending Part 25 license and we will need to obtain additional approvals from other regulatory authorities outside the United States. AST SpaceMobile has also filed with the FCC requests for new gateway STAs for several locations to communicate in the Q/V band with our full 248-satellite constellation, including FM 1 and the Block 2 BB satellites. We have entered into a space-based wireless connectivity agreement with AT&T to provide SpaceMobile Service to AT&Ts end users for use within the continental United States (excluding Alaska) and Hawaii and with Vodafone to provide SpaceMobile Services to Vodafones end users for use outside the United States. We plan to enter into a commercial agreement with Verizon in the United States. We are also expanding our efforts on ground infrastructure development for commercial readiness and integrating our SpaceMobile Service into the MNOs infrastructure to initiate commercial services. Beginning in the first quarter of 2024, we have recognized revenue from completion of performance obligations under agreements with prime contractors for the U.S. government and expect to continue to recognize revenue as and when we complete the remaining performance obligations under the agreements. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2024, we began to generate revenue from the resale of gateway equipment and associated services to MNOs. We believe initiation of limited, noncontinuous SpaceMobile Service, as well as completing the milestones under the agreements with prime contractors for the U.S. government, will help to demonstrate the advantages of our satellite-based Cellular Broadband service in the market. These market activities will commence while we continue the development and testing of the next generation of commercial BB satellites. Our next generation of commercial BB satellites, Block 2 BB satellites, featuring up to approximately 2,400 square feet communication array, the largest communication array to be ever deployed in a LEO for commercial use and more than three times bigger than the communication array of the Block 1 BB satellites in orbit today, are designed to deliver up to 10 times the bandwidth capacity of the Block 1 BB satellites. We believe the larger aperture array is expected to provide greater spectrum reuse, enhanced signal strength and increased capacity, thereby reducing the necessary number of satellites to achieve service coverage as compared to smaller apertures. In addition, when we introduce our own AST5000 Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) chip in the Block 2 BB satellites, we expect to achieve materially greater throughput capacity of up to 40 MHz per beam to support 120 Mbps peak data rates and up to 10,000 MHz of processing bandwidth per Block 2 BB satellite, require less power and offer a lower overall unit cost. We have reached key production milestones and are in the assembly stage of the first batch of the ASIC chip. We have also completed development of the electronic board with our new ASIC chip. Until we introduce our ASIC chip in Block 2 BB satellites, we expect to continue to manufacture and launch Block 2 BB satellites that are based on a Field Programmable Gate Arrays chip. We have entered into launch agreements with multiple launch service providers which will allow us to accelerate a planned launch campaign during 2025 and 2026 to launch over 60 Block 2 BB satellites. We have commenced assembling and testing the Block 2 BB 27 satellites in accordance with our plan to meet this launch campaign to enable Continuous SpaceMobile Service, which means with respect to a particular geographical market close to 100% reliable persistent service across the geographical areas within certain latitudes and a substantially high degree of reliable persistent service across the remaining geographical areas outside the said latitudes, coverage across key markets such as the United States, Europe, Japan and other strategic markets as well as to facilitate U.S. government applications. We expect to be ready to ship FM 1, our seventh satellite to be launched into orbit, in August 2025. We are engaged with the launch provider to mutually determine the launch date of FM 1. Our launch campaign of over 60 Block 2 BB satellites in 2025 through 2026 is planned at a cadence of one launch approximately every one to two months on average. The timing of shipment and launch of the Block 2 BB satellites are contingent on a number of factors including satisfactory and timely completion of the assembly and testing of the Block 2 BB satellites, regulatory approvals for the shipment and launch, availability of capital, readiness of the launch vehicle, logistics and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We are developing a phased satellite deployment plan and a corresponding commercial launch plan of the SpaceMobile Service based on targeted geographical markets to provide the SpaceMobile Service to the most commercially attractive MNO markets. This prioritization of coverage is designed to minimize the capital required to initiate and operate commercial service that generates cash flows from operating activities sooner. We expect that such a successful commercial service would enable us to attract additional capital to continue to assemble and launch additional BB satellites to expand our capacity and geographic coverage area, although there can be no assurance that such capital would be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We are progressing according to our previously announced plan for the procurement and production of Block 2 BB satellites in alignment with our planned 2025 and 2026 launch cadence. Supplier agreements and orders are in place for the procurement of substantially all materials and components needed, in accordance with our production plan, for the assembly, integration and testing necessary to complete 40 fully integrated and assembled Block 2 BB satellites and fully assembled microns and phased array for 53 Block 2 BB satellites. Our manufacturing, assembly, and testing strategy for Block 2 BB satellites includes continuous production and assembly of various components and sub systems for economies of scale, cost efficiencies, and unlocking capacity constraints, to build sufficient quantity of components and sub systems readily available on hand to be able to complete the final integration and testing of the required number of Block 2 BB satellites closer to the planned launch timelines. As of the date of this Quarterly Report, we have completed the microns for eight Block 2 BB satellites and completed acceptance and testing of substantially all components and sub systems for the integration and assembly of multiple Block 2 BB satellites. We will continue with manufacturing, assembly, integration and testing of the Block 2 BB satellites at our current capacity and once we complete our planned investments to increase the capacity to assemble, integrate, and test up to six Block 2 BB satellites per month in 2025, we plan to accelerate the manufacturing, assembly, integration and testing of the Block 2 BB satellites to meet our planned launches in 2025 and 2026. We plan to achieve noncontinuous SpaceMobile Service in the selected, targeted geographical markets with the launch and operation of a total of 25 BB satellites (five Block 1 BB satellites and 20 Block 2 BB satellites). We believe the operation of a constellation of 25 BB satellites will enable us to potentially generate cash flows from operating activities to further support the buildup of the remaining constellation. We believe we can enable Continuous SpaceMobile Service coverage across key markets such as the United States, Europe, Japan and other strategic markets with the launch and operation of a total of approximately 45 to 60 BB satellites, and achieve Continuous SpaceMobile Service in all targeted geographical markets to meet our long term business goals with the launch and operation of a total of approximately 90 BB satellites. We anticipate launching and deploying additional satellites beyond the initial 90 satellites in order to enhance coverage and system capacity in response to incremental market demand. Continuous coverage is not expected to be available at all times in certain areas due to numerous factors, including number of active satellites in the region, latitude coverage range, and other factors. Our current plan is subject to numerous uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including satisfactory and timely completion of assembly and testing of the satellites, regulatory approvals, readiness of launch vehicles, availability of launch windows by the launch providers, logistics, our ability to raise additional capital for manufacturing of satellites and launch payments, proposed orbits and resulting satellite coverage, launch costs, ability to enter into agreements with MNOs and other factors. We may adopt a strategy for commercial launch of the SpaceMobile Service, including the nature and type of services offered and the geographic markets where we may launch such services, that may differ materially from our current plan. We are an early stage company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with early stage companies. Please refer to Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 and in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2025. Recent Developments Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction and Related Financing In March 2025, we entered into agreements with Ligado for the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction (defined below) which was approved by the Bankruptcy Court on June 23, 2025. The closing of the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction is still subject to receipt of satisfactory regulatory approvals required for the proposed use of the spectrum, as well as other closing conditions. On June 13, 2025, we announced a Term Sheet (defined below) among various parties including us, Ligado, Viasat, Inc. and Inmarsat Global Limited (Inmarsat). The Term Sheet provides that, among other things, as part of Ligados ongoing restructuring, Inmarsat will support us receiving long-term spectrum usage rights for 80 years or more with respect to up to 40 MHz of L-Band MSS spectrum in the United States and Canada held by Ligado, plus access to up to an additional 5 MHz in the 1670-1675 MHz Band in the United States. In addition, under the Term Sheet, Inmarsat has agreed to provide affirmative support for our planned regulatory applications with the FCC 28 in the United States and Innovation, Science and Economic Development (ISED) in Canada seeking authority to operate a Non-Geostationary Orbit (NGSO) system within the L-Band mid-band spectrum in North America. The Term Sheet supplements the definitive documents previously entered into between us and Ligado. Closing of the Ligado Transaction will be subject to receipt of satisfactory regulatory approvals required for the proposed use of the spectrum, as well as other closing conditions. The Term Sheet also provides that, of the $550.0 million consideration to be paid by us to Ligado, $535.0 million will be paid to Ligado for the benefit of Inmarsat so long as Ligados Chapter 11 plan is confirmed and the financial sponsors of Ligado provide a backstop commitment to Ligado that is acceptable to us, in support of a full refund of payments by Ligado in the event applicable regulatory approvals are not obtained and the closing does not occur. On July 15, 2025, SpectrumCo entered into the Sound Point Credit Facility with Sound Point Agency LLC and the lenders from time to time party thereto. The proceeds of the loan borrowed under the Sound Point Credit Facility would be used to support certain payment obligations owed to Ligado relating to the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction. The Sound Point Credit Facility will be available to SpectrumCo upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, including receipt of all required regulatory and FCC approvals relating to the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction. Refer to discussion under Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction and Related Financing in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below for further details. No assurance can be provided that the Ligado transaction will be consummated or that the related financing will be disbursed. The Ligado transaction and the disbursement of the related financing are subject to a number of conditions, including regulatory approval. In addition, Ligados ongoing bankruptcy proceedings present risks that the Ligado transaction will not be consummated. Moreover, even if the Ligado transaction is consummated, the benefits of the Ligado transaction will be subject to, among other things, integration, technology and regulatory risks. The Ligado transaction may significantly increase our indebtedness (though any debt incurred pursuant to the Sound Point Credit Facility will be non-recourse to us) and our annual required cash spend. Vodafone Joint Venture On July 7, 2025, we entered into an agreement with Vodafone to create a jointly-owned European satellite service business (SatCo), headquartered in Luxembourg, to exclusively distribute AST SpaceMobiles broadband satellite services to MNOs in European markets. In addition, SatCo is expected to deploy a small network of earth stations that integrate with operators of existing 4G/5G terrestrial networks, providing backhaul links, as well as extended coverage across Europe from our anticipated satellite constellation in LEO. Vodafone Idea Strategic Partnership On June 18, 2025, we announced a strategic partnership with Vodafone Idea (Vi), Indias leading telecom service provider, to expand mobile connectivity across Indias unconnected regions. AST SpaceMobile and Vi intend to collaborate on the design, implementation, and launch of the SpaceMobile Satellite System, a space-based Cellular Broadband ecosystem that will be designed to expand Vis telecom services of terrestrial connectivity, providing voice, video, data streaming, and internet access. We are expected to develop, manufacture, and manage the satellite constellation, and Vi is expected to oversee terrestrial network integration, operating spectrum, and market access. 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes On July 29, 2025, we issued $575.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2032, including the exercise in full of the option granted to the initial purchasers to purchase up to $75.0 million aggregate principal amount of notes. The 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes are our senior, unsecured obligations and bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.375% per year, payable semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 of each year, beginning on April 15, 2026. The 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes will mature on October 15, 2032, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed, or converted. The 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes are convertible at the option of the holders under certain circumstances. Upon conversion, we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our Class A Common Stock or a combination of cash and shares of our Class A Common Stock, at our election. Refer to discussion under 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below for further details. July 2025 Capped Calls On July 29, 2025, in connection with the issuance of the 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes, we entered into privately negotiated July 2025 Capped Calls with certain financial institutions at a cost of approximately $54.0 million. The July 2025 Capped Calls cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of Class A Common Stock underlying the 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes. The July 2025 Capped Calls have an initial strike price of approximately $72.07 per share and an initial cap price of $120.12 per share, which are subject to certain adjustments under the terms of the July 2025 Capped Calls. Repurchases of Existing Convertible Notes On July 3, 2025 and July 31, 2025, we completed the repurchase of $225.0 million and $135.0 million, respectively, of the outstanding principal amount of the 2032 4.25% Convertible Notes in separate, privately negotiated repurchase transactions with a limited number of note holders and funded the repurchases with the net proceeds from a registered direct offering of 9,450,268 and 5,775,635 shares of our Class A Common Stock to the same note holders participating in the note repurchases. Refer to discussion under 2032 4.25% Convertible Notes in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below for further details. 29 Global S-Band Spectrum Priority Rights Acquisition On August 5, 2025, we entered into an agreement to acquire an entity that holds certain S-Band ITU priority rights to MSS frequencies in the range of 1980-2010 MHz and 2170-2200 MHz, for use in LEO (the Transaction). The Transaction has a total consideration of $64.5 million, to be paid in stock or cash at our election, with (i) $26.0 million to be paid at closing, (ii) $10.0 million to be paid on the second anniversary of closing, and (iii) $10.0 million to be paid on the third anniversary of closing. Additionally, we are obligated to pay $16.65 million upon the successful launch and effective in-service of a L/S satellite to be manufactured and $1.85 million upon continuous operation of such L/S satellite for a period of at least ninety (90) days. The Transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2025, subject to completion of customary closing conditions. Impact of Global Macroeconomic Conditions and Geopolitical Conflicts We continue to closely monitor the impact of macroeconomic conditions, including heightened inflation, changes to fiscal and monetary policies, higher interest rates, volatility in the capital markets, supply chain challenges, imposition of tariffs and geopolitical conflicts on all aspects of our business across geographies, including how it has and may continue to impact our operations, workforce, suppliers, and our ability to raise additional capital to fund operating and capital expenditures. Changes in the prices of satellite materials due to inflation, supply chain challenges, tariffs, and other macroeconomic factors may affect our capital cost estimates to build and launch the satellite constellation and adversely affect our financial condition. The extent of impact of these factors on our business will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence at this time. To date, these factors have not had a material impact to our technology development efforts or results of our operations. However, if macroeconomic conditions deteriorate or there are unforeseen developments, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We operate from multiple locations that include our corporate headquarters and over 200,000 square feet of AIT facilities in Texas where the final AIT is performed, engineering and development centers in the United States, India and Scotland, and engineering, development and production centers in Spain and Israel. Our operations in Israel constitute approximately 1% of our consolidated total assets and approximately 10% of our consolidated total operating expenses. To date, our operations in Israel have not been materially impacted by the geopolitical conflict in the Middle East. We currently do not expect potential interruptions to our operations in Israel to have a material impact on the Company. Factors Affecting Comparability of Our Future Results of Operations to Our Historical Results of Operations Our historical financial performance has been, and we expect our financial performance in the future to be, driven by our ability to execute on our strategy. We believe that our future results of operations could differ materially from the historical results of operations as we initiate the limited, noncontinuous SpaceMobile Service in certain targeted geographical markets, secure additional contracts with the U.S. government or its prime contractors for non-commercial use of our BB satellites, complete the development of the Block 2 BB satellites, increase our capacity and scale to manufacture BB satellites for the planned launches, launch the Block 2 BB satellites, enter into commercial arrangements with additional MNOs, and close our proposed transaction with Ligado and related financing. Components of Results of Operations Revenues To date, we have not generated any revenues from our SpaceMobile Service and do not expect to generate revenue until we launch the limited, noncontinuous SpaceMobile Service. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2025, we recognized $1.2 million and $1.9 million of revenue, respectively, from performance obligations completed under agreements with prime contractors for U.S. government contracts and from resale of gateway equipment to MNOs. We expect to continue to recognize revenue under these agreements with prime contractors for U.S. government contracts and under gateway equipment resale agreements with MNOs as and when we complete the remaining performance obligations. We currently plan to initiate a limited, noncontinuous SpaceMobile Service in the United States. Engineering Services Costs Engineering services costs are charged to expense as incurred. Engineering services costs consist primarily of the cost of employees and consultants involved in designing and developing the BB satellites, managing the network and satellite operations centers, and indirectly supporting the assembly, integration and testing of the BB satellites, license cost, and general expenses related to AIT facilities and engineering development centers. General and Administrative Costs General and administrative costs include the costs of insurance, cost of non-engineering personnel and personnel related expenses, software licensing and subscriptions, office and facilities expenses, investor relations, and professional services, including public relations, accounting and legal fees. 30 Research and Development Costs Research and development (R&D) costs are charged to expense as incurred. R&D costs consist principally of development activities in which we typically engage third-party vendors and are largely driven by the achievement of milestones that trigger payments and costs of materials and supplies consumed in the R&D activities. R&D costs are expected to fluctuate quarter over quarter depending on achievement of milestones. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense includes depreciation expense related to property and equipment including the Block 1 BB satellites. We began depreciating the Block 1 BB satellites as of October 29, 2024 over their expected remaining useful lives of approximately 60 months. Loss on Remeasurement of Warrant Liabilities Private Placement Warrants issued by us are accounted for as liability-classified instruments at their initial fair value on the date of issuance. They are remeasured on each balance sheet date and changes in the estimated fair value are recognized as an unrealized gain or loss in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Interest Expense Interest expense consists of cash interest payments and amortization of debt issuance costs associated with our debt arrangements. Interest Income Interest income consists of interest earned on cash and cash equivalents held in interest bearing demand deposit accounts. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily consists of non-operating expense and income, including foreign exchange gains or losses. Income Tax Expense AST LLC is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. Accordingly, all income, losses, and other tax attributes pass through to the members income tax returns, and no U.S. federal and state and local provision for income taxes has been recorded for AST LLC in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Certain foreign entities are taxed as corporations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, and accruals for such taxes are included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Noncontrolling Interest Noncontrolling interest primarily represents the equity interest in AST LLC held by members other than us. We attribute a portion of net income or loss generated at AST LLC to the noncontrolling interest based on their ownership interests. As of June 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, the noncontrolling interest in AST LLC was approximately 26.3% and 30.1%, respectively. The decrease in noncontrolling interest percentage during the six months ended June 30, 2025 was a result of the issuance of Class A Common Stock due to the conversion of the 2034 Convertible Notes, the issuance of Class A Common Stock under the 2024 Sales Agreement and the 2025 Sales Agreement, the redemption of AST LLC Common Units in exchange for Class A Common Stock, the exercise of options for Class A Common Stock and the vesting of restricted stock units. 31 Results of Operations Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Compared to the Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 We report our results of operations under one operating segment. The following table sets forth a summary of our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024 (in thousands), and the discussion that follows compares the three months ended June 30, 2025 to the three months ended June 30, 2024. For the Three months ended June 30, (unaudited) 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Revenues $ 1,156 $ 900 $ 256 28 % Operating expenses: Engineering services costs 28,598 21,202 7,396 35 General and administrative costs 27,242 17,839 9,403 53 Research and development costs 6,393 4,460 1,933 43 Depreciation and amortization 11,720 20,392 (8,672 ) (43 ) Total operating expenses 73,953 63,893 10,060 16 Other income (expense): Loss on remeasurement of warrant liabilities (65,032 ) (66,140 ) 1,108 (2 ) Interest expense (5,657 ) (4,936 ) (721 ) 15 Interest income 8,017 2,698 5,319 * Other income (expense), net 308 252 56 22 Total other income (expense), net (62,364 ) (68,126 ) 5,762 (8 ) Loss before income tax expense (135,161 ) (131,119 ) (4,042 ) 3 Income tax expense (742 ) (231 ) (511 ) * Net loss before allocation to noncontrolling interest (135,903 ) (131,350 ) (4,553 ) 3 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (36,509 ) (58,800 ) 22,291 (38 ) Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (99,394 ) $ (72,550 ) $ (26,844 ) 37 % * Percentage greater than or equal to 100 or not meaningful Revenues Revenues increased by $0.3 million, or 28%, to $1.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The increase was primarily attributable to increase in revenue from completion of performance obligations under agreements with prime contractors for U.S. Government contracts. Engineering Services Costs Total engineering services costs increased by $7.4 million, or 35%, to $28.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The increase was attributable to a $4.9 million increase in payroll and employee related costs driven by an increase in headcount and higher stock-based compensation expenses, a $1.4 million increase in consultants and professional fees, a $1.0 million increase in AIT facilities and activities and engineering development centers costs resulting from expansion of global facilities footprint, and a $0.1 million increase in other expenses. General and Administrative Costs Total general and administrative costs increased by $9.4 million, or 53%, to $27.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The increase was attributable to a $5.4 million increase in legal costs largely driven by our Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction and related financing and our joint venture with Vodafone, a $2.3 million increase in consultants and other professional services, $1.0 million increase in payroll and employee related costs driven by an increase in headcount, and a $0.7 million increase in other expense. Research and Development Costs Total R&D costs increased by $1.9 million, or 43%, to $6.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The increase in R&D costs was primarily attributable to the development and design of the Block 2 BB satellites beyond FM 1 and our ASIC chip, partially offset by completion of the development of the Block 1 BB satellites. Depreciation and Amortization 32 Total depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $8.7 million, or 43%, to $11.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease was due to a lower depreciation expense recognized for the Block 1 BB satellites, which we launched in September 2024, as compared to the depreciation expense recognized in the comparative period for the BW3 test satellite which was fully depreciated as of August 30, 2024. Loss on Remeasurement of Warrant Liabilities The fair value adjustment for Private Placement Warrants outstanding at June 30, 2025 resulted in a loss of $65.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to a loss of $66.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease in loss was largely driven by changes in our share price. Interest Expense Interest expense increased by $0.7 million, or 15%, to $5.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The increase in interest expense was largely due to an increase in interest expense recognized on the 2032 4.25% Convertible Notes we issued on January 27, 2025, partially offset by decreases in interest expense recognized on the 2034 Convertible Notes, which we converted into shares of our Class A Common Stock on January 22, 2025, and on a senior secured credit facility which we terminated on November 13, 2024. Interest Income Interest income was $8.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to interest income of $2.7 million for three months ended June 30, 2024. The increase was driven by a higher cash and cash equivalents balance held in interest bearing short-term money market funds. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income, net was $0.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025, as compared to other income, net of $0.3 million for three months ended June 30, 2024. The net change of less than $0.1 million was primarily due to a $2.2 million decrease in loss on disposal of fixed assets and a $0.7 million increase in foreign exchange gain, offset by a $2.6 million decrease in other non-operating income and a $0.3 million increase in other expense. Income Tax Expense The provision for income taxes was $(0.7) million and $(0.2) million for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The consolidated effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024 was (0.54)% and (0.18%), respectively. Refer to Note 11 Income Taxes in the accompanying notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Loss attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest was $36.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to $58.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024. This decrease in net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest was due to a decrease in noncontrolling interests ownership percentage in AST LLC, partially offset by an increase in net loss generated at AST LLC. 33 Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Compared to the Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 We report our results of operations under one operating segment. The following table sets forth a summary of our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024 (in thousands), and the discussion that follows compares the six months ended June 30, 2025 to the six months ended June 30, 2024. For the Six months ended June 30, (unaudited) 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Revenues $ 1,874 $ 1,400 $ 474 34 % Operating expenses: Engineering services costs 55,802 40,719 15,083 37 General and administrative costs 45,626 30,126 15,500 51 Research and development costs 13,528 8,711 4,817 55 Depreciation and amortization 22,678 40,336 (17,658 ) (44 ) Total operating expenses 137,634 119,892 17,742 15 Other income (expense): Loss on remeasurement of warrant liabilities (68,238 ) (47,926 ) (20,312 ) 42 Interest expense (10,393 ) (9,332 ) (1,061 ) 11 Interest income 16,213 4,872 11,341 * Other (expense) income, net (443 ) 250 (693 ) * Total other income (expense), net (62,861 ) (52,136 ) (10,725 ) 21 Loss before income tax expense (198,621 ) (170,628 ) (27,993 ) 16 Income tax expense (910 ) (526 ) (384 ) 73 Net loss before allocation to noncontrolling interest (199,531 ) (171,154 ) (28,377 ) 17 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (54,431 ) (78,874 ) 24,443 (31 ) Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (145,100 ) $ (92,280 ) $ (52,820 ) 57 % * Percentage greater than or equal to 100 or not meaningful Revenues Revenues increased by $0.5 million, or 34%, to $1.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. The increase in revenues was primarily attributable to increase in revenue from resale of gateway equipment to MNOs. Engineering Services Costs Total engineering services costs increased by $15.1 million, or 37%, to $55.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. The increase was attributable to a $9.8 million increase in payroll and employee related costs driven by an increase in headcount and higher stock-based compensation expenses, a $2.2 million increase in AIT facilities and activities and engineering development centers costs resulting from the expansion of our global facilities footprint, a $2.1 million increase in consultants and professional fees, and a $1.0 million increase in other expenses. General and Administrative Costs Total general and administrative costs increased by $15.5 million, or 51%, to $45.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. The increase was attributable to a $6.7 million increase in legal costs largely driven by our Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction and related financing and our joint venture with Vodafone, a $5.8 million increase in consultants and other professional services, a $2.2 million increase in payroll and employee related costs driven by an increase in headcount, and a $0.8 million increase in other expenses. Research and Development Costs Total R&D costs increased by $4.8 million, or 55%, to $13.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. The increase in R&D costs was primarily attributable to the development and design of the Block 2 BB satellites beyond FM 1, partially offset by completion of the development of the Block 1 BB satellites. 34 Depreciation and Amortization Total depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $17.7 million, or 44%, to $22.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease was due to a lower depreciation expense recognized for the Block 1 BB satellites, which we launched in September 2024, as compared to the depreciation expense recognized in the comparative period for the BW3 test satellite, which was fully depreciated as of August 30, 2024. Loss on Remeasurement of Warrant Liabilities The fair value adjustment for Private Placement Warrants outstanding at June 30, 2025 resulted in a loss of $68.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to a loss of $47.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024. The increase in loss was largely driven by changes in our share price. Interest Expense Interest expense increased by $1.1 million, or 11%, to $10.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. The increase in interest expense was largely due to an increase in interest expense recognized on the 2032 4.25% Convertible Notes we issued on January 27, 2025, partially offset by decreases in interest expense recognized on the 2034 Convertible Notes, which we converted into shares of our Class A Common Stock on January 22, 2025, and on a senior secured credit facility, which we terminated on November 13, 2024. Interest Income Interest income increased by $11.3 million to $16.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. The increase was driven by a higher cash and cash equivalents balance held in interest bearing short-term money market funds. Other Income (Expense), Net Other expense, net was $0.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025, as compared to other income, net of $0.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024. The $0.7 million increase in other expense, net was primarily due to a $2.6 million decrease in other non-operating income and a $0.3 million increase in other expense, partially offset by a $2.2 million decrease in loss on disposal of fixed assets. Income Tax Expense The provision for income taxes was $(0.9) million and $(0.5) million for the six months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The consolidated effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2025 and June 30, 2024 was (0.45%) and (0.31%), respectively. Refer to Note 11 Income Taxes in the accompanying notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest was $54.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to $78.9 million in the six months ended June 30, 2024. This decrease in net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest was due to a decrease in noncontrolling interests ownership percentage in AST LLC, partially offset by an increase in net loss generated at AST LLC. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our current sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents on hand. As of June 30, 2025, we had $939.4 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand, including $15.8 million of restricted cash. In July 2025, we raised additional net proceeds of approximately $111.3 million from the sale of shares of our Class A Common Stock under the 2025 ATM Equity Program (defined below) and approximately $506.0 million from the issuance of the 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes after deducting the initial purchasers discounts and commissions and the estimated offering expenses payable by us and paying the cost of the capped call hedge. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents on hand will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements, including current working capital needs, planned operating expenses and capital expenditures for a period of the next 12 months from the date of this Quarterly Report. The design, assembly, integration, testing and launch of satellites and related ground infrastructure is capital intensive. We continue to estimate the average capital costs, consisting of direct materials and launch costs, for a constellation of over 90 Block 2 BB satellites to be approximately $21.0 million to $23.0 million per satellite, with initial launches higher than that range and trending down over time as we optimize payloads and related launch terms and evaluate a multitude of launch opportunities. The estimated average capital cost per Block 2 BB satellite is based on securing future launch contracts with more favorable terms, diversifying our supply chain to include cost-effective and low-cost suppliers, cost reductions due to the benefits of economies of scale, continuous process improvements, and other factors. If we are unable to achieve the supply chain diversifications, cost reductions, process improvements, and secure favorable future launch contracts, the average capital cost of the Block 2 BB satellites will be higher and such variations could be material. 35 We believe we need to launch and operate a total of 25 BB satellites (five Block 1 BB satellites and 20 Block 2 BB satellites) in order to provide noncontinuous coverage to the most commercially attractive MNO markets and potentially generate cash flow from operating activities. We continue to believe that we are fully funded for operating expenses and capital expenditures necessary to design, manufacture, and launch 20 Block 2 BB satellites and operate a constellation of 25 BB satellites. We believe the operation of a constellation of 25 BB satellites will enable us to secure additional sources of financing, including potentially generating cash flows from operating activities to help fund the buildup of the remaining constellation along with our cash on hand that we have begun to deploy in support of manufacturing up to 40 Block 2 BB satellites. Our launch agreements with multiple launch providers allow us to accelerate a planned launch campaign during 2025 and 2026 to launch over 60 Block 2 BB satellites. Subject to our ability to raise additional capital, this provides us with a flexible option to opportunistically accelerate the buildup of the constellation of over 65 BB satellites (five Block 1 BB satellites and over 60 Block 2 BB satellites) to enable Continuous SpaceMobile Service coverage across key markets such as the United States, Europe, Japan and other strategic markets as well as to facilitate U.S. government applications. We evaluate our market, product and coverage plans based upon the attractiveness of certain markets, our technology, regulatory concerns and our access to capital and other resources. We believe we can develop satellite configurations that target delivering service to certain attractive markets without the necessity of building a constellation which covers the entire globe. This modularity of our satellite configuration enables us to alter the timing and size of our satellite roll out and provides us flexibility to dynamically change our market plans and capital requirements. As a result, we believe we have the ability to accelerate or slow down our business plan depending upon the availability of capital to support our strategies. We plan to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities (secured or unsecured), secured or unsecured loans or other debt facilities, and credit from government or financial institutions or commercial partners. Our ability to access the capital markets during this period of volatility may require us to modify our current expectations. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot raise additional funds when needed in the future, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction and Related Financing On January 5, 2025, AST LLC entered into a binding agreement (the Strategic Collaboration Term Sheet) with Ligado LLC under which we will receive long-term access to up to 45 MHz of lower mid-band spectrum in the United States and Canada for direct-to-device satellite applications. The Strategic Collaboration Term Sheet was entered into as part of the restructuring of Ligado LLC, which together with certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of United States Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court. On March 22, 2025, pursuant to the Strategic Collaboration Term Sheet, we, AST LLC, Spectrum USA I, LLC, a subsidiary of AST LLC (SpectrumCo) and Ligado entered into certain definitive agreements that, among other things, provided for (1) a $550.0 million contingent payment from us to Ligado, (2) our obligation to make spectrum access usage payments of at least $80.0 million annually (L-band Annual Payment) (with the option to pay the excess of the amount owed by Ligado to utilize the L-band spectrum in our Class A Common Stock for the first three years), and revenue share payments in exchange for the right to use the up to 40 MHz of the L-band spectrum, (3) our obligation to pay a usage fee amount due in cash (plus a 30% premium with respect to each such payment payable in our Class A Common Stock) (the Crown Castle Annual Payment) for the right to use the up to 5 MHz of the 1670-1675 MHz Spectrum, and (4) issuance of 4,714,226 penny warrants (Penny Warrants) to Ligado exercisable for shares of our Class A Common Stock at an exercise price per share equal to $0.01 per share, subject to a 12-month lock-up. On June 23, 2025, the Bankruptcy Court approved the transactions (the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction) contemplated in the Strategic Collaboration Term Sheet. The closing of the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction is subject to receipt of satisfactory regulatory approvals required for the proposed use of the spectrum, as well as other closing conditions. Settlement Term Sheet On June 13, 2025, we announced a Settlement Term Sheet (the Term Sheet) among various parties including us, Ligado, Viasat, Inc. and Inmarsat. Pursuant to the Term Sheet, once Ligados Chapter 11 plan is confirmed and as long as the financial sponsors of Ligado provide a backstop commitment to Ligado that is acceptable to us, in support of a full refund of payments by Ligado in the event applicable regulatory approvals are not obtained and the closing does not occur, we have agreed that, with respect to the $550.0 million otherwise owed to Ligado in connection with the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction, we will pay $420.0 million to Ligado for the benefit of Inmarsat on October 31, 2025, $100.0 million to Ligado for the benefit of Inmarsat on March 31, 2026 and $15.0 million to Ligado for the benefit of Inmarsat on receipt of specified regulatory approvals and the closing of the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction. The remaining $15.0 million would be paid to Ligado at closing. We intend to seek institutional financing based on this refund obligation (supported by the backstop commitment) to facilitate these obligations prior to the non-recourse senior-secured delayed-draw loan facility (described below) becoming available, although there is no assurance that it will be able to do so. Our obligation to make the L-band Annual Payment to Ligado began on June 23, 2025, and we have also commenced paying sublease spectrum amounts under the sublease with Crown Castle MM Holding LLC. 36 Sound Point Credit Facility To support the consideration that may become payable under the definitive agreements related to the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction described above, on July 15, 2025 (the Credit Facility Closing Date), SpectrumCo entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Sound Point Agency LLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the lenders from time to time party thereto. The Credit Agreement provides for a non-recourse senior-secured delayed-draw term loan facility (Sound PointCredit Facility) in an aggregate principal amount of $550.0 million (Loan Amount). The Sound Point Credit Facility will be available to draw until October 5, 2026 with an option to extend for an additional 180 days (Availability Period) subject to payment of an additional 1% fee on the Loan Amount. The Sound Point Credit Facility will be available to SpectrumCo upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, including, among others, (i) entry into security documents and other related documents, (ii) receipt of all required regulatory and FCC approvals relating to the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction, (iii) confirmation and occurrence of certain bankruptcy-related events pertaining to Ligado and (iv) certain other customary conditions to funding. The Sound Point Credit Facility requires us to pay a commitment fee equal to 2% of the Loan Amount. The Sound Point Credit Facility also includes a ticking fee equal to 0.15% of the Loan Amount payable on a monthly basis from the Credit Facility Closing Date to the date the Sound Point Credit Facility is drawn. If we terminate the Sound Point Credit Facility prior to the end of the Availability Period, we will be required to pay a termination fee, payable in cash or shares of our Class A Common Stock at our option, ranging from 1% to 5% of the Loan Amount depending on when we terminate the Sound Point Credit Facility. The Sound Point Credit Facility also requires us to pay an upfront fee equal to 3% of the Loan Amount that will become payable when we draw on the Sound Point Credit Facility (and will act as a reduction to proceeds received) and some other fees that will become payable starting from the Closing Date. Loans drawn under the Sound Point Credit Facility will bear interest, at SpectrumCos option, at either (i) Term SOFR plus an applicable margin of 8.0% per annum or (ii) an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin of 9.0% per annum. The scheduled maturity date will depend on the funding date, ranging from 48 to 60 months after funding, and any prepayments made prior to 30 months after the funding date will be subject to a premium (which decreases over time). SpectrumCos obligations under the Sound Point Credit Facility will be secured by a first-priority lien over substantially all of its assets and by a pledge by AST LLC of its equity interests in SpectrumCo. SpectrumCos obligations will not be guaranteed by us or any of our subsidiaries and will not be secured by any assets of us or any of our subsidiaries, except to the extent stated herein, and the affirmative and negative covenants apply only to SpectrumCo and any guarantor. Neither we nor AST LLC will be liable as a borrower or guarantor or otherwise for any payments owing in connection with the Sound Point Credit Facility, and the lenders recourse to the assets of AST LLC will be limited to AST LLCs equity interests both in SpectrumCo and in the newly formed subsidiary that will purchase and collect the receivables associated with the revenues generated from use of the L-band spectrum. The Sound Point Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, customary events of default (subject to grace periods, where applicable), and a minimum liquidity covenant (applicable to SpectrumCo at all times following the funding date) calculated by reference to payments owed to Ligado in connection with the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction. No assurance can be provided that the Ligado transaction will be consummated or that the related financing will be disbursed. The Ligado transaction and the disbursement of the related financing are subject to a number of conditions, including regulatory approval. In addition, Ligados ongoing bankruptcy proceedings present risks that the Ligado transaction will not be consummated. Moreover, even if the Ligado transaction is consummated, the benefits of the Ligado transaction will be subject to, among other things, integration, technology and regulatory risks. The Ligado transaction may significantly increase our indebtedness (though any debt incurred pursuant to the Sound Point Credit Facility will be non-recourse to us) and our annual required cash spend. Global S-Band Spectrum Priority Rights Acquisition On August 5, 2025, we entered into an agreement to acquire an entity that holds certain S-Band ITU priority rights to MSS frequencies in the range of 1980-2010 MHz and 2170-2200 MHz, for use in LEO. The Transaction has a total consideration of $64.5 million, to be paid in stock or cash at our election, with (i) $26.0 million to be paid at closing, (ii) $10.0 million to be paid on the second anniversary of closing, and (iii) $10.0 million to be paid on the third anniversary of closing. Additionally, we are obligated to pay $16.65 million upon the successful launch and effective in-service of a L/S satellite to be manufactured and $1.85 million upon continuous operation of such L/S satellite for a period of at least ninety (90) days. The Transaction is expected to close during the second half of 2025, subject to completion of customary closing conditions. Commitments During the six months ended June 30, 2025, the contractual minimum principal and interest payments required on all of our outstanding debt and operating leases described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 changed to reflect (i) the full conversion of the 2034 Convertible Notes into shares of our Class A Common Stock and (ii) the drawing of $25.0 million from the Trinity Capital Equipment Loan as described below. As of the date of this Quarterly Report, our contractual minimum principal and interest payments further changed to reflect: (i) the conversion of $360.0 million principal of the 2032 4.25% Convertible Notes into shares of our Class A Common Stock and (ii) issuance of $575.0 million 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes as described below. As of June 30, 2025, we had contractual commitments with third parties in the aggregate amount of approximately $384.8 million related to procurement of BB satellite components, R&D programs, operational services, and capital improvements for meeting our goal of 37 production of 40 fully integrated BB satellites and microns for 53 BB satellites. We have various rights to adjust the quantity of satellite components on the purchase orders and/or change the delivery timelines in accordance with our ongoing business plan. We also have rights to terminate these agreements in accordance with the terms of the agreement and potentially incur a termination fee in certain cases. In addition, we have launch agreements under which payments are due at scheduled milestones over the duration of the agreement, including certain milestones where payments are contingent and not due unless launch providers meet the milestones as defined in the agreement. As of June 30, 2025, the minimum commitments related to the future launches are approximately $145.0 - $175.0 million. We have contractual rights to cancel these launches or terminate the related agreements at any time by paying a termination fee, and in certain cases without incurring a termination fee, and any excess payments made to the launch providers for these launches will be refunded to us. 2024 Equity Distribution Agreement On September 5, 2024, we entered into an Equity Distribution Agreement (the 2024 Sales Agreement or 2024 ATM Equity Program) with B. Riley Securities, Inc., Barclays Capital Inc., BofA Securities, Inc., Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Roth Capital Partners, LLC, Scotia Capital (USA) Inc. and UBS Securities LLC (collectively, the agents) to sell shares of the Class A Common Stock having an aggregate sale price of up to $400.0 million through an at the market offering program under which the agents acted as sales agents. The agents were entitled to total compensation at a commission rate of up to 3.0% of the gross sales price per share sold. Under the 2024 Sales Agreement, we issued 928,441 and 2,918,407 shares of our Class A Common Stock during the three and six months ended June 30, 2025, respectively, and received proceeds of approximately $19.9 million and approximately $74.8 million, respectively, net of commissions paid to the agents and transaction costs. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2025, we paid commission of approximately $0.5 million and approximately $1.9 million to the agents with respect to such sales, respectively. Having utilized virtually the entire capacity of the 2024 ATM Equity Program, we terminated the 2024 ATM Equity Program on May 13, 2025 when we entered into the 2025 ATM Equity Program (defined below). Proceeds from the sale of the Class A Common Stock under the 2024 Sales Agreement were used for general corporate purposes. 2025 Equity Distribution Agreement On May 13, 2025, we entered into a new Equity Distribution Agreement (the 2025 Sales Agreement or 2025 ATM Equity Program) with B. Riley Securities, Inc., Barclays Capital Inc., BofA Securities, Inc., Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Roth Capital Partners, LLC, Scotia Capital (USA) Inc., UBS Securities LLC and William Blair & Company, L.L.C. (collectively, the agents) to sell shares of the Class A Common Stock having an aggregate sale price of up to $500.0 million through an at the market offering program under which the agents acted as sales agents. The agents were entitled to total compensation at a commission rate of up to 3.0% of the gross sales price per share sold. Under the 2025 Sales Agreement, we issued 11,129,048 shares of our Class A Common Stock during the three months ended June 30, 2025, and received proceeds of approximately $377.4 million, net of commissions paid to the agents and transaction costs. During the three months ended June 30, 2025, we paid commission of approximately $8.7 million to the agents with respect to such sales. In July 2025, we issued 2,476,311 shares of our Class A Common Stock and raised proceeds of approximately $111.3 million, net of commissions of approximately $2.6 million paid to the agents. Having utilized virtually the entire capacity of the 2025 ATM Equity Program, we terminated the 2025 ATM Equity Program on July 23, 2025. Proceeds from the sale of the Class A Common Stock under the 2025 Sales Agreement were and will continue to be used for general corporate purposes. Prosperity Term Loan In December 2021, concurrent with the purchase of real property and certain equipment in Midland, Texas, AST & Science Texas, LLC (AST Texas) entered into a credit agreement with Lone Star State Bank of West Texas (Lone Star), succeeded by Prosperity Bank by merger to Lone Star, providing for a $5.0 million term loan secured by certain property (the Term Loan Credit Agreement). Borrowings under the term loan bear interest at a fixed rate equal to 4.20% per annum until December 7, 2026, and from December 8, 2026 until December 8, 2028 at a fixed rate per annum equal to 4.20% plus adjustment if the index rate (as defined in the Term Loan Credit Agreement) is greater than 4.20%, subject to a maximum interest rate of 4.90% per annum. The Term Loan Credit Agreement contains certain customary events of default, and certain covenants that limit AST Texas ability to, among other things, create liens on collateral, consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of their assets; and enter into certain transactions with their affiliates. If AST Texas fails to perform its obligations under these and other covenants, or should any event of default occur, the term loan may be terminated and any outstanding borrowings, together with unpaid accrued interest, could be declared immediately due and payable, and the lender will be authorized to take possession of the collateral. Prosperity Capital Equipment Loan On August 14, 2023, we entered into a loan agreement with Lone Star, succeeded by Prosperity Bank by merger to Lone Star, as lender, providing for $15.0 million principal term loan commitment secured by certain real property fixtures and equipment in one of our Texas facilities (the Lone Star Loan Agreement). We drew the entire $15.0 million on September 19, 2023. The Lone Star Loan Agreement includes certain customary affirmative and negative covenants. As part of entering into the Trinity Capital Equipment Loan (described below), we and Prosperity Bank amended the Lone Star Loan Agreement whereby Prosperity Bank released the lien on certain real property fixtures and equipment and we pledged a $15.0 million deposit in the Lone Star Bank Money Market Fund as a security for the loan. 38 Borrowings accrue interest at the Prime Rate plus 0.75%, subject to a ceiling rate. Interest payments are due and payable on a monthly basis. Interest payments began in September 2023 and principal payments began in April 2025. Principal repayments are due in 48 equal monthly installments until January 2029, the maturity date of the loan. Trinity Capital Equipment Loan On June 27, 2025, we entered into a Master Equipment Financing Agreement (the MEFA) with Trinity Capital, Inc., as agent (the Agent) and lender, and the other lenders party (the Lenders) thereto, providing for a conditional commitment to provide financing in the total amount of up to $100.0 million. On June 27, 2025 and June 30, 2025, we, the Agent and the Lenders executed Equipment Financing Schedule No. 1 (Schedule No. 1) and No.2 (Schedule No. 2, and together with Schedule No. 1 and the MEFA, the Agreements) to the MEFA in the amount of $21.5 million (the Draw 1 Total Cost) and $3.5 million (the Draw 2 Total Cost), respectively. The remaining amount of up to $75.0 million may be funded in one or more draws on or before June 30, 2027 (the Termination Date), subject to the satisfaction of various conditions. For the five-year term of the initial draws which began on July 1, 2025, we will make monthly payments of $478,719 and $77,931, respectively, and an end of term payment in the amount of 9% of the Draw 1 Total Cost and the Draw 2 Total Cost. Additionally, if the aggregate amount of draws funded through the Termination Date is less than $50.0 million, then we will pay the Agent for the benefit of the Lenders a non-utilization fee equal to 2.50% of the difference between $50.0 million and the aggregate amount of draws funded through the Termination Date. If the amounts under Schedule No. 1 or Schedule No. 2 are voluntarily prepaid, we will pay a prepayment fee equal to 3% to 5% of the Draw 1 Total Cost or the Draw 2 Total Cost, as applicable, depending on the timing of the prepayment. Our obligations under the Agreements are secured by certain of our tangible assets. The MEFA contains customary affirmative and negative covenants. The MEFA also contains certain customary events of default that, if they occur, will be deemed to occur under all schedules. Convertible Security Investment Agreement Pursuant to the Convertible Security Investment Agreement which we entered into with certain investors, we issued subordinated convertible notes (2034 Convertible Notes) for an aggregate principal amount of $110.0 million on January 16, 2024 to AT&T, Google, and Vodafone, and for an aggregate principal amount of $35.0 million on May 23, 2024 to Verizon. The 2034 Convertible Notes bear interest at a rate of 5.50% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears on June 30 and December 30 of each year, beginning on June 30, 2024. We have the option to pay interest on the 2034 Convertible Notes in cash or in kind. We elected to pay interest on the 2034 Convertible Notes in kind on June 30, 2024, resulting in the principal amount of the 2034 Convertible Notes being increased by approximately $3.0 million. Interest will accrue on such increased principal amount in subsequent interest periods. We elected to pay interest on the 2034 Convertible Notes in cash on December 30, 2024. The net proceeds of the 2034 Convertible Notes were used for general corporate purposes. On January 22, 2025, we notified the holders of the 2034 Convertible Notes that we exercised our option to require all of such notes to be converted into shares of our Class A Common Stock. In the first quarter of 2025, the then outstanding principal amount of the 2034 Convertible Notes, which included an additional interest accrual of approximately $0.5 million, was converted into 25,818,541 shares of our Class A Common Stock and our obligation under the 2034 Convertible Notes was automatically cancelled upon such share issuance. 2032 4.25% Convertible Notes On January 27, 2025, we issued $460.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2032 (the 2032 4.25% Convertible Notes), including the exercise in full of the option granted to the initial purchasers to purchase up to $60.0 million aggregate principal amount of notes. The net proceeds of the 2032 4.25% Convertible Notes were $446.3 million after deducting the initial purchasers discounts and commissions and the estimated offering expenses payable by us. We used approximately $44.5 million of the net proceeds to pay the cost of the privately negotiated capped call transactions (the January 2025 Capped Calls). The remaining net proceeds were and are expected to continue to be used for working capital or other general corporate purposes. On July 3, 2025 and July 31, 2025, we completed the repurchase of $225.0 million and $135.0 million, respectively, of the outstanding principal amount of the 2032 4.25% Convertible Notes in separate, privately negotiated repurchase transactions with a limited number of note holders for an aggregate repurchase price of approximately $502.9 million and $346.9 million, respectively, which included accrued and unpaid interest. The repurchase was funded with the net proceeds from a registered direct offering of 9,450,268 and 5,775,635 shares of our Class A Common Stock to the same note holders participating in the note repurchase. The 2032 4.25% Convertible Notes are our senior, unsecured obligations and bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.25% per year, payable semiannually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning on September 1, 2025. The 2032 4.25% Convertible Notes will mature on March 1, 2032, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed, or converted. The 2032 4.25% Convertible Notes are convertible at the option of the holders under certain circumstances. Upon conversion, we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our Class A Common Stock or a combination of cash and shares of our Class A Common Stock, at our election. 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes 39 On July 29, 2025, we issued $575.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2032 (the 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes), including the exercise in full of the option granted to the initial purchasers to purchase up to $75.0 million aggregate principal amount of notes. The 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes are our senior, unsecured obligations and bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.375% per year, payable semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 of each year, beginning on April 15, 2026. The 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes will mature on October 15, 2032, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed, or converted. The 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes are convertible at the option of the holders under certain circumstances. Upon conversion, we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our Class A Common Stock or a combination of cash and shares of our Class A Common Stock, at our election. The net proceeds of the 2032 2.375% Convertible Notes were $560.0 million after deducting the initial purchasers discounts and commissions and the estimated offering expenses payable by us. We used approximately $54.0 million of the net proceeds to pay the cost of the privately negotiated capped call transactions (the July 2025 Capped Calls). The remaining net proceeds are expected to be used for working capital or other general corporate purposes. Commercial Prepayments On May 23, 2024, AST LLC and Verizon entered into a Memorandum of Understanding which provides, among other things, that Verizon will make a $45.0 million commercial payment for prepaid service revenue, creditable against future service revenue of AST LLC, subject to us receiving certain regulatory approvals for our SpaceMobile Service and entry into a definitive commercial agreement. Cash Flows Historical Cash Flows The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash for the six months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024 (in thousands): For the Six Months ended June 30, (unaudited) 2025 2024 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 939,400 $ 287,567 Cash used in operating activities (72,024 ) (64,274 ) Cash used in investing activities (430,622 ) (61,770 ) Cash provided by financing activities 875,627 325,743 Operating activities Cash used in operating activities was $72.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to cash used in operating activities of $64.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024. The $7.7 million increase in cash used in operating activities was attributable to an increase of $27.0 million in expenses to support operations, partially offset by a decrease of approximately $19.3 million in working capital during the six months ended June 30, 2025. Investing activities Cash used in investing activities was $430.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025, as compared to cash used in investing activities of $61.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024. The $368.8 million increase in cash used in investing activities was attributable to an increase in purchases of property and equipment, including procurement of BB satellite materials, advance launch and BB satellite materials payments, and other capital advances. Financing activities Cash provided by financing activities was $875.6 million and $325.7 million during the six months ended June 30, 2025 and June 30, 2024, respectively. The $549.9 million increase in cash provided by financing activities was attributable to a $327.1 million increase in net proceeds raised from issuance of debt, a $265.8 million increase in net proceeds raised from issuance of equity, and a $2.3 million increase in net proceeds from exercises and settlement of equity awards under our stock-based compensation plans, partially offset by a $44.5 million payment to purchase the January 2025 Capped Calls in connection with issuance of the 2032 4.25% Convertible Notes and a $0.8 million increase in principal payments of debt. Funding Requirements We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents on hand will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements, including current working capital needs, planned operating expenses and capital expenditures, for the next 12 months from the date hereof. However, our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary materially. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could expend capital resources sooner than we expect. 40 Future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: Establishing and maintaining supply and manufacturing relationships with third parties that can provide adequate, in both amount and quality, products and services to support our satellite development; Technological or manufacturing difficulties, design issues or other unforeseen matters; Negotiation of launch agreements (including launch costs), launch delays or failures, deployment failures or in-orbit satellite failures; Seeking and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals; Timing of the launch of our satellites and subsequent initiation of service in various markets, delays in which will result in increased operating expenses; Addressing any competing technological and market developments; Ability to adjust our expenditures and contractual commitments based on capital availability; Ability to operate under the covenants in our debt agreements; Attracting, hiring, and retaining qualified personnel; Applicable regulatory approval and closing of our proposed transaction with Ligado and related financing; and Ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our proposed transaction with Ligado. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial revenues to support our cost structure, we expect to finance cash needs through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities (secured or unsecured), secured or unsecured loans or other debt facilities, and credit from government or financial institutions or commercial partners. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of stockholders will be, or could be, diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise funds through commercial agreements, or other similar arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies and/or future revenue streams, or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us and/or may reduce the value of our Common Stock. Also, our ability to raise necessary financing could be impacted by recent geopolitical events, higher interest rates, inflationary economic conditions and imposition of tariffs and their effects on the market conditions. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity offerings, debt financings or commercial arrangements when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market other services even if we would otherwise prefer to develop and market these services ourselves, or potentially discontinue operations. Critical Accounting Policies Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). Preparation of the financial statements requires our management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that impact the reported amount of revenue and expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We consider an accounting judgment, estimate or assumption to be critical when (1) the estimate or assumption is complex in nature or requires a high degree of judgment and (2) the use of different judgments, estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. For a discussion of our critical accounting policies, see Critical Accounting Policies in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements On June 13, 2025, we announced the Term Sheet among various parties including us, Ligado, Viasat, Inc. and Inmarsat. Pursuant to the Term Sheet, as long as the financial sponsors of Ligado provide a backstop commitment to Ligado that is acceptable us, in support of a full refund of payments by Ligado in the event applicable regulatory approvals are not obtained and the closing does not occur, we have agreed that, with respect to the $550.0 million otherwise owed to Ligado in connection with the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction, we will pay $420.0 million to Ligado for the benefit of Inmarsat on October 31, 2025, $100.0 million to Ligado for the benefit of Inmarsat on March 31, 2026 and $15.0 million to Ligado for the benefit of Inmarsat on receipt of specified regulatory approvals and the closing of the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction. The remaining $15.0 million would be payable to Ligado at the closing. We intend to seek institutional financing based on this refund obligation (supported by the backstop commitment) to facilitate these obligations prior to the non-recourse senior-secured delayed-draw loan facility becoming available, although there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. As of the date of this Quarterly Report, the Term Sheet constitutes an off-balance sheet commitment, as the related payment obligations are subject to financing contingencies and, therefore, are not recognized in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. On June 23, 2025, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction contemplated in the Strategic Collaboration Term Sheet. The closing of the Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction is still subject to receipt of satisfactory regulatory approvals required for the proposed use of the spectrum, as well as other closing conditions. AST LLCs obligation to make the Crown Castle Annual Payment and SpectrumCos obligation to make the L-band Annual Payment each began on June 23, 2025. Refer to discussion under Spectrum 41 Usage Rights Transaction and Related Financing in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section and Note 13 Spectrum Usage Rights Transaction and Related Financing for further details. 42