Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to AST SpaceMobile, Inc. (formerly known as New Providence Acquisition Corp.). References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to New Providence Acquisition Management LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements for the purposes of federal securities laws that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of our Form S-1 Registration Statement filed with the SEC on June 25, 2021 (File No. 333-257425) as well as the Risk Factors contained in Part II, Item 1A of our Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 16, 2021. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. On April 6, 2021 (the Closing Date), the Company completed a business combination (Business Combination) pursuant to that certain Equity Purchase Agreement, by and among AST & Science LLC (AST LLC), New Providence Acquisition Corp. (NPA), the existing equityholders of AST LLC (Existing Equityholders), Sponsor, and Mr. Abel Avellan. As contemplated by the Equity Purchase Agreement: (a) NPA was appointed as the managing member of AST LLC and AST LLC became a subsidiary of NPA; (b) NPA changed its name to AST SpaceMobile, Inc.; (c) immediately prior to the closing of the Business Combination, all then-outstanding shares of Class B common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of NPA (NPA Class B Common Stock) held by Sponsor (the Sponsor Stock) converted into shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of NPA (NPA Class A Common Stock) immediately prior to the Business Combination; (d) each share of NPA Class A Common Stock, including those converted as described in (c) above, was converted into one share of Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of the Company (Class A Common Stock), and each warrant of NPA (an NPA Warrant) was converted into one warrant of the Company (a Warrant); (e) AST LLC restructured its capitalization, appointed the Company as its managing member and issued to the Company 51,729,704 units of ownership interest in AST LLC (the AST LLC Common Units), which entitle the holder to the distributions, allocations, and other rights under the Fifth Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Operating Agreement of AST LLC (the A&R Operating Agreement), in exchange for which AST LLC received approximately $226.4 million remaining in NPAs trust account following (i) the $4.8 million payment of deferred underwriting commissions (ii) $0.2 million of redemptions made in connection with NPAs special meeting of stockholders relating to the transactions contemplated by the Equity Purchase Agreement (the Special Meeting) and NPAs annual meeting of stockholders to approve, among other things, a charter amendment to extend the date by which it had to complete an initial business combination and (iii) the repayment of a $0.6 million related party loan between the Sponsor and NPA; (f) AST LLC issued to the Company warrants to purchase up to 17,600,000 AST LLC Common Units; (g) certain PIPE Investors purchased 23,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock at a purchase price of $10 per share; (h) the Company issued 51,636,922 shares of Class B common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of the Company, which carries one vote per share but no economic rights (Class B Common Stock) to the AST LLC Existing Equityholders (other than Mr. Abel Avellan); and (i) the Company issued 78,163,078 shares of Class C common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of the Company, which carries ten votes per share but no economic rights (Class C Common Stock) to Mr. Abel Avellan (the transactions referred to in clauses (a) through (i), collectively, the Business Combination). The Company received net proceeds of $416.9 million. In connection with the closing of the Business Combination, the Company incurred an additional $30.3 million of contingent transaction costs, which were paid at closing. 30 Overview We are an innovative satellite designer and manufacturer. We operate from six locations that include our corporate headquarters and 85,000 square foot satellite assembly, integrating and testing facility in Midland, Texas, and engineering and development locations in Maryland, Spain, the United Kingdom, and Israel. In addition, our 51% owned and controlled subsidiary, NanoAvionika UAB (Nano), is headquartered in Lithuania. We and our global partners are building what we believe is the first and only space-based cellular broadband network designed to be accessible by standard smartphones. Our SpaceMobile Service is expected to provide cost-effective, high-speed mobile broadband services with global coverage to all end-users, regardless of where they live or work, without the need to purchase special equipment. We believe the SpaceMobile Service would be the first global direct mobile broadband network using low Earth orbit (LEO) satellites to provide connectivity to any standard, unmodified, off-the-shelf mobile phone or 2G/3G/4G LTE/5G and IoT-enabled device. We intend to partner with mobile network operators (MNOs) to offer the SpaceMobile Service to the MNOs end-user customers. Our vision is that users will not need to subscribe to the SpaceMobile Service directly with us, nor will they need to purchase any new or additional equipment. Instead, users will be able to access the SpaceMobile Service when prompted on their mobile device that they are no longer within range of the land-based facilities of the MNO operator or will be able to purchase a plan directly with their existing mobile provider. The SpaceMobile Service is planned to be provided through a network of 168 high-powered, large phased-array satellites in LEO. The worldwide mobile traffic will be directed by the SpaceMobile Service to a terrestrial gateway and then to the in-country MNOs core cellular network connected to the internet. Our intent is that users will be able to connect to the SpaceMobile Service as if they were using a local cell tower, with less communication delay effects than existing geostationary satellite communication systems experience. On April 1, 2019, we launched our first test satellite, BlueWalker 1 (BW1), which was used to validate our satellite to cellular architecture and was capable of managing communications delays from LEO orbit and the effects of doppler in a satellite to ground cellular environment using the 4G-LTE protocol. We are currently assembling, integrating, and testing the satellite componentry required for our BlueWalker 3 (BW3) test satellite. As of September 30, 2021, we have incurred approximately $56.7 million of capitalized costs (including non-recurring engineering) relating to the BW3 test satellite and expect to incur an additional $10.0 to $12.0 million (including non-recurring engineering) to bring this project to completion. The BW3 test satellite will be using SpaceX as a launch services provider. The current available launch window with SpaceX runs from March 2022 through April 2022. However, the exact timing of such launch is contingent on a number of factors, including satisfactory and timely completion of construction and testing of BW3 test satellite. We have the option to select an alternate launch window if we deliver a rebooking notice to SpaceX by December 1, 2021 and pay a rebooking fee. While we have not yet determined if we will provide such rebooking notice and select an alternate mission and launch window, at this time we believe it is likely that we may elect to do so to provide additional time for BW3 testing and final launch preparation. If we exercise the option to rebook, we plan to target a BW3 launch within months of the original launch window; however, any alternate launch window would be subject to mutual agreement and coordination with SpaceX. We are also in the development and design process of our first constellation phase of 20 satellites (the BB1 Satellites). We are currently planning our first commercial satellite launches for the BB1 Satellites to begin during the last quarter of 2022 and continue during the first two or potentially three quarters of 2023. This first phase of satellites is expected to provide satellite coverage in the 49 Equatorial countries, representing a total population of approximately 1.6 billion people, with 20 satellites. We currently plan to achieve full global mobile coverage after the completion of the launches required to deploy an additional 90 satellites which we are targeting to begin launching during the last quarter of 2023 and continue during 2024, assuming the first phase is successfully completed in the anticipated time frame. Assuming we are able to substantially achieve full global mobile coverage, we currently are planning to begin the launches required to deploy an additional 58 satellites with multiple input multiple output (MIMO) capabilities beginning in the fourth quarter of 2024 through the third quarter of 2025. W hile this represents our current planning, our launch plans and timelines are subject to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, manufacturing timelines and our ability to successfully contract with launch providers that can accommodate the technical specifications of our BB1 Satellites, proposed orbits and resulting satellite coverage, and proposed launch timing and costs and other factors which could impact the determination of launch providers. 31 Revenue is currently generated from Nano, which consists of satellite development and manufacturing, procuring and arranging launch services, as well as in-orbit operations. Additionally, on a smaller scale, Nano offers hosted payload services, sale of individual satellite parts and subsystems, and software licenses. We do not currently generate any revenue other than through Nano. We are an early stage and emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with early stage and emerging growth companies. Please refer to the Risk Factors section of our Form S-1 Registration Statement filed with the SEC on June 25, 2021 (File No. 333-257425) as well as the Risk Factors contained in Part II, Item 1A of our Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 16, 2021 for a description of such risks. Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic With the on-going global spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have implemented business continuity plans designed to address and mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on its business. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, research and development efforts and the value of our equity, will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence at this time, such as the ultimate duration of the pandemic, travel restrictions, quarantines, social distancing and business closure requirements, and the effectiveness of actions taken globally to contain and treat the disease. The global economic disruptions and the other risks and uncertainties associated with the pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, to the extent the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and results of operations, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks and uncertainties specific to the industry. To date, the pandemic has not had a material impact to our technology development efforts or results of our operations. However, given the daily evolution of the COVID-19 outbreak and the global responses to curb its spread, we are not able to estimate the future effects of the COVID-19 outbreak on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. Components of Results of Operations Revenues To date, we have not generated significant revenues and do not expect to begin generating revenues from our SpaceMobile Service until 2023. Our 51% owned subsidiary, Nano, generates revenue from the development and manufacture of satellite technology, and ancillary sales and services in Europe and the United States. Nano also sells individual satellite parts, subsystems, and software to be configured to customers satellites, and enters into rideshare type agreements whereby Nano provides hosted payload services using customers payloads integrated with Nano-owned Satellite Buses for scheduled launches. Given the above information, any revenue recognition presented herein exclusively relates to Nanos commercially available goods and services. Cost of Sales Cost of sales includes the purchase price of various products used and services performed to execute Nanos revenue contracts. Cost of sales also includes operational costs to fulfil Nano customer orders, including costs for Nano employees and overhead. Engineering Services Engineering costs are charged to expense as incurred. Engineering costs consist primarily of the expenses associated with our ongoing engineering efforts to establish feasibility of our satellites, as well as the cost of internal staff (such as engineers and consultants) to support these efforts. Currently, major engineering activities include the manufacturing and assembly of the satellite components required for the BW3 test satellite at the Companys Midland, Texas facility and the development and design of the first commercial satellite launches for a first constellation phase of 20 satellites (the BB1 Satellites). General and Administrative Costs General and administrative costs include the costs of insurance, personnel, investor relations, and outside professional services, including accounting and legal fees necessary to comply with the rules of the SEC and regulations applicable to a public company. 32 Research and Development Costs Research and development (R&D) costs consist principally of non-recurring engineering developments in which we typically engage third-party vendors. Currently, major R&D activities include engaging with vendors to help develop the electronic componentry and software to be used in the first commercial satellite launch phase of the BB1 Satellites. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense includes amounts related to property and equipment as well as definite lived intangible assets. Once BW3 is completed and successfully launched, we expect a significant portion of our depreciation expense to relate to the depreciation of this asset, given its assigned useful life is two years. Changes in Fair Value of Warrant Liabilities Public and private warrants issued by the Company are accounted for as liability-classified instruments at their initial fair value on the date of issuance. They are remeasured on each balance sheet date and changes in the estimated fair value are recognized as an unrealized gain or loss in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Interest Income, Net Interest income consists primarily of interest earned on cash and cash equivalents held by us in interest bearing demand deposit accounts, net of any interest expense. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income or expense consists of miscellaneous non-operating items, including foreign exchange gains or losses. Income Tax Expense As a result of the Business Combination, the Company, organized as a C corporation, owns an equity interest in AST LLC in what is commonly referred to as an Up-C structure. AST LLC is treated a partnership for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. Also, we have a controlling ownership interest in Nano, a Lithuanian subsidiary, that is subject to foreign income taxes and is also treated as a partnership for U.S. federal and state and local taxes. Accordingly, for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes, all income, losses, and other tax attributes pass through to the members income tax returns, and no U.S. federal and state and local provision for income taxes has been recorded for these entities in the consolidated financial statements. Certain foreign wholly-owned entities are taxed as corporations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, and accruals for such taxes are included in the consolidated financial statements. We recorded a net deferred tax asset of $71.7 m illion for the difference between the book value and tax basis of our investment in AST LLC at the time of the Business Combination. We have assessed the realizability of our deferred tax assets and in that analysis have considered the relevant positive and negative evidence available to determine whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized. As a result, we have recorded a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset resulting from the Business Combination. Noncontrolling Interest Noncontrolling interest represents the equity interest in AST LLC held by Existing Equityholders other than the Company. As of September 30, 2021, the Existing Equityholders equity ownership percentage in AST LLC was approximately 71.5%. We attribute a portion of net income or loss generated at AST LLC to the noncontrolling interest. 33 Results of Operations Three Months Ended September 30, 2021 Compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 The following table sets forth a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the periods indicated below and the changes between the periods. Three Months Ended September 30, (unaudited) 2021 2020 $ Change (dollars in thousands) Revenues $ 2,450 $ 2,090 $ 360 Cost of sales (exclusive of items shown separately below) 2,103 833 1,270 Gross profit 347 1,257 (910 ) Operating expenses: Engineering services 8,026 3,502 4,524 General and administrative costs 9,331 2,825 6,506 Research and development costs 4,888 17 4,871 Depreciation and amortization 867 112 755 Total operating expenses 23,112 6,456 16,656 Other income (expense): Changes in fair value of warrant liabilities 39,401 - 39,401 Interest income, net 4 14 (10 ) Other income (expense), net 180 4 176 Total other income (expense), net 39,585 18 39,567 Income (loss) before income tax expense 16,820 (5,181 ) 22,001 Income tax expense 16 - 16 Net income (loss) before allocation to noncontrolling interest 16,804 (5,181 ) 21,985 Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest 12,689 350 12,339 Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 4,115 $ (5,531 ) $ 9,646 Revenues Total revenues increased by $0.4 million to $2.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase in revenue was primarily due to an increase in sales to new third-party customers, as well as the achievement of milestones on contracts with existing third-party customers of Nano. Cost of Sales Total cost of sales increased by $1.3 million to $2.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2020. The significant increase in cost of sales, as compared to the increase in revenue for the comparable period as described above, was primarily due to work being performed on new and existing revenue contracts with third-party customers of Nano in which milestones have not yet been reached during the three months ended September 30, 2021. Engineering Services Total engineering services increased by $4.5 million to $8.0 m illion for the three months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was prima rily due to a $3.9 million increase in headcount of engineers and a $0.2 million increase in consultant costs. The costs related to recurrent engineers and consultants that are not solely associated with the development of BW3 and BB1 Satellites are expensed as engineering services. The remaining $0.4 million increase relates to other operating expenses, such as $0.3 milli on in facility expenses. We expect engineering expenses to continue to increase over the upcoming years as the SpaceMobile Service is developed. 34 General and Administrative Costs Total general and administrative costs increased by $6.5 million to $9.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was primarily due to a $2.8 million increase in employee and consultant-related expenses, such as salaries and recruiting fees due to the increase in headcount compared to the prior period, a $1.3 million increase in insurance costs, a $1.1 million increase in office-related expenses including software licenses and computer maintenance , a $0.9 million increase in professional service fees due to the increase in legal and accounting services compared to the prior period, and a $0.4 million increase in other miscellaneous expenses, such as travel expenses and other costs. Research and Development Costs Total research and development costs were $4.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to near zero in the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was primarily due to the development efforts relating to the BB1 Satellites which began to increase substantially during the second quarter of 2021 and is expected to continue to increase in future periods. Depreciation and Amortization Total depreciation and amortizatio n expense increased by $0.8 million to $0.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was primarily due to the purchase of additional fixed assets and leasehold improvements between periods. Changes in Fair Value of Warrant Liabilities Total changes in fair value of warrant liabilities was $39.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to zero in the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was due to the unrealized gain on the change in the fair value of the warrant liabilities of $39.4 million during the three months ended September 30, 2021. We did not have a similar change in the fair value of the warrant liabilities in the comparative period as the warrant liabilities were recorded as a result of the Business Combination in the second quarter of 2021. Other Income (Expense), net Total other income, net was $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to near zero in the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was primarily due to non-recurring income from a third-party contract executed during the three months ended September 30, 2021. We did not have similar income in the comparative period. Noncontrolling Interest Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest was $12.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to $0.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020. This increase in net income correlates with the increase in net income generated at AST LLC given the noncontrolling interest represents a portion of such net income. 35 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2021 Compared to the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 The following table sets forth a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the interim periods indicated below and the changes between the periods. Nine Months Ended September 30, (unaudited) 2021 2020 $ Change (dollars in thousands) Revenues $ 6,185 $ 3,265 $ 2,920 Cost of sales (exclusive of items shown separately below) 4,122 2,634 1,488 Gross profit 2,063 631 1,432 Operating expenses: Engineering services 18,757 8,426 10,331 General and administrative costs 24,031 7,638 16,393 Research and development costs 15,491 60 15,431 Depreciation and amortization 2,049 417 1,632 Total operating expenses 60,328 16,541 43,787 Other income (expense): Changes in fair value of warrant liabilities (2,276 ) - (2,276 ) Interest income, net 12 58 (46 ) Other income (expense), net 144 (2 ) 146 Total other income (expense), net (2,120 ) 56 (2,176 ) Income (loss) before income tax expense (60,385 ) (15,854 ) (44,531 ) Income tax expense 73 - 73 Net income (loss) before allocation to noncontrolling interest (60,458 ) (15,854 ) (44,604 ) Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest (33,015 ) (327 ) (32,688 ) Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ (27,443 ) $ (15,527 ) $ (11,916 ) Revenues Total revenues increased by $2.9 million to $6.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase in revenue was primarily due to an increase in sales to new third-party customers, as well as the achievement of milestones on contracts with existing third-party customers of Nano. Cost of Sales Total cost of sales increased by $1.5 million to $4.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to increased costs recognized under new and existing revenue contracts to third-party customers of Nano during the nine months ended September 30, 2021. Engineering Services Total engineering services increas ed by $10.3 million to $18.8 m illion for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was primarily due to a $8.1 million increase in headcount of engineers and a $1.4 million increase in consultant costs. The costs related to recurrent engineers and consultants that are not solely associated with the development of BW3 and BB1 Satellites are expensed as engineering services. The remaining $0.8 mi llion increase relates to other operating expenses, such as consumables and components and facility expenses. We expect engineering expenses to continue to increase over the upcoming years as the SpaceMobile Service is developed. General and Administrative Costs Total general and administrative costs increased by $16.4 million to $24.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was primarily due to a $6.9 million increase in employee and consultant-related expenses, such as salaries and recruiting fees due to the increase in headcount compared to the prior period, a $2.9 million increase in professional service fees due to the increase in legal and accounting services compared to the prior period, a $2.8 million increase in office-related expenses including software licenses and computer maintenance , a $2.7 million increase in insurance costs, and a $1.1 million increase in other miscellaneous expenses. 36 Research and Development Costs Total research and development costs increased b y $15.4 m illion to $15.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was primarily due to third-party development efforts relating to the BB1 Satellites to be used in the SpaceMobile constellation. Depreciation and Amortization Total depreciation and amortization expense increased b y $1.6 million to $2.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was primarily due to the purchase of additional fixed assets and leasehold improvements during the period. Changes in Fair Value of Warrant Liabilities Total changes in fair value of warrant liabilities was $2.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to zero in the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The decrease was due to the unrealized loss on the change in the fair value of the warrant liabilities of $2.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2021. We did not have a similar change in the fair value of the warrant liabilities in the comparative period as the warrant liabilities were recorded as a result of the Business Combination in the second quarter of 2021. Other Income (Expense), net Total other income, net was $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to near zero in the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The increase was primarily due to non-recurring income from a third-party contract executed during the nine months ended September 30, 2021. We did not have similar income in the comparative period. Noncontrolling Interest Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest was $33.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to $0.3 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020. This increase in net loss correlates with the increase in net loss generated at AST LLC given the noncontrolling interest represents a portion of such net loss. Liquidity and Capital Resources We require capital to fund our operating expenses and to make capital expenditures. We expect our capital requirements to increase as our operations expand. As a result of the Business Combination, which occurred on April 6, 2021, NPA contributed net proceeds of approximately $416.9 million. As of September 30, 2021 we ha d $360.4 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand. We believe our cash on hand, inclusive of the cash obtained from the Business Combination, is sufficient to meet our current working capital and capital expenditure requirements for a period of at least eighteen months from the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The design, manufacture, integration, testing, assembly and launch of satellites and related components and related ground infrastructure is a capital-intensive venture. We estimate the capital asset investments required for the manufacture and launch of the first phase of the BB1 Satellites to be between approximately $260.0 million and $300.0 million, which is expected to be incurred through the remainder of 2021, during 2022 and during 2023. Assuming we are able to execute on our current planned timeframe, we estimate the capital asset investments required for the manufacture and launch of all phases of the planned constellation, including the 168 satellites we currently anticipate are required to reach substantial global mobile coverage with MIMO capabilities to be between approximately $1.7 billion and $1.9 billion, expected to be incurred through the remainder of 2021 and through the third quarter of 2025. Through at least the end of 2023, and potentially into 2024 our operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) are expected to increase quarterly resulting from increases in expenses relating to 1) hiring the required employees to complete the manufacture, assembly, integration and testing of the BW3 Satellite during 2021 and BB1 Satellites during 2022 and 2023, 2) additional general and administrative costs relating to the operation of a growing public company (legal and accounting fees, D&O and other insurance, etc.) and the related increase in the number of corporate employees, 3) expenses relating to the negotiation and procurement activities relating to the design and procurement required for the BB1 Satellites and efforts related to the required regulatory approvals, and 4) third-party research and development efforts relating to the development and design elements of the BB1 Satellites. We believe we have sufficient capital to fund planned operations and capital investments for at least eighteen months from the date hereof. The capital asset investments required to complete the SpaceMobile constellation and related operating costs are preliminary estimates. As we complete the design, development, componentry and launch procurement, assembly, integration and testing of the BB1 Satellites, our estimates may be subject to change and actual costs may be materially greater than our current estimates. We will need to raise additional capital to continue developing and launching satellites required to complete the SpaceMobile Service. We expect to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity related or debt securities, or through obtaining credit from government or financial institutions or commercial partners. This capital may be necessary to fund ongoing operations, continue research, development and design efforts, improve infrastructure, and launch satellites. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms if required, or at all. If we cannot raise additional funds when needed, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects could be materially adversely affected. 37 Cash Flows Historical Cash Flows The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020: Nine Months Ended September 30, (unaudited) 2021 2020 (dollars in thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 360,390 $ 63,074 Cash used in operating activities $ (58,612 ) $ (13,061 ) Cash used in investing activities (40,494 ) (20,717 ) Cash provided by financing activities 416,878 70,338 Operating activities Cash used in operating activities wa s $58.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021, as compared to cash used in operating activities of $13.1 m illion for the same period in 2020. The $45.5 million increase in cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 was primarily attributable to the $44.6 million higher net loss as a result of our Business Combination and related expansion of our operations and satellite technology development efforts, net of non-cash cost items and changes in operating working capital. Non-cash cost items increased $5.7 million period-over-period, primarily driven by a $2.3 million increase in fair value of the warrant liability and a $1.5 million increase in stock-based compensation, and a decrease in operating working capital of $6.6 m illion period-over-period. Investing activities Cash used in investing activities was $40.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2021, as compared to cash used in investing activities of $20.7 million for the same period in 2020. Th e $19.8 million increase in cash used in investing activities for the nine months September 30, 2021 was primarily attributable to a $12.2 million increase in BW3 satellite construction costs, as well as a $7.6 mil lion increase in purchases of property and equipment including satellite antennas, test equipment, and leasehold improvements. Financing activities Cash provided by financing activities was $416.9 million for the nine months September 30, 2021, as compared to cash provided by financing activities of $70.3 million for the same period in 2020. The $346.6 mi llion increase in cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2021 was primarily attributable to the $416.9 m illion of net proceeds from the Business Combination in the second quarter of 2021, offset by the $72.1 million of net proceeds received from the issuance of AST LLC Series B Preferred Units in the 2020 period. Funding Requirements We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents along with the net proceeds received from the Business Combination with NPA will be sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements for at least 18 months from the date hereof. However, our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary materially. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could expend capital resources sooner than we expect. Future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: Seeking and obtaining market access approvals; Establishing and maintaining supply and manufacturing relationships with third parties that can provide adequate, in both amount and quality, products and services to support our satellite development; Addressing any competing technological and market developments; Technological or manufacturing difficulties, design issues or other unforeseen matters; Negotiation of launch agreements, launch delays or failures or deployment failures or in-orbit satellite failures; and Attracting, hiring, and retaining qualified personnel. 38 Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial revenues to support our cost structure, we expect to finance cash needs through a combination of equity offerings, debt financings, commercial and other similar arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of stockholders will be, or could be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise funds through commercial agreements, or other similar arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies and/or future revenue streams, or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us and/or may reduce the value of our common stock. Also, our ability to raise necessary financing could be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on the market conditions. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market other services even if we would otherwise prefer to develop and market these services ourselves or potentially discontinue operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2021. Contractual Obligations Refer to Note 6 of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report for a summary of our commitments as of September 30, 2021. Critical Accounting Policies Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). Preparation of the financial statements requires our management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that impact the reported amount of revenue and expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We consider an accounting judgment, estimate or assumption to be critical when (1) the estimate or assumption is complex in nature or requires a high degree of judgment and (2) the use of different judgments, estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 of the Companys unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report. Our critical accounting policies are described below. BlueWalker3 Capitalization We account for research and development costs related to the BW3 test satellite based on guidance in ASC 730 Research and Development (ASC 730). In reaching this conclusion, we have determined there is an alternative future use for BW3 as defined in this guidance. Under ASC 730, certain costs related to the construction of the BW3 test satellite are capitalized and reported as construction-in-progress (CIP) on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We capitalize only those expenditures and ancillary costs that are directly attributable to the construction phase and necessarily incurred to place BW3 into its intended location and use. To date, capitalized expenditures include the costs for satellite parts and other non-recurring costs directly associated with BW3 developments. The other non-recurring costs primarily include third-party engineers and consultants who are hired solely for the assembly of BW3 and are responsible for the value and progression of the project. The costs for internal, recurrent engineers and consultants are expensed as engineering services and not capitalized to the CIP account on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, as these employees are not directly associated with the development of BW3. Costs incurred that are not directly attributable to the construction phase or necessarily incurred to place BW3 into its intended location and use are recognized as an expense as incurred. 39 Warrant Liabilities We account for warrants as either equity-classified or liability-classified instruments based on an assessment of the warrants specific terms and applicable authoritative guidance in the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 480 - Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480) and ASC 815 - Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). Our assessment considers whether the warrants are freestanding financial instruments pursuant to ASC 480, whether they meet the definition of a liability pursuant to ASC 480, and whether the warrants meet all of the requirements for equity classification under ASC 815, including whether the warrants are indexed to our own common stock and whether the warrant holders could potentially require net cash settlement in a circumstance outside of our control, among other conditions for equity classification. This assessment, which requires the use of professional judgment, is conducted at the time of warrant issuance and as of each subsequent quarterly period-end date while the warrants are outstanding. For issued or modified warrants that meet all of the criteria for equity classification, they are recorded as a component of additional paid-in capital at the time of issuance. For issued or modified warrants that do not meet all the criteria for equity classification, they are recorded at their initial fair value on the date of issuance and subject to remeasurement each balance sheet date with changes in the estimated fair value of the warrants to be recognized as a non-cash gain or loss in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets We assess goodwill for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter, on a reporting unit basis, or more frequently, when events and circumstances occur indicating that the recorded goodwill may be impaired. For the year ended December 31, 2020, our goodwill impairment process included applying a quantitative impairment analysis where the fair value of the reporting unit was compared to its carrying value (including goodwill). We engaged an independent third-party valuation specialist to assist in the determination of the fair value of the reporting unit based upon inputs and assumptions provided by management. The fair value of the reporting unit was based upon an equal weighting of the income and market approaches, utilizing estimated cash flows and a terminal value, discounted at a rate of return that reflects the relative risk of the cash flows, as well as valuation multiples derived from comparable publicly traded companies that are applied to operating performance of the reporting unit. Significant judgments inherent in these analyses include estimating the amount and timing of future cash flows and the selection of appropriate discount rates and long-term growth rate assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for the reporting unit and could result in an impairment charge, which could be material to our financial position and results of operations. Based on the results of the quantitative impairment analysis, it was determined that there has been no impairment of goodwill related to the reporting unit as of December 31, 2020. We assess the impairment of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important in the determination of an impairment include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner that we use the acquired asset and significant negative industry or economic trends. 40