Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Except as otherwise noted or where the context requires otherwise, references in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to AST SpaceMobile, Inc. and references to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report and with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, including our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes contained therein. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to dollars and $ in this Quarterly Report are to, and all monetary amounts in this Quarterly Report are presented in, U.S. dollars. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements for the purposes of federal securities laws that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek, plan, predict, potential, and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements, please refer to Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are building the first and only global Cellular Broadband network in space to be accessible directly by everyday smartphones (2G/4G-LTE/5G devices) for commercial use, and other applications for government use utilizing our extensive intellectual property (IP) and patent portfolio. Our SpaceMobile Service is being designed to provide cost-effective, high-speed Cellular Broadband services to end-users who are out of terrestrial cellular coverage using existing mobile devices. The SpaceMobile Service currently is planned to be provided by a constellation of high-powered, large phased-array satellites in Low Earth Orbit (LEO) using low band and middle band spectrum controlled by Mobile Network Operators (MNOs). We are headquartered in Texas where we operate 185,000 square feet satellite assembly, integrating and testing (AIT) facilities. Our IP portfolio is diverse, containing numerous and various innovations of the direct-to-cell satellite ecosystem from space to Earth. Our IP portfolio consists of 36 patent families worldwide. As of June 30, 2024, we had more than 3,400 patent and patent pending claims worldwide, of which approximately 1,240 have been officially granted or allowed. We intend to work with MNOs to offer the SpaceMobile Service to the MNOs end-user customers. Our vision is that users will not need to subscribe to the SpaceMobile Service directly through us, nor will they need to purchase any new or additional equipment. Instead, users will be able to access the SpaceMobile Service when prompted on their mobile device that they are no longer within range of the land-based facilities of the MNO operator or will be able to purchase a plan directly with their existing mobile provider. We intend to seek to use a revenue-sharing business model for SpaceMobile Service in our agreements with MNOs. The SpaceMobile Service is expected to be highly attractive to MNOs as it will enable them to improve and differentiate their service offering without significant incremental capital investments. The SpaceMobile Service is expected to enable MNOs to augment and extend their coverage without building towers or other land-based infrastructure, including where it is not cost-justified or is difficult due to geographical challenges. As a result of the incremental coverage created by the planned SpaceMobile Service, we believe that MNOs will have the opportunity to increase subscribers average revenue per user (ARPU). On April 1, 2019, we launched our first test satellite, BW1, which was used to validate our satellite to cellular architecture and was capable of managing communications delays from LEO and the effects of doppler in a satellite to ground cellular environment using the 4G-LTE protocol. 22 We launched our BlueWalker 3 (BW3) test satellite on September 10, 2022, and announced the completion of the deployment of the communication phased array antenna of the BW3 test satellite in orbit on November 14, 2022. On April 25, 2023, we announced that we had successfully completed two-way voice calls directly to standard unmodified smartphones using the BW3 test satellite. On June 21, 2023, we announced that we had achieved repeated successful 4G download speeds of above 10 megabits per second (Mbps) to standard unmodified smartphones using the BW3 test satellite. On September 19, 2023, we announced that we had achieved repeated successful two-way voice calls directly to standard unmodified smartphones using 5G connectivity and successful download speeds of approximately 14 Mbps utilizing 5 megahertz (Mhz) of low band spectrum via the BW3 test satellite. Since then, we have achieved successful download speeds above 21 Mbps, spectral efficiency of approximately 3 bits per hertz, and have also successfully completed initial in-orbit and ground testing for non-communication government applications. We intend to continue testing capabilities of the BW3 test satellite, including further testing with cellular service providers and the government. In July 2024, we completed the final assembly, integration and testing of five of our first generation commercial BB satellites (Block 1 BB satellites). The Block 1 BB satellites are of similar size and weight to the BW3 test satellite, include our own designed array solar panels and battery systems, and are expected to have ten times higher throughput than the BW3 test satellite. The five Block 1 BB satellites are currently at the launch site awaiting an orbital launch in a 7-day launch window in September 2024. The exact timing of the launch is contingent on a number of factors, including satisfactory and timely completion of integration of the satellites with the launch vehicle, confirmation of the launch slot timing by the launch provider, weather conditions, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The SpaceMobile Service has not been launched and therefore has not yet generated any revenue. Following the launch and deployment of five Block 1 BB satellites, we currently plan to initiate a limited, noncontinuous SpaceMobile Service in targeted geographical areas, including in the United States, and seek to generate revenue from such service. Prior to initiating SpaceMobile Service in each jurisdiction, we will need to obtain regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where we would provide such service and would need to enter into commercial agreements with MNOs relating to the offering of such service in each jurisdiction. We have received an initial license from the United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to launch and operate V, S and UHF frequencies to support gateway, feeder link and telemetry, tracking, and control operations for the first five Block 1 BB satellites in the United States. We have entered into a space-based wireless connectivity agreement with AT&T Services, Inc. (AT&T Services) to provide SpaceMobile Service to AT&T Services end users for use within the continental United States (excluding Alaska) and Hawaii. We also plan to enter into similar commercial agreements with Verizon in the United States. Before we begin providing full commercial SpaceMobile Service in the United States, we will need to obtain additional approvals from the FCC. We are expanding our efforts on ground infrastructure development for commercial readiness and integrating our SpaceMobile Service into the MNOs infrastructure to enable us to initiate commercial services. Beginning in the first quarter of 2024, we have recognized revenue from completion of performance obligations under an agreement with a prime contractor for the U.S. Government and expect to continue to recognize revenue throughout 2024 as and when we complete the remaining performance obligations under the agreement. In 2024, we expect to begin generating revenue from the resale of gateway equipment and associated services to MNOs and other third parties. We believe initiation of limited, noncontinuous SpaceMobile Service, as well as completing the milestones under the agreement with a prime contractor for the U.S. Government, will help to demonstrate the advantages of our satellite-based Cellular Broadband service in the market. These market activities will commence while we continue the development and testing of the next generation of commercial BB satellites. Our next generation of commercial BB satellites (Block 2 BB satellites) are expected to derive greater performance through the introduction of our own AST5000 Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) chip, which we believe will enable materially greater throughput capacity of up to 40 MHz per beam to support 120 Mbps peak data rates and up to 10,000 MHz of processing bandwidth per Block 2 BB satellite, require less power and offer a lower overall unit cost. As of the date of this report, we have completed the design and tape-out of our ASIC chip. Until the qualification and assembly of our ASIC chip is complete, we expect to continue to manufacture and launch Block 2 BB satellites that are based on a FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Arrays) chip. The Block 2 BB satellites are expected to be approximately 2,400 square feet in size, almost 3.5 times bigger than the Block 1 BB satellites, and will have the largest phased array ever deployed in a LEO for commercial use exceeding the phased array of the BW3 test satellite and the Block 1 BB satellites. We believe the larger aperture array is expected to provide greater spectrum reuse, enhanced signal strength and increased capacity, thereby reducing the necessary number of satellites to achieve service coverage as compared to smaller apertures. We continue to make progress towards the completion of the design and development of our Block 2 BB satellites. We believe we will benefit from the skills, technological expertise, and manufacturing know-how derived from the assembly and testing of our Block 1 BB satellite in the development and assembly of our Block 2 BB satellites. We are vertically integrated for manufacturing of satellite components and subsystems to reduce our dependency on suppliers, ensure timely supply of satellite components and subsystems to meet our launch timeline, and lower the overall cost of BB satellites. We own or license the IP and control the manufacturing process, either internally or with contract manufacturers, for approximately 95% of the sub-systems planned to be used in our Block 2 BB satellites. We began the design and development of the Block 2 BB satellites prior to the design and development of Block 1 BB 23 satellites. We have secured agreements and placed orders for procurement of components and subsystems required for manufacturing of Block 2 BB satellites. We have commenced manufacturing the components and subsystems for Block 2 BB satellites. We have entered into an agreement with a launch service provider to launch the first Block 2 BB satellite. While the agreement has a preliminary launch window in the first quarter of 2025, the agreement allows us to alter the launch window, at our option and at no additional cost, subject to the launch vehicle providers launch schedule availability. The exact timing of the launch has not been determined and is contingent on a number of factors, including satisfactory and timely completion of the design, assembly and testing of the Block 2 BB satellite, regulatory approvals, availability of launch windows by the launch providers, logistics, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We are developing a phased satellite deployment plan and corresponding commercial launch plan of the SpaceMobile Service based on targeted geographical areas to provide the SpaceMobile Service to the most commercially attractive MNO markets. This prioritization of coverage is designed to minimize the capital required to initiate and operate commercial service that generates cash flows from operating activities sooner. We expect that such a successful commercial service would enable us to attract additional capital to continue to assemble and launch additional BB satellites to expand our capacity and geographic coverage area, although there can be no assurance that such capital would be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We plan to achieve service in the selected, targeted geographical areas with the launch and operation of 25 BB satellites and achieve substantial service in all targeted geographical areas to meet our long term business goals with the launch and operation of approximately 95 BB satellites. We anticipate launching and deploying additional satellites beyond the initial 95 satellites in order to enhance coverage and system capacity in response to incremental market demand. Our current plan is subject to numerous uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including timely supply of materials and components, satisfactory and timely completion of design, assembly and testing of the satellites, availability of launch vehicles aligned with our timeline, availability of launch windows by the launch providers, proposed orbits and resulting satellite coverage, launch costs, ability to enter into agreements with MNOs, regulatory approvals, our ability to raise capital, and other factors. We may adopt a strategy for commercial launch of the SpaceMobile Service, including the nature and type of services offered and the geographic areas where we may launch such services, that may differ materially from our current plan. We are an early stage and emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with early stage and emerging growth companies. Please refer to Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Recent Developments Verizon Investment and Memorandum of Understanding On May 23, 2024, we and Verizon Communications, Inc. (Verizon) entered into a Convertible Note and Memorandum of Understanding for an investment and commercial prepayment commitment totaling $100.0 million (the Verizon Investment). In connection with the Verizon Investment, Verizon purchased Convertible Notes (as described below) for an aggregate principal amount of $35.0 million, made an initial $20.0 million commercial payment that is creditable against future service revenue of AST & Science LLC (AST LLC), and will make a second $45.0 million commercial payment when we receive certain regulatory approvals for our SpaceMobile Service and enter into a definitive commercial agreement with Verizon. The second commercial payment will be creditable against future service revenue of AST LLC. AT&T Commercial Agreement On May 10, 2024, AST LLC and AT&T Services entered into a space-based wireless connectivity agreement (the AT&T Commercial Agreement) for AST LLC to provide, and AT&T Services to purchase access to and utilize our network and satellite services to provide service offerings to AT&T Services end users enabled by the satellite services for use within the continental United States (excluding Alaska) and Hawaii. AT&T Services will pay to AST LLC a percentage of the gross monthly revenue AT&T Services bills to its end users for the services enabled by the satellite services. In addition, AT&T Services will make a non-refundable commercial payment to AST LLC after the launch and successful initial operation of the five Block 1 BB satellites, which will be credited against AST LLCs future share of gross monthly revenue. The AT&T Commercial Agreement expires on December 31, 2030, subject to auto-renewal for successive two-year periods unless either party terminates in accordance with the terms of the AT&T Commercial Agreement. 24 Impact of Global Macroeconomic Conditions and Geopolitical Conflicts We continue to closely monitor the impact of macroeconomic conditions, including heightened inflation, changes to fiscal and monetary policies, higher interest rates, volatility in the capital markets, supply chain challenges, and geopolitical conflicts on all aspects of our business across geographies, including how it has and may continue to impact our operations, workforce, suppliers, and our ability to raise additional capital to fund operating and capital expenditures. Changes in the prices of satellite materials due to inflation, supply chain challenges, and other macroeconomic factors, as well as changes in the launch costs, may affect our capital costs estimates to build and launch the satellite constellation and adversely affect our financial condition. The extent of impact of these factors on our business will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence at this time. To date, these factors have not had a material impact to our technology development efforts or results of our operations. However, if macroeconomic conditions deteriorate or there are unforeseen developments, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We operate from multiple locations that include our corporate headquarters and 185,000 square feet AIT facilities in Texas where the final AIT is performed, and engineering and development centers elsewhere in the United States, India, Scotland, Spain and Israel. Our operations in Israel constitute approximately 2% of our total assets as of June 30, 2024 and approximately 9% and 10%, respectively, of total operating expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024. To date, our operations in Israel have not been materially impacted by the geopolitical conflict in the Middle East. We currently do not expect potential interruptions to our operations in Israel to have a material impact on the Company. Factors Affecting Comparability of Our Future Results of Operations to Our Historical Results of Operations Our historical financial performance has been, and we expect our financial performance in the future to be, driven by our ability to execute on our strategy. We believe that our future results of operations could differ materially from the historical results of operations as we launch the five Block 1 BB satellites and initiate the limited, noncontinuous SpaceMobile Service in certain targeted geographical areas, fulfill our obligations under an agreement with a prime contractor of a U.S. Government contract, complete the tape-out and qualification of our ASIC chip, complete the development of the Block 2 BB satellites, increase our capacity and scale to manufacture BB satellites, launch the first Block 2 BB satellite, and enter into commercial arrangements with MNOs. Components of Results of Operations Revenues To date, we have not generated any revenues from our SpaceMobile Service and do not expect to generate revenue until we launch the SpaceMobile Service. All revenues recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 were generated from completion of performance obligations under an agreement with a prime contractor for the U.S. Government. We expect to continue to recognize revenue under this agreement throughout 2024 as and when we complete the remaining performance obligations under the agreement. We also expect to generate revenue from the resale of gateway equipment and associated services to the MNOs and third parties as and when we complete our performance obligations under these contracts with the customers. Engineering Services Costs Engineering services costs are charged to expense as incurred. Engineering services costs consist primarily of the cost of employees and consultants involved in the design and development of the BB satellites and fulfillment of performance obligations under contracts with the customers, managing the network and satellite operations centers, indirect costs related to the assembly, integration and testing of the BB satellites, license cost, and general expenses related to AIT facilities and engineering development centers. General and Administrative Costs General and administrative costs include the costs of insurance, cost of non-engineering personnel and personnel related expenses, software licensing and subscriptions, office and facilities expenses, investor relations, and professional services, including public relations, accounting and legal fees. Research and Development Costs R&D costs are charged to expense as incurred. R&D costs consist principally of development activities in which we typically engage third-party vendors and are largely driven by the achievement of milestones that trigger payments. It also includes costs of materials and supplies consumed in the R&D activities such as development of prototype components and subsystems, and production of engineering 25 models to support assembly, integration and testing of the BB satellites. R&D costs are expected to fluctuate quarter over quarter depending on achievement of milestones. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense includes depreciation expense related to property and equipment including the BW3 test satellite, as well as definite lived intangible assets. We began depreciating the BW3 test satellite as of April 25, 2023 over its expected remaining useful life of approximately 16 months. We expect the BW3 test satellite to be fully depreciated by the end of August 2024. Gain (Loss) on Remeasurement of Warrant Liabilities Public Warrants and Private Placement Warrants issued by us are accounted for as liability-classified instruments at their initial fair value on the date of issuance. They are remeasured on each balance sheet date and changes in the estimated fair value are recognized as an unrealized gain or loss in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Interest (Expense) Income, Net Interest (expense) income, net consists of interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs associated with our debt arrangements, including convertible notes, net of interest earned on cash and cash equivalents held in interest bearing demand deposit accounts. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily consists of non-operating expense and income, including foreign exchange gains or losses. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit AST LLC is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. Accordingly, all income, losses, and other tax attributes pass through to the members income tax returns, and no U.S. federal and state and local provision for income taxes has been recorded for AST LLC in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Certain foreign wholly-owned entities are taxed as corporations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, and accruals for such taxes are included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Noncontrolling Interest Noncontrolling interest primarily represents the equity interest in AST LLC held by members other than us. As of June 30, 2024, noncontrolling interest in AST LLC was approximately 44.2%. We attribute a portion of net income or loss generated at AST LLC to the noncontrolling interest based on their ownership interests. 26 Results of Operations Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 Compared to the Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 We report our results of operations under one operating segment. The following table sets forth a summary of our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands), and the discussion that follows compares the three months ended June 30, 2024 to the three months ended June 30, 2023. For the Three Months Ended June 30, (unaudited) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Revenues $ 900 $ - $ 900 $ 100 % Operating expenses: Engineering services costs 21,202 22,813 (1,611 ) (7 ) General and administrative costs 17,839 10,221 7,618 75 Research and development costs 4,460 10,921 (6,461 ) (59 ) Depreciation and amortization 20,392 14,115 6,277 44 Total operating expenses 63,893 58,070 5,823 10 Other income (expense): (Loss) gain on remeasurement of warrant liabilities (66,140 ) 6,475 (72,615 ) (1,121 ) Interest (expense) income, net (2,238 ) 1,724 (3,962 ) (230 ) Other income (expense), net 252 (507 ) 759 150 Total other income (expense), net (68,126 ) 7,692 (75,818 ) (986 ) Loss before income tax (expense) benefit (131,119 ) (50,378 ) (80,741 ) (160 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (231 ) 789 (1,020 ) (129 ) Net loss before allocation to noncontrolling interest (131,350 ) (49,589 ) (81,761 ) (165 ) Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (58,800 ) (31,181 ) (27,619 ) (89 ) Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (72,550 ) $ (18,408 ) $ (54,142 ) (294 ) % Revenues Revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2024 were attributable to completion of performance obligations under an agreement with a prime contractor for a U.S. Government contract, which was entered into in the first quarter of 2024. We had no such agreements in the three months ended June 30, 2023. Engineering Services Costs Total engineering services costs decreased by $1.6 million, or 7%, to $21.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease of $3.1 million in payroll and employee related costs, and partially offset by an increase of $0.8 million in AIT facilities and engineering development centers costs, including managing mission operations and ground infrastructure, and an increase of $0.7 million in travel expenses. General and Administrative Costs Total general and administrative costs increased by $7.6 million, or 75%, to $17.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by a $6.7 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and other employee related costs, a $0.4 million increase in professional services fees, a $0.3 million increase in travel expenses, and a $0.3 million increase in office and facilities expenses. Research and Development Costs Total R&D costs decreased by $6.5 million, or 59%, to $4.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 as compared to three months ended June 30, 2023. The decrease in R&D costs were driven by completion of design and development of certain sub systems for the Block 2 BB satellites, completion of certain milestones related to the development of ground infrastructure programs for commercial readiness, completion of design and development for Block 1 BB satellites, and completion of the design phase of our ASIC chip. 27 Depreciation and Amortization Total depreciation and amortization expense increased by $6.3 million, or 44%, to $20.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2023. The increase was primarily due to the commencement of the BW3 test satellite depreciation from April 25, 2023. (Loss) gain on Remeasurement of Warrant Liabilities The increase in fair value of warrant liabilities resulted in a loss of $66.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 largely due to a significant increase in our share price as compared to a gain of $6.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. Interest (Expense) Income, Net Interest expense, net was $2.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024, as compared to interest income, net of $1.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. The net change of $3.9 million was primarily attributed to an increase of $4.8 million in interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs incurred in connection with our debt arrangements, partially offset by an $0.8 million increase in interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents held in interest bearing demand deposit accounts. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income, net was $0.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024, as compared to other expense, net of $0.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. The net change of $0.8 million was primarily due to a $2.6 million increase in other non-operating income and a $0.3 million decrease in foreign exchange loss, partially offset by a $2.2 million increase in loss on disposal of fixed assets. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit The provision for income taxes was $(0.2) million and $0.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The consolidated effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 was (0.18)% and 1.57%, respectively. Refer to Note 10: Income Taxes in the accompanying notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Loss attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest was $58.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 as compared to $31.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2023. This increase in net loss correlates with the increase in net loss generated at AST LLC given the noncontrolling interest represents a portion of such net loss. 28 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 Compared to the Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 We report our results of operations under one operating segment. The following table sets forth a summary of our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands), and the discussion that follows compares the six months ended June 30, 2024 to the six months ended June 30, 2023. For the Six Months Ended June 30, (unaudited) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Revenues $ 1,400 $ - $ 1,400 100 % Operating expenses: Engineering services costs 40,719 39,296 1,423 4 General and administrative costs 30,126 20,078 10,048 50 Research and development costs 8,711 27,302 (18,591 ) (68 ) Depreciation and amortization 40,336 15,848 24,488 155 Total operating expenses 119,892 102,524 17,368 17 Other income (expense): (Loss) gain on remeasurement of warrant liabilities (47,926 ) 13,973 (61,899 ) (443 ) Interest (expense) income, net (4,460 ) 3,816 (8,276 ) (217 ) Other income (expense), net 250 (10,743 ) 10,993 102 Total other income (expense), net (52,136 ) 7,046 (59,182 ) (840 ) Loss before income tax (expense) benefit (170,628 ) (95,478 ) (75,150 ) (79 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (526 ) 673 (1,199 ) (178 ) Net loss before allocation to noncontrolling interest (171,154 ) (94,805 ) (76,349 ) (81 ) Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (78,874 ) (60,079 ) (18,795 ) (31 ) Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (92,280 ) $ (34,726 ) $ (57,554 ) (166 ) % Revenues Revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2024 were attributable to completion of performance obligations under an agreement with a prime contractor for a U.S. Government contract, which was entered into in the first quarter of 2024. We had no such agreements in the six months ended June 30, 2023. Engineering Services Costs Total engineering services costs increased by $1.4 million, or 4%, to $40.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2023. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $3.3 million in AIT facilities and engineering development centers costs including managing mission operations and ground infrastructure and an increase of $1.1 million in travel expenses, partially offset by a $3.0 million decrease in payroll and employee related costs. General and Administrative Costs Total general and administrative costs increased by $10.0 million, or 50%, to $30.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by a $9.3 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and other employee related costs, a $0.6 million increase in travel expenses, and a $0.4 million increase in office and facilities expenses, partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in professional services fees. Research and Development Costs Total R&D costs decreased by $18.6 million, or 68%, to $8.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2023. The decrease in R&D costs were driven by completion of design and development of certain sub systems for the Block 2 BB satellites, completion of certain milestones related to the development of ground infrastructure programs for commercial readiness, completion of design and development for Block 1 BB satellites, and completion of the design phase of our ASIC chip. 29 Depreciation and Amortization Total depreciation and amortization expense increased by $24.5 million, or 155%, to $40.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2023. The increase was primarily due to the commencement of the BW3 test satellite depreciation from April 25, 2023. (Loss) Gain on Remeasurement of Warrant Liabilities The increase in fair value of warrant liabilities resulted in a loss of $47.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 largely due to a significant increase in our share price as compared to a gain of $14.0 million during the six months ended June 30, 2023. Interest (Expense) Income, Net Interest expense, net was $4.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024, as compared to the interest income, net of $3.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023. The net change of $8.3 million was primarily attributed to an increase of $9.2 million in interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs incurred in connection with our debt arrangements, partially offset by an $0.9 million increase in interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents held in interest bearing demand deposit accounts. Other Income (Expense), net Other income, net was $0.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 as compared to other expense, net of $10.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023. The net change of $11.0 million was primarily due to a nonrecurring $10.0 million payment due to a related party recognized in the first quarter of 2023, a $2.6 million increase in other non-operating income, and a $0.4 million decrease in foreign exchange loss, partially offset by a $2.2 million increase in loss on disposal of fixed assets. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit The income tax expense was $0.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 as compared to the income tax benefit of $0.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023. The consolidated effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 was (0.31%) and 0.70%, respectively. Refer to Note 10: Income Taxes in the accompanying notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest was $78.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 as compared to $60.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023. This increase in net loss correlates with the increase in net loss generated at AST LLC given the noncontrolling interest represents a portion of such net loss. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our current sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents on hand. As of June 30, 2024, we had $287.6 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand, which included $2.5 million of restricted cash, which reflects proceeds from the issuance of the Convertible Notes (as described below), the sale of shares of our Class A Common Stock under the ATM Equity Program (as described below) and the January 2024 Common Stock Offering (as described below). We believe our cash and cash equivalents on hand will be sufficient to meet our current working capital needs, planned operating expenses and capital expenditures for a period of 12 months from the date of this Quarterly Report. The design, assembly, integration, testing and launch of satellites and related ground infrastructure is capital intensive. We currently estimate the capital expenditure, primarily direct materials and launch costs, for the assembly, integration, testing and launch of the five Block 1 BB satellites to not materially exceed $115.0 million. We expect to leverage our experience of Block 1 manufacturing to improve and optimize the manufacturing costs for our Block 2 satellites. We have fully paid the Block 1 estimated cost as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We believe we need to launch and operate 25 BB satellites (five Block 1 BB satellites and 20 Block 2 BB satellites) in order to provide coverage to the most commercially attractive MNO markets. In addition to the cash and cash equivalents we had on hand as of June 30, 2024, we currently estimate we will need to raise approximately $275.0 million to $325.0 million to fund operating expenses and capital expenditures necessary to design, assemble and launch 20 Block 2 BB satellites and operate a constellation of 25 BB satellites. 30 We evaluate our market, product and coverage plans based upon the attractiveness of certain markets, our technology, regulatory concerns and our access to capital and other resources. We believe we can develop satellite configurations which target delivering service to certain attractive markets without the necessity of building a constellation which covers the entire globe. This modularity of our satellite configuration enables us to alter the timing and size of our satellite roll out and provides us flexibility to dynamically change our market plans and capital requirements. As a result, we believe we have the ability to accelerate or slow down our business plan depending upon the availability of capital to support our strategies. We plan to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities (secured or unsecured), secured or unsecured loans or other debt facilities, and credit from government or financial institutions or commercial partners. We also intend to seek to draw the remaining available credit under the Senior Secured Credit Facility (as described below). Our ability to access the capital markets during this period of volatility may require us to modify our current expectations. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot raise additional funds when needed in the future, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Commitments Pursuant to the Convertible Security Investment Agreement (as described below) which we entered into with certain investors, we issued subordinated convertible notes (the Convertible Notes) for an aggregate principal amount of $110.0 million on January 16, 2024 to AT&T Venture Investments, LLC (AT&T), Google LLC (Google) and Vodafone Ventures Limited (Vodafone), and for an aggregate principal amount of $35.0 million on May 23, 2024 to Verizon Communications, Inc. (Verizon). The Convertible Notes bear interest at a rate of 5.50% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears on June 30 and December 30 of each year, beginning on June 30, 2024. The AT&T, Google and Vodafone Convertible Notes have a 10-year term and the Verizon Convertible Notes have a 9 years and 9 months term unless earlier converted into Class A Common Stock at the option of the holder or us in accordance with the terms of the Convertible Security Investment Agreement. During the six months ended June 30, 2024, there were no material changes in the contractual minimum principal and interest payments required on all of our outstanding debt, other than above, and operating leases described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. As of June 30, 2024, we had contractual commitments with third parties in the aggregate amount of $100.5 million related to the procurement of BB satellite components, R&D programs, capital improvements, and future launch payments for Block 2 BB satellites. We expect these commitments will continue to increase as we make progress to assemble, integrate and test Block 2 BB satellites, and enter into launch agreements for the launch of Block 2 BB satellites. Equity Distribution Agreement On September 8, 2022, we entered into an Equity Distribution Agreement (the Sales Agreement or ATM Equity Program) with Evercore Group L.L.C. and B. Riley Securities, Inc. (collectively, the agents) to sell shares of our Class A Common Stock having an aggregate sales price of up to $150.0 million through an at the market offering program under which the agents acted as sales agents. The agents were entitled to total compensation at a commission rate of up to 3.0% of the gross sales price per share sold. As of the date of this Quarterly Report, we have sold shares of our Class A Common Stock up to the authorized amount under the Sales Agreement; accordingly, the Sales Agreement has terminated pursuant to its terms. Proceeds from the sale of our Class A Common Stock under the Sales Agreement were and will continue to be used for general corporate purposes. Term Loan In December 2021, concurrent with the purchase of real property and equipment in Midland, Texas, our wholly-owned subsidiary, AST & Science Texas, LLC (AST Texas), entered into a credit agreement with Lone Star State Bank of West Texas (the Term Loan Credit Agreement) providing for a $5.0 million term loan secured by the property. Borrowings under the term loan bear interest at a fixed rate equal to 4.20% per annum until December 7, 2026, and from December 8, 2026 until December 8, 2028 at a fixed rate per annum equal to 4.20% plus adjustment if the index rate as defined in the Term Loan Credit Agreement is greater than 4.20%, subject to a maximum interest rate of 4.90% per annum. Refer to Note 5: Long-Term Debt in the accompanying notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for further information. The Term Loan Credit Agreement contains certain customary events of default, and certain covenants that limit AST Texas ability to, among other things, create liens on collateral, consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of their assets, and enter into certain transactions with their affiliates. If AST Texas fails to perform its obligations under these and other covenants, or should any event of default occur, the term loan may be terminated and any outstanding borrowings, together with unpaid accrued interest, could be declared immediately due and payable, and the lender will be authorized to take possession of the collateral. 31 Senior Secured Credit Facility On August 14, 2023, we entered into a senior secured term loan credit agreement with ACP Post Oak Credit II LLC as administrative agent and collateral agent and Atlas Credit Partners, LLC (Atlas) as lender, providing for a principal loan commitment of up to $100.0 million (the Atlas Credit Agreement), of which $48.5 million was borrowed upon closing. In addition, a two-year collateral protection insurance policy was issued to the lenders and a cash premium based on a single digit percentage of the amount drawn was paid to the insurance provider thereunder (the Cash Premium). An additional amount of $51.5 million may be borrowed only to the extent we raise additional capital through equity raises and receive additional insurance coverage such that we have insurance coverage equal to at least the amount of borrowings under the credit facility. The initial borrowings of $48.5 million accrue interest at a fixed rate equal to three-month secured overnight financing rate (SOFR) as of the closing date plus 9.625% per annum equal to 14.75% (the Atlas Fixed Rate), payable on the last business day of each fiscal quarter. The borrowing amounts are payable at maturity on August 14, 2026 and are subject to mandatory prepayments upon the occurrence of certain specified events. Borrowings are secured by substantially all of our assets other than the assets of certain excluded subsidiaries. The Atlas Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, requires us to maintain certain levels of liquidity, limits our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments (including cash dividends on common stock), and sell or otherwise dispose of our assets, among other restrictions. Upon closing, we received net proceeds of $37.2 million, net of debt issuance costs of $9.5 million and deposit of $1.8 million into an interest reserve escrow account. Debt issuance costs of $9.5 million consist of agent fees, offering expenses, and two years of cash premium coverage. The net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes as permitted under the Atlas Credit Agreement. Capital Equipment Loan On August 14, 2023, we entered into a loan agreement with Lone Star as lender, providing for a $15.0 million principal term loan commitment secured by certain real property fixtures and equipment in one of our Texas facilities (the Lone Star Loan Agreement). Borrowings accrue interest at the Prime Rate plus 0.75%, subject to a ceiling rate. Interest payments are due and payable on a monthly basis. Interest payments began in September 2023 and principal payments will begin in April 2025. Principal repayments are thereafter due in 48 equal monthly installments until January 2029, the maturity date of the loan. In connection with the Lone Star Loan Agreement, we deposited a cash balance of $15.0 million in the Lone Star Bank Money Market Fund. This cash balance will be converted to restricted cash if we fail to maintain a consolidated balance of cash and cash equivalents of at least $75.0 million. This restricted cash will be used to offset against the term loan obligations if we fail to maintain a consolidated balance of cash and cash equivalents of at least $50.0 million. In addition, the Lone Star Loan Agreement includes certain customary affirmative and negative covenants. We drew the entire $15.0 million facility on September 19, 2023 and incurred $0.1 million of transaction costs. The net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. Convertible Security Investment Agreement Pursuant to the Convertible Security Investment Agreement which we entered into with certain investors, we issued Convertible Notes for an aggregate principal amount of $110.0 million on January 16, 2024 to AT&T, Google, and Vodafone, and for an aggregate principal amount of $35.0 million on May 23, 2024 to Verizon. The Convertible Notes bear interest at a rate of 5.50% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears on June 30 and December 30 of each year, beginning on June 30, 2024. We have the option to pay interest on the Convertible Notes in cash or in kind. We elected to pay interest on the Convertible Notes in kind on June 30, 2024, resulting in the principal amount of the Convertible Notes being increased by approximately $3.0 million. Interest will accrue on such increased principal amount in subsequent interest periods. The AT&T, Google and Vodafone Convertible Notes have a 10-year term unless earlier converted and the Verizon Convertible Notes have a 9 years and 9 months term unless earlier converted. The net proceeds of the Convertible Notes were and will continue to be used for general corporate purposes. The Holders of the Convertible Notes may convert the Convertible Notes (subject to certain exceptions) at an initial conversion rate of 173.9130 shares of Class A Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $5.75 per share of Class A Common Stock). The Holders may convert their Convertible Notes at their option on the Conversion Date, which is on or after January 16, 2025. On or after the Conversion Date, we may require the Holders to convert the Convertible Notes (subject to certain exceptions), at an initial conversion rate of 173.9130 shares of Class A Common Stock per 32 $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $5.75 per share of Class A Common Stock) at our option, if the VWAP of the Class A Common Stock has been at least 130% of the conversion price then in effect for 30 consecutive trading days, on the immediately succeeding trading day after the last trading day of such 30 day period. The Convertible Notes may be accelerated upon the occurrence of certain events of default and fundamental change. January 2024 Common Stock Offering On January 23, 2024, we issued 32,258,064 shares of Class A Common Stock in a public offering and received proceeds of $93.6 million, net of underwriting commissions of $6.0 million and transaction costs of $0.4 million. We provided a 30-day option to the underwriting agent to purchase up to an additional 4,838,709 shares of Class A Common Stock (the Option Shares) from us on the same terms and conditions. On January 25, 2024, the Option Shares were exercised in full. The offering of the Option Shares closed on January 29, 2024 for proceeds of $14.1 million, net of underwriting commissions of $0.9 million. Proceeds from the sale of our Class A common stock under the January 2024 Common Stock Offering were used for general corporate purposes. Commercial Prepayments On May 23, 2024, in connection with the Verizon Investment, Cellco Partnership, a Delaware general partnership doing business as Verizon Wireless, on behalf of itself and its controlled and/or managed affiliates (Verizon Wireless), entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with AST LLC and us (the MOU). The MOU provides, among other things, that Verizon Wireless will make (i) an initial $20.0 million commercial payment for prepaid service revenue, creditable against future service revenue of AST LLC and (ii) a second $45.0 million commercial payment for prepaid service revenue, creditable against future service revenue of AST LLC, subject to us receiving certain regulatory approvals for our SpaceMobile Service and entry into a definitive commercial agreement. We have received the initial $20.0 million prepayment from Verizon and recognized it as contract liabilities. Refer to Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for further information. On May 10, 2024, pursuant to the terms of the letter agreement dated January 16, 2024 by and among us, AST LLC and AT&T Services, AST LLC and AT&T Services entered into the AT&T Commercial Agreement for AST LLC to provide, and AT&T Services to purchase access to and utilize our network and satellite services to provide service offerings to AT&T Services end users enabled by the satellite services for use within the continental United States (excluding Alaska) and Hawaii. AT&T Services will pay to AST LLC a percentage of the gross monthly revenue AT&T Services bills to its end users for the services enabled by the satellite services. In addition, AT&T Services will make a non-refundable commercial payment of $20.0 million to AST LLC after the launch and successful initial operation of the five Block 1 BB satellites, which will be credited against AST LLCs future share of gross monthly revenue. The AT&T Commercial Agreement expires on December 31, 2030, subject to auto-renewal for successive two-year periods unless either party terminates in accordance with the terms of the AT&T Commercial Agreement. Cash Flows Historical Cash Flows The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash for the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands) (unaudited): For the Six Months ended June 30, (unaudited) 2024 2023 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 287,567 $ 191,471 Cash used in operating activities $ (64,274 ) $ (87,989 ) Cash used in investing activities (61,770 ) (22,972 ) Cash provided by financing activities 325,743 63,627 Operating activities Cash used in operating activities was $64.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024, as compared to cash used in operating activities of $88.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023. The $23.7 million decrease was attributable to a decrease of $22.5 million in expenses to support operations during the six months ended June 30, 2024 and a decrease of $1.2 million in working capital. 33 Investing activities Cash used in investing activities was $61.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024, as compared to cash used in investing activities of $23.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023. The $38.8 million increase in cash used in investing activities was attributable to an increase in purchases of property and equipment, including procurement of BB satellite materials. Financing activities Cash provided by financing activities was $325.7 million during the six months ended June 30, 2024, as compared to cash provided by financing activities of $63.6 million during the six months ended June 30, 2023. The $262.1 million increase in cash provided by financing activities was attributable to an additional $139.8 million in net proceeds from the issuance of Convertible Notes, a $51.2 million increase in net proceeds from the sale of Class A Common Stock from public offerings, a $72.3 million increase in net proceeds from the sale of Class A Common Stock under the ATM Equity Program, offset by a $1.2 million increase in taxes paid for stock-based compensation awards. Impact of inflation While inflation may impact our capital and operating expenditures, we believe the effects of inflation, if any, on our results of operations and financial condition have not been significant. However, there can be no assurance that our results of operations and financial condition will not be materially impacted by inflation in the future, including by heightened levels of inflation experienced globally as a consequence of the rapidly changing market and economic conditions. Funding Requirements We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents on hand will be sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements for the next 12 months from the date hereof. However, our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary materially. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could expend capital resources sooner than we expect. Future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: Establishing and maintaining supply and manufacturing relationships with third parties that can provide adequate, in both amount and quality, products and services to support our satellite development; Technological or manufacturing difficulties, design issues or other unforeseen matters; Negotiation of launch agreements (including launch costs), launch delays or failures, deployment failures, or in-orbit satellite failures; Seeking and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals; Timing of the launch of our satellites and subsequent initiation of service in various markets, delays in which will result in increased operating expenses; Addressing any competing technological and market developments; Ability to adjust our expenditures and contractual commitments based on capital availability; Ability to operate under the covenants in our debt agreements; and Attracting, hiring, and retaining qualified personnel. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial revenues to support our cost structure, we expect to finance cash needs through a combination of equity offerings, debt financings, commercial and other similar arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of stockholders will be, or could be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise funds through commercial agreements, or other similar arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies and/or future revenue streams, or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us and/or may reduce the value of our common stock. Also, our ability to raise necessary financing could be impacted by recent geopolitical events, higher interest rates and inflationary economic conditions and their effects on the market conditions. If we are unable to raise additional funds 34 through equity offerings, debt financings or commercial arrangements when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market other services even if we would otherwise prefer to develop and market these services ourselves or potentially discontinue operations. Critical Accounting Policies Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). Preparation of the financial statements requires our management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that impact the reported amount of revenue and expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We consider an accounting judgment, estimate or assumption to be critical when (1) the estimate or assumption is complex in nature or requires a high degree of judgment and (2) the use of different judgments, estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. For a discussion of our critical accounting policies, see Critical Accounting Policies in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of June 30, 2024. 35