Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Thefollowingdiscussionandanalysisofourfinancialconditionand resultsof operationsshouldbe read in conjunctionwiththe unaudited condensed consolidatedfinancialstatementsandrelatednotesincluded elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2024 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 14, 2025. As discussed in the section titled Special Note about Forward-Look Statements, this discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 14, 2025. Overview Our missionisto innovate,design,and deliversemiconductor-basedconnectivitysolutionsthat are purpose-builtto unleashthefullpotentialof cloudand AI infrastructure. Buildingonyearsofexperiencewithasingularfocusonaddressingconnectivitychallengesin data-centric systems,wehavedevelopedanddeployedourIntelligentConnectivityPlatformbuiltfromtheground up forcloudand AI infrastructure.Our IntelligentConnectivityPlatform iscomprised of semiconductor-based,high-speed,mixed-signalconnectivityproductsthatintegratea matrixof microcontrollersand sensors, and COSMOS, our software suite, which is embedded in our connectivity products and integrated into our customers systems. OurIntelligent Connectivity Platform providesour customers with the abilityto deploy and operate high-performancecloudandAIinfrastructureatscale,addressinganincreasinglydiversesetofrequirements. We provideour connectivityproductsin variousformfactors,includingIntegrated Circuits (ICs), boards,and modules. Our patented software-definedplatformapproach deliverscriticalconnectivityperformance,enables flexibilityandcustomization,and supportsobservabilityand predictiveanalytics.This approach is designed to efficiently addressthedata,network,andmemorybottlenecks,scalability,and otheruniqueinfrastructurerequirementsof our hyperscalerand systemOEM customers. Basedontrustedrelationshipswiththeleadinghyperscalersandcollaborationwith datacenterinfrastructure suppliers,ourplatformisdesignedtomeet ourcustomersuniquecloudscalerequirements.OurCOSMOS softwaresuiteisfoundationaltoourIntelligent ConnectivityPlatformand isdesignedto enableour customersto seamlesslyconfigure,manage,monitor, optimize,troubleshoot,and customizefunctionsin our IC, board,and moduleproducts. Today,our connectivitysolutionsareattheheartof majorAI platformsdeployedworldwidefeaturingboth commerciallyavailableGraphic Processing Units (GPUs) andproprietaryAIaccelerators. We offer our customersfour productfamiliesacrossmultipleformfactorsincludingICs, boards,and modules.Ourproducts,which includeAries PCIe/CXL SmartDSP Retimers, Aries PCIe/CXL Smart Cable Modules, TaurusEthernetSmartCableModules, LeoCXL Memory ConnectivityControllers, and Scorpio Smart Fabric Switches,arebuiltupon industrystandardconnectivityprotocolssuch as Peripheral Component Interconnect Express (PCIe), Ethernet,and Computer Express Link (CXL), to addressthegrowing demandforpurpose-builtconnectivitysolutionsthat solve criticaldata,network,and memorybottlenecksinherentin cloudand AI infrastructure. Sinceourinception,wehavecreatedandcommercializedfirst-to-marketPCIe,Ethernet,andCXL products. We have becomea trustedpartnerand a provensupplierto our hyperscaler andsystemOEMcustomers.We have experiencedstronggrowth sincethecommerciallaunchofAriesin2020.Ourrevenuegrewfrom$34.8millionin2021, $79.9millionin2022, and $115.8 millionin2023 to $396.3 million in 2024. Our revenue was $159.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025,drivenbyasizableincreaseindemandforourproducts. Wehave madesignificantinvestmentsin thedesignand developmentof new productsand platform enhancements. Although we have recently recorded quarterly net income, wehavenotyetachievedprofitabilityonanannualbasis. 15 Table of Contents Summary of Financial Highlights Our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 increased by 144% compared to the threemonths ended March 31, 2024, primarily due to an increase in overall unit shipments driven by higher demand for our Aries and Taurus products. Gross margin decreased by 250 basis points (bps) to 74.9%forthe three months ended March 31, 2025 from 77.4% for the threemonths ended March 31, 2024, primarily driven by product mix. Operating expenses decreased by $25.4 million, or 19%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the threemonths ended March 31, 2024, primarily driven by a decrease of $54.8 million in non-cash stock-based compensation expense, which resulted primarily from the recognition of time-based vesting of RSUs following the satisfaction of the liquidity event vesting condition in connection with our IPO in the prior period. The decrease was partially offset by an increase of $18.1 million in headcount related expenses as a result of a 72% increase in headcount, and a $6.8 million increase in research and development expenses related to software licenses and hardware designs. KeyComponents of Resultsof Operations Revenue The vast majority of our revenue consists of product sales with a small portion, if any, derived from engineering services. Product sales consist primarily of shipments of our Intelligent Connectivity Platform solutions. Engineering services revenue consists of engineering fees associated with customer-defined engineering services. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue includes cost of product sales and cost of engineering services. Cost of product sales includes the cost of materials, such as wafers processed by third-party foundries, costs associated with packaging, assembly, shipping, depreciation of equipment associated with manufacturing, cost of logistics and quality assurance, warranty cost, amortization of capitalized production masks, personnel-related costs including salaries, stock-based compensation, employee benefits, write-down of inventories, and allocation of general corporate expenses. Whileamortizationofcapitalizedproductionmaskshashistorically notbeenmaterial,we expectto incur significant amortizationcostsin thefutureas we continueto increasethenumberof additionalproducts. Gross Profitand Gross Margin Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenue. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenue. Our gross profit has been, and may in the future be, primarily influenced by several factors, including sales volumes, pricing of our products and services, changes in product costs, contract manufacturing supplier pricing, personnel costs, shipping and logistics costs, and inventory write-downs. OperatingExpenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel-related costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, stock-based compensation expense, employee benefits, and bonuses. Operating expenses also include software license and cloud hosting services costs, prototype costs, pre-production engineering mask costs, professional services fees, insurance costs, and overhead costs for facilities and other shared expenses, including depreciation expense. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of costs incurred in performing research and development activities and include salaries, stock-based compensation expense, employee benefits, bonuses, pre-production engineering mask costs, software license and cloud hosting services costs, prototype costs, packaging and test costs, professional services fees, and allocated shared expenses. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Pre-production engineering mask costs are expensed. We capitalize the costs of production masks with alternative future use and amortize these costs on a straight-line basis over the useful lives of the production masks. To determine if a production mask has alternative future use or benefits, we evaluate risks associated with developing new technologies and 16 Table of Contents capabilities, and the related risks associated with entering new markets. Production masks that do not meet the criteria for capitalization are expensed as research and development costs. We believe that continued investments in our products are important to our future growth and, as a result, we expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars and moderately decline as a percentage of revenue over time as our revenue increases. Salesand Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related costs including salaries, stock-based compensation expense, employee benefits, bonuses, samples to potential customers, product marketing and conferences, travel and entertainment costs, and allocated shared expenses. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we increase our sales and marketing personnel and continue to expand our customer engagement with more design activities and increased product offerings and moderately decline as a percentage of revenue over time as our revenue increases. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs including salaries, stock-based compensation expense, employee benefits and bonuses related to corporate, finance, information technology, legal, and human resource functions, professional services fees, audit and compliance expenses, insurance costs, and general corporate expenses including allocated shared expenses. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we grow our operations and continue to incur additional expenses associated with operating as a public company and moderately decline as a percentage of revenue over time as our revenue increases. InterestIncome Interest income consists of income earned on our short-term investments included in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. IncomeTax Provision Income tax provision consists primarily of U.S. federal, state, and foreign income taxes. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our federal and state deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Resultsof Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 159,442 $ 65,258 $ 94,184 144 % Totalrevenueincreased$94.2 million,or 144%,forthe three months ended March 31, 2025comparedtothe threemonths ended March 31, 2024, primarilydue to an increase in overall unit shipments driven by higher demand for our Aries and Taurus products. The increase in revenue was also attributable to higher overall average selling prices resulting from an increased mix of hardware modules. 17 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages and bps) Cost of revenue $ 40,031 $ 14,738 $ 25,293 172 % Gross profit 119,411 50,520 68,891 136 % Gross margin 74.9 % 77.4 % (250) bps Totalcostofrevenueincreased$25.3 million,or 172%,forthe three months ended March 31, 2025comparedtothe three months ended March 31, 2024, primarilydue to an increase in overall unit shipments. Grossmargindecreased 250 bps to 74.9% forthe three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to 77.4%forthe three months ended March 31, 2024.The decrease was primarily driven by product mix as we shipped more hardware modules. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Researchand development $ 64,554 $ 53,558 $ 10,996 21 % Percentageof revenue 40 % 82 % Researchanddevelopmentexpenseincreased $11.0 million,or 21%, forthe three months ended March 31, 2025comparedto the three months ended March 31, 2024.Theincrease was primarily due to a $12.6 millionincrease in personnel-relatedexpensesasaresultof a 96% increase inheadcount, a $5.2 million increase in software licenses costs related to our development projects, a $1.6 million increase related to hardware design, a $0.5 million increase in professional services fees, and a $0.4 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. The increase was partially offset by a decrease of $10.8 million in non-cash stock-based compensation expense, which resulted primarily from the recognition of time-based vesting of RSUs following the satisfaction of the liquidity event vesting condition in connection with our IPO in the prior period. Salesand Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Salesand marketing $ 21,702 $ 55,510 $ (33,808) (61) % Percentageof revenue 14 % 85 % Salesandmarketingexpensedecreased$33.8 million,or 61%,forthe three months ended March 31, 2025 comparedto the three months ended March 31, 2024.The decreasewasprimarilydue to a $36.9 million decrease in non-cash stock-based compensation expense, which resulted primarily from the recognition of time-based vesting of RSUs following the satisfaction of the liquidity event vesting condition in connection with our IPO in the prior period. The decrease was partially offset by $2.6 million higherin personnel-relatedexpensesasaresultof a 15%increase inheadcount. 18 Table of Contents General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Generaland administrative $ 21,870 $ 24,419 $ (2,549) (10) % Percentageof revenue 14 % 37 % Generalandadministrativeexpensedecreased$2.5 million,or 10%,for the three months ended March 31, 2025 comparedto the three months ended March 31, 2024.The decreasewas primarily due to a $7.0 million decrease in non-cash stock-based compensation expense, which resulted primarily from the recognition of time-based vesting of RSUs following the satisfaction of the liquidity event vesting condition in connection with our IPO in the prior period. The decrease was partially offset by a $3.0 million increasein personnel-relatedexpensesasaresultof a 59%increase inheadcount, a $0.7 million increase in operating expenses primarily related to director and officer insurance premium in connection with becoming a publicly traded company, and a $0.5 million increase in professional services fees associated with the continued development of our public company infrastructure. InterestIncome Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Interestincome $ 10,432 $ 2,554 $ 7,878 308 % Forthethree months ended March 31, 2025, interest incomeincreased $7.9 million,or 308%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024,primarilydueto higher average balances of short-term investments and cash equivalents as a result of our IPO. IncomeTax Provision Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Incometax (benefit)provision $ (10,102) $ 12,582 $ (22,684) (180) % Incometax provisiondecreased $22.7 million,or 180%,forthe three months ended March 31, 2025comparedto the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily due to an increase in benefits from the excess tax benefits related to equity compensation, the foreign derived intangible income deduction and the U.S. research and development credits. Non-GAAPFinancialMeasures This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain financial measures that are not presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), which we use to supplement the performance measures in our condensed consolidated financial statements, which are presented in accordance with GAAP. We refer to these measures as non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating income, and non-GAAP net income. We use these non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to assist us in evaluating period-to-period comparisons. By excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our recurring core operating results, we believe that non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating income, and non-GAAP net income provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance. Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP financial 19 Table of Contents measures are useful to investors and others because they allow for additional information with respect to financial measures used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and they may be used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. However, there are a number of limitations related to the use of non-GAAP financial measures, and these non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from, our financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate these non-GAAP financial measures differently or not at all, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Gross Margin Wedefinenon-GAAP gross profit as gross profit presentedin accordancewith GAAP, adjustedtoexcludestock-basedcompensationexpenses. The non-GAAP gross margin is non-GAAP gross profit divided by revenue. Wehavepresentednon-GAAP gross profit becauseweconsidernon-GAAP gross profit tobeausefulmetricforinvestorsand otherusersof our financialinformationin evaluatingour operatingperformance as itexcludestheimpactof stock-based compensation, a chargethatcan varyfromperiodto periodforreasonsthatareunrelatedto our core operatingperformance.Thismetricalsoprovidesinvestorsandotherusersof our financialinformationwith an additionaltooltoeliminatetheeffectsof itemsthatmayvaryfordifferentcompaniesforreasonsunrelatedto coreoperatingperformance. AreconciliationofourGAAP gross profit and gross margin,themostdirectlycomparableGAAPfinancialmeasure,to non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross margin ispresentedbelow: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands, except percentages) GAAP gross profit $ 119,411 $ 50,520 Stock-basedcompensationexpense upon IPO (1) 516 Stock-based compensation expense (38) 12 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 119,373 $ 51,048 GAAP gross margin 74.9 % 77.4 % Stock-basedcompensationexpense upon IPO (1) 0.8 Stock-based compensation expense Non-GAAP gross margin 74.9 % 78.2 % (1) Stock-based compensation expense recognized in connection with the time-based vesting and settlement of RSUs that had previously met the time-based vesting condition and for which the liquidity event vesting condition was satisfied in connection with our IPO. 20 Table of Contents Non-GAAPOperatingIncome Wedefinenon-GAAP operatingincomeas operating income (loss)presentedin accordancewith GAAP, adjustedtoexcludestock-basedcompensationexpenses, and employer payroll taxes related to the time-based vesting and net settlement of RSUs with a liquidity event-based vesting condition that was satisfied in connection with the IPO.Wehavepresentednon-GAAP operating income becauseweconsidernon-GAAP operating incometobeausefulmetricforinvestorsand otherusersof our financialinformationin evaluatingour operatingperformance asitexcludestheimpactof stock-based compensation expense, and employer payroll taxes related to the time-based vesting and net settlement of restricted stock units in connection with our IPO, a chargethatcan varyfromperiodto periodforreasonsthatareunrelatedto our core operatingperformance.Thismetricalsoprovidesinvestorsandotherusersof our financialinformationwith an additionaltool to eliminatetheeffectsof itemsthatmayvaryfordifferentcompaniesforreasonsunrelatedto coreoperatingperformance. AreconciliationofourGAAPoperating income (loss),themostdirectlycomparableGAAPfinancialmeasure,to non-GAAPoperating income ispresentedbelow: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (inthousands, except percentages) GAAPoperating income (loss) $ 11,285 $ (82,967) Stock-basedcompensationexpense upon IPO (1) 88,873 Stock-basedcompensationexpense 42,446 8,895 Employer payroll tax related to stock-based compensation from IPO (2) 1,072 Non-GAAP operating income $ 53,731 $ 15,873 GAAPoperating margin 7.1 % (127.1) % Stock-basedcompensationexpense upon IPO (1) 136.2 Stock-basedcompensationexpense 26.6 13.6 Employer payroll tax related to stock-based compensation from IPO (2) 1.6 Non-GAAP operating margin 33.7 % 24.3 % (1) Stock-based compensation expense recognized in connection with the time-based vesting and settlement of RSUs that had previously met the time-based vesting condition and for which the liquidity event vesting condition was satisfied in connection with our IPO. (2) Employer payroll taxes related to the time-based vesting and settlement of RSUs that had previously met the time-based vesting condition and for which the liquidity event vesting condition was satisfied in connection with our IPO. Non-GAAPNet Income We monitor non-GAAP net income for planning and performance measurement purposes. We define non-GAAP net income as net income (loss) presentedin accordancewith GAAP on our condensed consolidated statements of operations, excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expenses, employer payroll taxes related to the time-based vesting and net settlement of RSUs with a liquidity event-based vesting condition that was satisfied in connection with our IPO, and the related tax impact on the adjustments. We have presented non-GAAP net income because we believe that the exclusion of these charges allows for a more relevant comparison of our results of operations to other companies in our industry and facilitates period-to-period comparisons as it eliminates the effect of certain factors unrelated to our overall operating performance. 21 Table of Contents AreconciliationofourGAAPnet income (loss),themostdirectlycomparableGAAPfinancialmeasure,toour non-GAAPnet income ispresentedbelow: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (inthousands) GAAPnet income (loss) $ 31,819 $ (92,995) Stock-based compensation expense upon IPO (1) 88,873 Stock-based compensation expense 42,446 8,895 Employer payroll tax related to stock-based compensation from IPO (2) 1,072 Income tax effect (3) (14,638) 8,485 Non-GAAP net income $ 59,627 $ 14,330 (1) Stock-based compensation expense recognized in connection with the time-based vesting and settlement of RSUs that had previously met the time-based vesting condition and for which the liquidity event vesting condition was satisfied in connection with our IPO. (2) Employer payroll taxes related to the time-based vesting and settlement of RSUs that had previously met the time-based vesting condition and for which the liquidity event vesting condition was satisfied in connection with our IPO. (3) Income tax effect is calculated based on the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate and is calculated to exclude the impact of stock-based compensation expense and one-off discrete tax adjustments that are unrelated to our core operating performance. We no longer maintain valuation allowance for non-GAAP purposes due to our profitability on a non-GAAP basis. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, the non-GAAP tax rate was approximately 7% and 22%, respectively. Liquidityand CapitalResources Sinceourinception,wehavefinancedour operationsprimarilythroughproceedsfrom the issuanceof our redeemableconvertiblepreferredstock, net proceeds from our IPO,andcashgeneratedfromthesaleofourproducts.AsofMarch 31, 2025,ourprincipalsourcesofliquiditywerecash,cashequivalents,andmarketablesecuritiesof$924.7 million. Ourprincipaluseof cash is to fund our operations, investin researchand development, fund production mask capital expenditures, and to supportour overall growth. While we have generated $10.5 million in cash flow from operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025, in prior years we generated significant losses from operationsandnegativecashflowsfromoperatingactivities asreflectedinouraccumulateddeficitof$177.0 million asofMarch 31, 2025.Webelievethatour currentcash,cash equivalents,andmarketablesecuritieswillbesufficienttofundouroperationsforatleastthenext12months and beyond. Ourfuturecapitalrequirements,however,willdependonmanyfactors,includingourgrowth rate,thetimingand extentof our salesand marketingand researchand developmentexpenditures, capital expenditures for production masks,thecontinuingmarketacceptance ofourproducts,andtheuseofcashtofundpotentialmergersoracquisitions.Intheeventthatadditional financingisrequiredfromoutsidesources,wemayseekto raiseadditionalfundsthroughequity,equity-linked arrangements,and debt.Ifwe areunableto raiseadditionalcapitalwhen desiredand at reasonablerates, our business,resultsof operations,and financialconditioncouldbe adverselyaffected. 22 Table of Contents Cash Flows The followingtablesummarizesour cashflowsfortheperiodspresented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (inthousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 10,504 $ 3,652 Net cash used in investing activities $ (3,940) $ (4,251) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 386 $ 651,578 OperatingActivities Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 of $10.5 million resulted primarily from a net income of $31.8 million and non-cash charges of $41.1 million primarily related to $42.4 million in stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by cash used in operating assets and liabilities of $62.4 million. Cash used in operating assets and liabilities during the period was primarily from an increase of $31.0 million in accounts receivable due to higher product sales and the timing of customer payments, a $14.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets primarily related excess tax benefit from equity compensation, a $11.7 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities primarily due to accrued customer deposits and the timing of payments, and a $6.8 million increase in inventory primarily due to build up for anticipated demand. The net cash flow used in operating assets and liabilities were partially offset by a $2.2 million increase in accounts payable mainly due to the timing of payments. Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 of $3.7 million resulted from non-cash charges of $98.9 million primarily related to $97.8 millionin stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by a net loss of $93.0 million and cash used in operating assets and liabilities of $2.2 million. Cash used in operating assets and liabilities during the period was primarily from an increase of $8.4 million in accounts receivable due to higher product sales and the timing of customer payments, a $5.9 million increase in inventory primarily due to build up for anticipated demand, and a $2.7 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets related to prepaid insurance. The net cash flow used in operating assets and liabilities were partially offset by a $10.2 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities primarily due to accrued income taxes, higher accrued pre-production engineering mask costs and the timing of payments, and a $5.0 million increase in accounts payable primarily due to the timing of payments. InvestingActivities Netcash used in investingactivitiesfor the three months ended March 31, 2025of$3.9 million was theresultof$190.8 million inpurchasesofmarketablesecuritiesand$4.5 million in purchasesof propertyand equipment, partially offset by $191.4 millioninproceedsfromsales and maturities ofmarketablesecurities. Netcash used in investingactivitiesforthe three months ended March 31, 2024 of $4.3 millionwas theresultof $23.3 millioninpurchasesofmarketablesecuritiesand $3.4 millionin purchasesof propertyand equipment. This was partially offset by $22.5 millionin proceedsfromsalesand maturities of marketablesecurities. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 of $0.4 million was the result of proceeds from exercises of stock options. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 of $651.6 million was the result of $672.2 million in proceeds from our IPO, net of underwriting discounts and commissions, and $1.2 million in proceeds from exercises of stock options net of repurchases. This was partially offset by $20.1 millionin tax withholding related to net share settlement of RSUs that had previously met the time-based vesting condition and for which the liquidity event vesting condition was satisfied in connection with our IPO, and $1.8 million in payments of deferred offering costs. 23 Table of Contents Material Cash Requirements Operatingleasecommitments.Ouroperatingleasecommitmentsprimarilyincludecorporateoffices.Asof March 31, 2025, there have been no material changes to our contractual obligations since previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Purchasecommitments.Ourpurchasecommitmentsareprimarilyrelatedto softwarelicenses, cloud hosting services, or performance of certain services. AsofMarch 31, 2025, there have been no material changes to our contractual obligations since previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. For an additional discussion on our Material Cash Requirements, see Note 6 - Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. IndemnificationAgreements See Note 6 - Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. CriticalAccounting Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make certain estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the related disclosures as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the period presented. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Formoreinformation,seeNote1toour Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.