ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Report represent forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding our strategy, future operations, financial condition, results of operations, projected costs, and plans and objectives of management. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements due to, among others, the risks and uncertainties described in this Report and in our other SEC filings. Asure has attempted to identify these forward-looking statements with the words believes, estimates, plans, expects, anticipates, may, will, could, should and other similar expressions. Although these forward-looking statements reflect managements current plans and expectations, which we believe reasonable as of the filing date of this Report, they inherently are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Additionally, Asure is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to conform such statements to actual results. Overview Asure is a leading provider of cloud-based Human Capital Management (HCM) software and services and, until its divestiture in December 2019, Workspace Management software solutions. Asure helps small and mid-sized companies grow by helping them build better teams with skills that get them to the next level, stay compliant with ever changing federal, state, and local tax jurisdictions and labor laws, and better allocation of cash so they can spend their financial capital on growing their business rather than back-office overhead that suffocates growth. Asures Human Capital Management suite, named AsureHCM, includes cloud-based Payroll & Tax, HR, and Time & Attendance software as well as HR Services ranging from HR projects to completely outsourcing payroll and HR staff. Asures platform vision is to help clients grow their business and become the most trusted Human Capital Management resource to entrepreneurs everywhere. The Asure product strategy is driven by three primary challenges that prevent businesses from growing: HR complexity, allocation of both human and financial capital, and the ability to build great teams. The AsureHCM suite includes four product lines: AsurePayroll&Tax, AsureHR, AsureTime&Attendance, and AsureHR Services. For all of Asures product lines, support and professional services are key elements of our value proposition and overall solution. In addition to state-of-the-art hosting platforms and regular software upgrades and releases, Asure gives clients easy access to our skilled support team. Our services and support representatives are knowledgeable about Asures solutions and HR best practices as many staff have professional certifications in payroll (CPP) and human resources (PHR and SPHR). Asure serves approximately 64,000 small and mid-sized businesses with approximately 16,000 of those being direct clients. The remaining approximate 48,000 indirect clients contract directly with our HCM reseller partners. Our sales and marketing strategy includes both direct and indirect channels to target small and mid-sized businesses (SMBs) throughout the United States. Our direct sales and marketing efforts include marketing to directly to SMBs and their trusted advisors which include CPAs, banks, and benefits brokers who frequently refer their clients to HCM vendors. Our indirect model licenses our HCM software to resellers that provide value-add HCM services to their clients. These resellers include pure-play payroll providers focused on a geographic or industry niche as well as CPAs, banks, and benefits brokers that want to expand relationships with their clients directly without referring those clients outside their business. In December 2019, we completed the sale of the assets of our Workspace Management business. We entered into an Asset and Equity Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with FM: Systems Group, LLC and FMS Bidco UK Limited (collectively, Buyer), pursuant to which, among other things, Buyer agreed to acquire all of the issued share capital of Asure Software UK Limited (UK) and OccupEye Limited (UK) (together, the Purchased Subsidiaries) and certain assets comprising our workspace solution business (Purchased Assets) and assume certain liabilities and obligations relating to the Purchased Assets or the workspace solution business, for an aggregate purchase price of $120 million in cash. The purchase price is subject to a working capital adjustment. For further information regarding the Purchase Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, see Note 12 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Under the continued guidance and direction of our directors and senior leadership, Asure will continue to implement its corporate strategy for growing its software and services business. However, uncertainties and challenges remain and there can be no assurances that Asure can successfully integrate acquired business operations, grow its revenues or achieve profitability and positive cash flows during calendar year 2020. 25 Table of Contents Operating Segment We operate as one operating segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which the chief operating decision maker, who in our case is the chief executive officer, in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance, evaluates separate financial information regularly. During 2019, and over the last few years, we have completed a number of acquisitions. These acquisitions have allowed us to expand our offerings, presence and reach in various market segments of the human capital management market. Our business operates in one operating segment because our chief operating decision maker evaluates our financial information and resources and assesses the performance of these resources on a consolidated basis. Since we operate as one operating segment, all required financial segment information can be found in the consolidated financial statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussions of our results of continuing operations exclude the results related to the Workspace Management business. This business has been segregated from continuing operations and is reflected as a discontinued operation. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by certain items in Asures Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss: 2019 2018 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Gross margin 59.2 62.1 Selling, general and administrative 57.5 57.8 Research and development 7.3 9.4 Amortization of intangible assets 16.1 11.8 Total operating expenses 128.9 79.0 Loss from continuing operations before income taxes (90.8 ) (30.4 ) Net income (loss) 41.0 (11.9 ) Comparison of Fiscal 2019 to 2018 Revenue Our revenue was derived from the following sources (Amounts in thousands): Revenue 2019 2018 Increase (Decrease) % Recurring revenue 70,066 $ 58,890 $ 11,176 19.0 Professional services, hardware and other revenue 3,084 4,736 (1,652 ) (34.9 ) Total revenue $ 73,150 $ 63,626 $ 9,524 15.0 Total revenue represents our consolidated revenues, including sales of our scheduling software, time and attendance and human resource software, as well as complementary hardware devices to enhance our software products. Most product groupings include cloud revenue, hardware revenue, maintenance and support revenue, on premise software license revenue as well as installation and services and other professional services revenue. Revenue mix varies by product. Excluding revenue from discontinued operations our total revenue in 2019 was $ 73,150 as compared to $63,626 in 2018. Total revenue increased by $9,524 , or 15.0 %, in 2019 as compared to 2018. Recurring revenue comprised the majority of the increase with an increase of $11,176 , or 19.0 %. Hardware and professional services revenue trended slightly downward, offset by an increase in on premise software license revenue. Although our total customer base is widely spread across industries, our HCM sales are concentrated in small to mid-size businesses. We continue to target small and medium-sized businesses across industries as prospective customers. Geographically, we sell our HCM products in the United States. In addition to continuing to develop our workforce solutions and release of new software updates and enhancements, we continue to actively explore other opportunities to acquire additional products or technologies to complement our current software and services. 26 Table of Contents Gross Profit and Gross Margin Consolidated gross profit was $43,314 in 2019 and $ 39,504 in 2018, a decrease of $ 3,810 , or 9.6% . Gross margin as a percentage of revenues was 59.2% for 2019 and 62.1 % for 2018. Gross margin decreased due to our growing investment in HCM service resources and migration to secure cloud hosting services. Our cost of sales relates primarily to direct product costs, compensation and related consulting expenses, hardware expenses, facilities and related expenses and the amortization of our purchased software development costs. We include intangible amortization related to developed and acquired technology within cost of sales. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $ 42,093 in 2019 and $ 36,765 in 2018, an increase of $ 5,328 , or 14.5% . SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenues were 57.5% and 57.8 % for 2019 and 2018, respectively. SG&A increased due to a full year of 2018 acquisition and integration related expenses and 2019 acquisition related expenses, as well as increased headcount as we continue to expand and increased selling costs as we focus on expanding recognition of our brand. Additionally, we have invested into a new ERP system and resources to improve the financial reporting process. We may incur significant additional legal expenses and/or professional services-related expenses in the future if we pursue further acquisitions of products or businesses, even if we ultimately do not consummate any acquisition. Research and Development Expenses Research and development (R&D) expenses were $ 5,351 in 2019 and $ 5,998 in 2018, a decrease of $ 647 , or 10.8% . R&D expenses as a percentage of revenues were 7.3% % and 9.4% for 2019 and 2018, respectively. Key 2019 product highlights include: Asure Payroll&Tax SMB: In 2019 we made a significant stride forward in unifying our solutions with the release of our Payroll & Tax and Time & Labor integration. The unified solution uses a single point of entry for employee demographic data, and worked hours flow from Time & Labor to Payroll & Tax for paying employees. We also modernized the web user interface to give it a current look and feel for market relevance and expected user experience. We broadened our third-party integrations footprint with key national providers of HCM-adjacent services with two initiatives in 2019: 1) Asures new integration with Hartford XactPay was released in 2019 for depth with pay-as-you-go workers compensation, and 2) In late 2019 we developed a general ledger integration with QuickBooks Online , for Beta and general release in 2020. In 2019 we also made significant progress in developing our new Simple Payroll Entry module, which enables clients to have direct access to enter their hours for payroll, with an elegant and modern user experience, served up in mobile-ready web pages. Because Simple Payroll Entry is being developed and launched on our new cloud-based platform, this is a significant step forward in developing our next-generation solution ecosystem. Simple Payroll Entry is part of a broader Simple Client Operations solution that will increase operational efficiencies for both Asure and our resellers, and will also drive new business growth with a market-leading solution for payroll client self-service. Development will be complete on Simple Payroll Entry in early second quarter of 2020, followed by a Beta period and general release. In our continuing commitment to keep our clients compliant, we also released a product update to reflect the revamped 2020 W-4 income tax withholding announced by the IRS in 2019. AsureTime&Attendance : We expanded our clock hardware offering by adding two new devices. The AsureTC Basic brings a low-cost clock to our SMB market and the AsureTC Elite brings new technology to time clocks offering a 10.1-inch touch screen and a full suite of employee self-service and supervisor functions. We continued to expand our flagship product to be in line with our new hardware offerings and brought remote clock management tools to the hands of our clients. In 2019 we launched the integration with our SMB Payroll product bringing us closer to a single-source solution. We continued improvements to our web product with a messaging system to alert clients of important events such as upgrades and outage windows, a redesigned bulk hour time card, and expanded reporting capabilities with our Advanced reports powered by Izenda. AsureHR: We spent the first quarter of 2019 developing and releasing a new Direct Deposit functionality for employees, which allowed them to make changes to existing direct deposits without needing the approval of an administrator, providing operational efficiencies to service bureaus and better experience to employees. This feature (like the rest of the features developed later in the year), was focused on based on data that came to us through 27 Table of Contents customer surveys as to what the customers wanted. While running a beta program during the second quarter of 2019 for Direct Deposit and making adjustments, we also began the development of e-signature integration with HelloSign, which was released to beta at the end of the second quarter and publicly released in the third quarter of 2019. This functionality allowed employees to e-sign company documents upon new hire onboarding. In the third quarter of 2019, we worked mostly on benefits related functionality and released seven new benefit plans, in addition to carrier feeds integration with eBN. During the last quarter of the year, we worked on the 2020 W-4 (added it to New Hire Onboarding, taxes screens and allowed for mid-year changes in the form through the product), and also kept improving benefits and e-signature, based on feedback that came from the users after the public releases of these features in the third quarter of 2019. AsureHCM Mid-Market: We enhanced our landing page for Employee Self Service users. By doing this, we have put information important to employees on the main screen upon entering the employee website. We also invested in infrastructure improvements and updates to our conversion tool for our network of bureaus and partners. We continued to improve and expand our API and End-Point sets that serve as the basis of our first HCM-native mobile application. The mobile app for Apple and Android will hit the app stores in April 2020. In addition, we are committed to keeping up with all compliance demands and delivered the new EEOC-component 2 reporting as well as the new 2020 Federal W-4 form. Infrastructure & Automation: We continued to consolidate our infrastructure into Amazon Web Services ("AWS"), migrating more platforms into AWS for increased availability, scalability, and performance. Asure also invested heavily on DevOps and infrastructure automation to increase efficiency in deployment, monitoring and provisioning of products and services to our customers. Security, Compliance & Certifications: Asure has also made significant investment outside of core R&D dollars into compliance and certifications, including SOC 1 Type 2 for AsureHCM in Q2, SOC 1 Type 2 for our hubs in Q3, SOC 2 Type 2 for our hosted applications in Q4, FedRAMP certification in Q3, and other initiatives. Coinciding with our move to AWS, we continued to invest in improved security tools and enhancements to our products to address the evolving cybersecurity and fraud threats in the HCM and payroll industries. Our development efforts for future releases and enhancements are driven by feedback received from our existing and potential customers and by gauging market trends. We believe we have the appropriate development team to design and enhance our solution suite and integrated platform. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization expenses in 2019 were $ 11,765 , an increase of $ 4,284 , or 57.3% , as compared to $7,481 in 2018. Amortization expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.1% and 11.8% % for 2019 and 2018, respectively. In 2019, we accelerated the amortization after a reassessment of the useful lives of certain trade names in relation to our rebranding efforts, resulting in an increase in amortization expense. Impairment of Goodwill During fiscal 2019, we determined that the estimated fair value of our HCM reporting unit was less than its carrying value. Therefore, we compared the carrying value of the reporting unit to its fair value in order to determine if an impairment exists. In addition to performing the income based approach discussed above we compared the market value of our common stock to our HCM reporting units carrying value noting its carrying value exceeded market value. A non-cash, before-tax impairment charge of $35,060 was recognized to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill to its estimated fair value as of December 31, 2019. There was no goodwill impairment recognized in 2018. Interest Expense and Other, net Interest expense and other, net was $ 15,447 for the year ended 2019 as compared to $ 8,615 in the year ended 2018. Interest expense and other, net is primarily comprised of loss from our extinguishment of debt and interest expense which increased in 2019 due the to the higher debt balances due from acquisitions. Income Taxes At December 31, 2019, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $33,700 , Federal R&D credit carryforwards of approximately $3,739 and alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of approximately $31 . The net operating 28 Table of Contents loss and Federal R&D credit carryforwards will expire in varying amounts from 2020 through 2038, if not utilized. Federal net operating losses generated in 2018 and after are carried forward indefinitely. Income tax benefit attributable to continuing operations increased from $7,982 in 2018 to $24,111 in 2019, a $ 16,129 , or 202.1% , increase. These figures represent an effective tax rate of 36.3% and 41.2% in 2019 and 2018, respectively. In 2019, we recorded income tax benefits from continuing operations primarily related to the utilization of current year losses and losses previously offset by valuation allowance to offset the tax provision attributable to discontinued operations. In addition, we recognized a deferred tax benefit due to the creation of an indefinite life deferred tax asset related to impairment of goodwill. The creation of this additional indefinite deferred tax asset provided an ability to offset such deferred tax asset against our previously recognized indefinite life deferred tax liability related to tax deductible goodwill. Because we have not generated domestic net income in any period to date, we have recorded a full valuation allowance against our domestic net deferred tax assets, exclusive of any remaining tax deductible goodwill after application of indefinite life deferred tax assets. Realization of any of our domestic deferred tax assets depends upon future earnings, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. As a result of our various acquisitions in prior years, utilization of the net operating losses and credit carryforwards may be subject to a substantial annual limitation due to the change in ownership provisions of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The annual limitation may result in the expiration of net operating losses before utilization. Due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of realizing the benefits of our favorable tax attributes in future tax returns, we have placed a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax asset, exclusive of jurisdictions in which we have net deferred tax liabilities. During 2019, we decreased the valuation allowance attributable to continuing operations by approximately $14,849 due primarily to operations and acquisitions. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (Amounts in thousands) 2019 2018 Working capital $ 17,854 $ 11,443 Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments 28,826 15,444 Net cash used in operating activities (450 ) (7,129 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 96,942 (107,228 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (82,995 ) 101,788 Working Capital . We had working capital of $ 17,854 at December 31, 2019, an increase of $ 6,411 from $ 11,443 at December 31, 2018. We attribute the increase in our working capital primarily to an increase in cash and cash equivalents due to the divestiture of our Workspace Management business. Working capital at December 31, 2019 includes $5,500 of short term deferred revenue, an increase in short term deferred revenue of $2,613 compared to December 31, 2018. Deferred revenue is an obligation to perform future services. We expect that deferred revenue will convert to future revenue as we perform our services, but this does not represent future payments. Deferred revenue can vary based on seasonality, expiration of initial multi-year contracts and deals that are billed after implementation rather than in advance of service delivery. Operating Activities . Net cash used in operating activities was $ 450 in 2019. The $ 450 of cash used in operating activities during 2019, including discontinued operations, was primarily driven by our net income of $30,001 and increases in deferred revenue of $5,662 , and accrued expenses and other long-term obligations of $5,649 . This was offset by non-cash adjustments of $(35,215) , increases in accounts receivable of $1,446 and inventory of $1,581 , and a decrease in accounts payable of $3,174 . Net cash used in operating activities was $7,129 in 2018. The $7,129 of cash used in operating activities during 2018 was primarily driven by our net loss of $7,548, increases in inventory and accounts receivable of $2,948 and $1,719, respectively, and a decrease in accrued expenses of $2,410, offset by non-cash adjustments of $8,571. Investing Activities . Net cash provided by investing activities during 2019 was $ 96,942 , which was primarily driven by the proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations. Cash used in investing activities during 2018 was $107,228. The cash used in investing activities in 2018 is primarily comprised of the 2018 acquisitions. Financing Activities . Net cash used in financing activities of $ 82,995 in 2019 was primarily due to the payments of our notes payable and debt financing costs. Net cash provided by financing activities of $101,788 in 2018 was primarily due to an increase of $36,750 in our indebtedness and net proceeds of approximately $39,449 from the issuance of our common stock in an underwritten public offering we completed in June 2018, partially offset by payments on debt of $11,645 and debt financing fees of $1,693. 29 Table of Contents Sources of Liquidity . As of December 31, 2019, Asures principal sources of liquidity consisted of approximately $28,826 of cash and cash equivalents, future cash generated from operations of our business over the next twelve months, and $10,000 available for borrowing under our Wells Fargo revolver. Based on current internal projections, we believe that we have and/or will generate sufficient cash for our operational needs, including any required debt payments, for at least the next twelve months from issuance of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We continue to be focused on growing our existing software operations and seeking accretive and complimentary strategic acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. We believe the available sources of liquidity described above will be sufficient to fund such growth activities but may raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to supplement those sources as we execute on our growth plan. Shelf Registration In April 2018, we filed a universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to provide access to additional capital, if needed. Pursuant to the shelf registration statement, we may from time to time offer to sell in one or more offerings shares of our common stock or other securities having an aggregate value of up to $175,000 (which includes approximately $60,000 of unsold securities that were previously registered on our currently effective registration statements). The shelf registration statement relating to these securities became effective on April 16, 2018. In June 2018, we completed an underwritten public offering in which we sold an aggregate of 2,375,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $17.50 per share. We realized net proceeds of approximately $38,900 after deducting underwriting discounts and estimated offering expenses. As of December 31, 2018, there is approximately $133,400 remaining available under the shelf registration statement. Credit Agreement In March 2014, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Wells Fargo, as administrative agent, and the lenders that are party thereto. The Credit Agreement contains customary events of default, including, among others, payment defaults, covenant defaults, judgment defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency events, cross defaults to certain indebtedness, incorrect representations or warranties, and change of control. In some cases, the defaults are subject to customary notice and grace period provisions. In March 2014 and in connection with the Credit Agreement, we and our wholly-owned active subsidiaries entered into a Guaranty and Security Agreement with Wells Fargo Bank. Under the Guaranty and Security Agreement, we and each of our wholly-owned active subsidiaries have guaranteed all obligations under the Credit Agreement and granted a security interest in substantially all of our and our subsidiaries assets. In December 2019, we entered into a third amended and restated credit agreement (the Third Restated Credit Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, as agent and lender, amending and restating the terms of the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 2018. The Third Restated Credit Agreement provides for $20,000,000 in term loans and a $10,000,000 revolver. The Third Restated Credit Agreement amends the applicable margin rates for determining the interest rate payable on the loans as follows: Leverage Ratio Applicable Margin Relative to Base Rate Loans Applicable Margin Relative to LIBOR Rate Loans < 2.00:1.00 2.25% percentage points 3.25% percentage points 3.00:1.00, and 2.00:1.00 2.75% percentage points 3.75% percentage points 3.00:1.00 3.25% percentage points 4.25% percentage points The outstanding principal amount of the term loan is payable as follows: $125,000 beginning on March 31, 2020 and the last day of each fiscal quarter thereafter through and including December 31, 2021; and $250,000 beginning on March 31, 2022 and the last day of each fiscal quarter thereafter. The outstanding principal balance and all accrued and unpaid interest on the term loans is due on December 31, 2024. 30 Table of Contents The Third Restated Credit Agreement also: adds a covenant that requires that we achieve EBITDA of at least $3,750,000 at March 31, 2020, $4,850,000 at June 30, 2020 and $5,950,000 at September 30, 2020, which covenant is in lieu of a leverage covenant calculated at March 31, 2020, June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2020; amends our leverage ratio covenant to decrease the maximum ratio to 3.50:1.00 at December 31, 2020, 3.25:1.00 at March 31, 2021 and June 30, 2021 and 2.50:1.00 at September 30, 2021 and each quarter-end thereafter; and amends our fixed charge coverage ratio to be no less than 1.00:1.00 at March 31, 2020, and each quarter end thereafter through and including December 31, 2021, 1.50:1.00 at March 31, 2022, 1.60:1.00 at June 30, 2022, and 2.00:1:00 at September 30, 2022 and each quarter end thereafter. As of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, no amount was outstanding and $10,000 and $5,000, respectively, was available for borrowing under the revolver. As of December 31, 2019 , compliance with certain financial covenants was not yet required under the Third Restated Credit Agreement and all payments remain current. We expect to be in compliance or be able to obtain compliance through debt repayments with available cash on hand or cash we expect to generate from the ordinary course of operations over the next twelve months. See Note 6 - Notes Payable in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information about the Credit Agreement and Guaranty and Security Agreement. We cannot assure that we can grow our cash balances or limit our cash consumption and thus maintain sufficient cash balances for our planned operations or future acquisitions. Future business demands may lead to cash utilization at levels greater than recently experienced. We may need to raise additional capital in the future in order to grow our existing software operations and to seek additional strategic acquisitions in the near future. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to raise additional capital on acceptable terms, or at all. Subject to the foregoing, management believes that we have sufficient capital and liquidity to fund and cultivate the growth of our current and future operations for at least the next twelve months and to maintain compliance with the terms of our debt agreements and related covenants or to obtain compliance through debt repayments made with our available cash on hand or anticipated for receipt in the ordinary course of operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We have prepared our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and included the accounts of Asures wholly owned subsidiaries. We have eliminated all significant intercompany transactions and balances in the consolidation. Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of the assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at fiscal year-end and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the fiscal year. The more significant estimates made by management include the valuation allowance for our gross deferred tax asset, lease impairment, useful lives of fixed assets, the determination of the fair value of our long-lived assets and the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed during acquisitions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that management believes are reasonable under the given circumstances. These estimates could be materially different under different conditions and assumptions. Additionally, the actual amounts could differ from the estimates made. Management periodically evaluates estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements for continued reasonableness. We prospectively apply appropriate adjustments, if any, to our estimates based upon our periodic evaluation. We believe the following are our critical accounting policies: Revenue Recognition Our revenue consists of software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings and time-based software subscription license arrangements that also, typically include hardware, maintenance/support, and professional services elements. We recognize revenue on an output basis when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, we allocate revenue to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. We determine standalone selling prices based on the amount that we believe the market is willing to pay determined through 31 Table of Contents historical analysis of sales data as well as through use of the residual approach when we can estimate the standalone selling price for one or more, but not all, of the promised goods or services. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , and ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of Effective Date, which deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year. ASU 2014-09 (Topic 606) Revenue from Contracts with Customers) supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 605, Revenue Recognition, and is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. It also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue, cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments, and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. The adoption of ASU 2014-09, using the modified retrospective approach, had no significant impact on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. The initial application was applied to all contracts at the date of initial application. We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. We recorded a $1,500 cumulative effect adjustment to opening retained earnings as of January 1, 2018 related to an increase in deferred commissions. There was no impact to revenue as a result of applying Topic 606. The primary impact of adopting Topic 606 is to sales commissions related to onboarding new clients that were previously expensed. Under the new standard, these costs are now capitalized as deferred commissions and amortized over the estimated customer life of five to ten years. SaaS arrangements and time-based software subscriptions typically have an initial term ranging from one to three years and are renewable on an annual basis. A typical SaaS/software subscription arrangement will also include hardware, setup and implementation services. Revenue allocated to the SaaS/software subscription performance obligations are recognized on an output basis ratably as the service is provided over the non-cancellable term of the SaaS/subscription service and are reported as Recurring revenue on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss. Revenue allocated to other performance obligations included in the arrangement is recognized as outlined in the paragraphs below. Hardware devices sold to customers are sold as either a standard product sell arrangement where title to the hardware passes to the customer or under a hardware-as-a-service (HaaS) arrangement where the title to the hardware remains with Asure. Revenue allocated to hardware sold as a standard product are recognized on an output basis when title passes to the customer, typically the date we ship the hardware. Revenue allocated to hardware under a hardware-as-a-service (HaaS) arrangement are recognized on an output basis, recorded ratably as the service is provided over the non-cancellable term of the HaaS arrangement, typically one year. Revenue recognized from hardware devices sold to customers via either of the two above types of arrangements are reported as Hardware revenue on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss. Our professional services offerings typically include data migration, set up, training, and implementation services. Set up and implementation services typically occur at the start of the software arrangement while certain other professional services, depending on the nature of the services and customer requirements, may occur several months later. We can reasonably estimate professional services performed for a fixed fee and we recognize allocated revenue on an output basis on a proportional performance basis as the service is provided. We recognize allocated revenue on an output basis for professional services engagements billed on a time and materials basis as the service is provided. We recognize allocated revenue on an output basis on all other professional services engagements upon the earlier of the completion of the services deliverable or the expiration of the customers right to receive the service. Revenue recognized from professional services offerings are reported as Professional service revenue on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss. We recognize allocated revenue for maintenance/support on an output basis ratably over the non-cancellable term of the support agreement. Initial maintenance/support terms are typically one to three years and are renewable on an annual basis. Revenue recognized from maintenance/support are reported as Maintenance and support revenue on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss. We do not recognize revenue for agreements with rights of return, refundable fees, cancellation rights or substantive acceptance clauses until these return, refund or cancellation rights have expired or acceptance has occurred. Our arrangements with resellers do not allow for any rights of return. Our payment terms vary by the type of customer and the customers payment history and the products or services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant and as such our contracts do not include a significant 32 Table of Contents financing component. The transaction prices of our contracts do not include consideration amounts that are variable and do not include noncash consideration. Deferred revenue includes amounts invoiced to customers in excess of revenue we recognize, and is comprised of deferred SaaS/software, HaaS, Maintenance and support, and Professional services revenue. We recognize deferred revenue when we complete the service and over the terms of the arrangements, primarily ranging from one to three years. Intangible Assets and Goodwill We record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition, with any excess purchase price recorded as goodwill. Valuation of intangible assets and in-process research and development entails significant estimates and assumptions including, but not limited to, estimating future cash flows from product sales, developing appropriate discount rates, estimating probability rates for the continuation of customer relationships and renewal of customer contracts and approximating the useful lives of the intangible assets acquired. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that we not amortize intangible assets other than goodwill with an indefinite life until we determine their life as finite. We must amortize all other intangible assets over their useful lives. We currently amortize our acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from one to nine years. We have assessed the fair value of our customer relationship intangible assets as of December 31, 2019, we do not believe these to be impaired, as the carrying value of the customer relationship intangible assets are recoverable through the associated project cash flows. Impairment of Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets In accordance with FASB ASC 350, we review and evaluate our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that we may not recover their net book value. When such factors and circumstances exist, including those noted above, we compare the assets carrying amounts against the estimated undiscounted cash flows we expect to generate with those assets over their estimated useful lives. If the carrying amounts are greater than the undiscounted cash flows, we estimate the fair values of those assets by discounting the projected cash flows. We record any excess of the carrying amounts over the fair values as impairments in that fiscal period. In 2019, we accelerated the amortization after a reassessment of the useful lives of certain trade names in relation to our rebranding efforts. There has been no other impairment of intangible assets and long-lived assets for the periods presented. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price in a business combination over the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter of each year, and between annual tests if indicators of potential impairment exist, using a fair-value-based approach. In 2019, we recognized an impairment loss on goodwill. There has been no impairment of goodwill in 2018. See Notes 4 and 5 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding goodwill. Income Taxes We account for income taxes using the liability method under ASC 740, Accounting for Income Taxes, which requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events included in the financial statements. Under the liability method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect in the years in which we expect the differences to reverse. We reduce deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that we will not realize some component or all of the deferred tax assets. See Note 2 Significant Account Policies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information about Recent Accounting Pronouncements.