ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Report represent forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding our strategy, future operations, financial condition, results of operations, projected costs, and plans and objectives of management. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements due to, among others, the risks and uncertainties described in this Report and in our other SEC filings. Asure has attempted to identify these forward-looking statements with the words believes, estimates, plans, expects, anticipates, may, could and other similar expressions. Although these forward-looking statements reflect managements current plans and expectations, which we believe reasonable as of the filing date of this Report, they inherently are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Additionally, Asure is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to conform such statements to actual results. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth, for the fiscal periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by certain items in Asures Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss: 2017 2016 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Gross margin 76.8 77.2 Selling, general and administrative 62.2 59.2 Research and development 8.2 8.2 Amortization of intangible assets 8.2 6.3 Total operating expenses 78.7 73.7 Total other loss, net (8.5 ) (6.2 ) Net loss (10.5 ) (2.7 ) Overview Asure is a leading global provider of cloud-based software-as-a-service (SaaS) time and labor management and Agile Workplace management solutions that enable companies of all sizes and complexities to operate more efficiently and proactively manage costs associated with their most expensive assets: real estate, labor and technology. We currently offer two main product lines, AsureSpace and AsureForce. Our AsureSpace Agile Workplace management solutions enable organizations to manage their office environments and optimize real estate utilization. Our AsureForce time and labor management solutions help organizations optimize labor and labor administration costs and activities. With our acquisitions of Mangrove Employer Services, Inc. and the assets of Mangrove COBRAsource Inc. in March 2016, we have entered into the human resource management, payroll processing and benefits administration services businesses, which we are integrating into our existing AsureForce product line. In January 2017, we closed on the purchase of three strategic acquisitions: Personnel Management Systems, Inc. (PMSI), a leading provider of outsourced HR solutions; Corporate Payroll, Inc. -Payroll Division (CPI), a leading provider of payroll services; and Payroll Specialties NW, Inc. (PSNW), a leading provider of payroll services. We acquired all of the outstanding shares of common stock of PMSI, a Washington corporation. The aggregate consideration for the stock consisted of (i) $3.875 million in cash and (ii) a subordinated promissory note in the principal amount of $1.125 million, subject to adjustment. We also acquired substantially all the assets of CPI, an Ohio corporation, relating to its payroll service bureau business. The aggregate consideration for the assets consisted of (i) $1.5 million in cash, (ii) a subordinated promissory note in the principal amount of $500,000 and (iii) 112,166 shares of our common stock valued at $1.0 million, subject to adjustment. Finally, we acquired substantially all the assets of PSNW, an Oregon corporation. The aggregate consideration for the assets consisted of (i) $3.010 million in cash and (ii) a subordinated promissory note in the principal amount of $600,000, subject to adjustment. 27 Table of Contents In May 2017, we entered into an equity purchase agreement (the Equity Purchase Agreement) with iSystems Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and iSystems Intermediate Holdco, Inc., a Delaware corporation (iSystems), pursuant to which we acquired 100% of the outstanding equity interests of iSystems for an aggregate purchase price of $55.0 million. The aggregate purchase price consists of (i) $32.0 million in cash, subject to adjustment, (ii) a secured subordinated promissory note (iSystems Note) in the principal amount of $5.0 million, subject to adjustment, and (iii) 1,526,332 shares of unregistered common stock valued at $18.0 million based on a volume-weighted average of the closing prices of our common stock during a 90-day period. Based in Vermont, iSystems is a leading national provider of HCM solutions to more than 100 payroll and HR service bureaus, providing Asure with additional cross-sell revenue opportunities and cost synergies. In May 2017, we also entered into a stock purchase agreement with Compass HRM, Inc. (Compass) and the sellers and seller representative named therein, pursuant to which the sellers sold 100% of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Compass to us for an aggregate purchase price of $6.0 million, subject to adjustment. The aggregate purchase price consists of $4.5 million in cash and a subordinated promissory note in the principal amount of $1.5 million, subject to adjustment. Compass is headquartered in Tampa, Florida, and provides cloud-based human resource management software, including payroll, benefits, time and attendance, and performance management. We completed an underwritten public offering in June 2017. In connection with the public offering, we issued 2,185,000 shares of common stock, including 285,000 shares of common stock pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters over-allotment option, at the public offering price of $13.50 per share. We recognized net proceeds of $27.8 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and other estimated offering expenses. In October 2017, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with Associated Data Services, Inc. (ADS) and the sellers and seller representative named therein, pursuant to which the sellers sold 100% of the outstanding shares of capital stock of ADS to us for an aggregate purchase price of $3.4 million, subject to adjustment. The aggregate purchase price consists of $1.8 million in cash; 44,624 shares of Asure Software, Inc. common stock valued at $528,200; and a subordinated promissory note in the principal amount of $1.2 million, subject to adjustment. ADS is a leading regional human resources and payroll services bureau in the Southeast and a current reseller of our HCM solution, Evolution based in Birmingham, Alabama. See Note 4- Acquisitions in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information about the acquisitions completed in 2017. To finance the cash portion of the purchase price for the iSystems and Compass acquisitions in May 2017, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the Restated Credit Agreement). The Restated Credit Agreement provides for an increase in the aggregate principal amount of total commitments from approximately $32.7 million to $75.0 million. This increase includes an additional term loan commitment of approximately $40.3 million and an additional revolver commitment of $2.0 million. The term loan consists of a $35.0 million First Out Loan Obligation funded by Wells Fargo as administrative agent, and a $35.0 million Last Out Loan Obligation funded by Wells Fargos syndicate partner, Goldman Sachs. We borrowed $36.5 million to complete the two acquisitions. The Restated Credit Agreement also changes the applicable margin rates for determining the interest rate payable on the loan and our leverage ratio, fixed charge coverage ratio and Trailing Twelve Months recurring revenue requirements. See Note 6- Notes Payable in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information about the Restated Credit Agreement. In January 2018, we completed the following three acquisitions: TelePayroll, Inc., Pay Systems of America, Inc. and Savers Administrative Services Inc. Each of the acquired companies are leading providers of human resources, payroll and employee benefits services and are licensees of our HCM software platform, Evolution. TelePayroll operates in southern California; Pay Systems of America operates in Tennessee and Iowa; and Savers Administrative Services operates in North Carolina. The total consideration for the three acquisitions was $30.6 million, of which $25.3 million was paid in cash with cash on hand and the remaining portion was paid with a combination of promissory notes and Asure common stock. See Note 14- Subsequent Events in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information about the acquisitions completed in January 2018. We target our sales and marketing efforts to a wide range of audiences, from small to medium-sized businesses and divisions of enterprise organizations throughout the United States, Europe and Asia/Pacific. We generate sales of our solutions through our direct sales teams and indirectly through our channel partners. We are expanding our investment in our direct sales teams to continue to address our market opportunity. Under the continued guidance and direction of our directors and Chief Executive Officer, Asure will continue to implement its corporate strategy for growing its software and services business. However, uncertainties and challenges remain and there can be no assurances that Asure can successfully integrate acquired business operations, grow its revenues or achieve profitability and positive cash flows during calendar year 2018. 28 Table of Contents Operating Segment We operate as one operating segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which the chief operating decision maker, who in our case is the chief executive officer, in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance, evaluates separate financial information regularly. During 2017, and over the last few years, we have completed a number of acquisitions. These acquisitions have allowed us to expand our offerings, presence and reach in various market segments of the human capital management market. Our business operates in one operating segment because our chief operating decision maker evaluates our financial information and resources and assesses the performance of these resources on a consolidated basis. Since we operate as one operating segment, all required financial segment information can be found in the consolidated financial statements. Revenue Our revenue was derived from the following sources (in thousands): Revenue 2017 2016 Increase (Decrease) % Cloud revenue $ 39,267 $ 20,606 $ 18,661 90.6 Hardware revenue 4,703 3,795 908 23.9 Maintenance and support revenue 4,453 4,566 (113 ) (2.5 ) On premise software license revenue 1,392 2,218 (826 ) (37.2 ) Professional services revenue 4,627 4,357 270 6.2 Total revenue $ 54,442 $ 35,542 $ 18,900 53.2 Total revenue represents our consolidated revenues, including sales of our scheduling software, time and attendance and human resource software, as well as complementary hardware devices to enhance our software products. Most product groupings include cloud revenue, hardware revenue, maintenance and support revenue, on premise software license revenue as well as installation and services and other professional services revenue. Revenue mix varies by product. Our total revenue in 2017 was $54,442 as compared to $35,542 in 2016. Total revenue increased by $18,900, or 53.2%, in 2017 as compared to 2016. Cloud revenue comprised the majority of the increase with an increase of $18,661, or 90.6%. Hardware revenue and professional services revenue also increased, offset by a decrease in on premise software license revenue and a small decrease in maintenance and support revenue. Cloud revenue increased $18,661, or 90.6%, over 2016. Cloud revenue was $39.3 million in 2017 as compared to $20.6 million in 2016. Overall, we attribute the majority of the increase in cloud revenue to the acquisitions in 2017, which contributed $17.1 million in cloud revenue in 2017, and an increase in Mangrove and organic Asure Software cloud revenue, which increased $635,000 and $1.2 million, respectively over 2016 cloud revenue. iSystems and PMSI contributed $7.4 million and $4.4 million, respectively, of the $17.1 million in cloud revenue from acquisitions, or 69.3%. Hardware revenue increased by $908, or 23.9%, over 2016. This was primarily due to a large sale of hardware as part of a major customer contract we successfully gained in 2017. Maintenance and support revenue slightly decreased by $113, or 2.5%, over 2016. Maintenance and support revenue was $4.5 million in 2017 as compared to $4.6 million in 2016. This decrease is primarily a result of movements of clients from on premise to on demand, cloud-based solutions and timing of work performed on contracts. On premise software license revenues decreased $826, or 37.2%, as compared to 2016. On premise software license revenue was $1.4 million in 2017 as compared to $2.2 million in 2016. This decrease is primarily a result of movements of clients from on premise to on demand, cloud-based solutions. Professional services revenue increased $270, or 6.2%, over 2016. Professional services revenue was $4.6 million in 2017 as compared to $4.4 million in 2016. Professional services revenue increased primarily as a result of the acquisitions of iSystems and PMSI in 2017. Although our total customer base is widely spread across industries, our sales are concentrated in certain industry sectors, including corporate education, healthcare, government, legal and non-profit. We continue to target small and medium sized businesses and divisions of larger enterprises in these same industries as prospective customers. Geographically, we sell our products worldwide, but sales are largely concentrated in the United States, Canada and Europe. Additionally, we have reseller partners in North America, UK, South Africa and Asia Pacific. 29 Table of Contents In addition to continuing to develop our workforce and Agile Workplace management solutions and release of new software updates and enhancements, we continue to actively explore other opportunities to acquire additional products or technologies to complement our current software and services. Through acquisitions in 2011 of ADI and Legiant, we expanded our cloud computing time and attendance software and management services business. The 2012 acquisition of PeopleCube gave us a product line that includes software to assist customers in driving integrated facility management of offices, conference rooms, video conferencing, events and training, alternative workspaces and lobby use. The 2014 acquisitions of FotoPunch and Roomtag support our vision to deliver innovative cloud-based Agile Workplace technologies. Our March 2016 acquisitions from Mangrove enable us to enter into the human resource management, payroll processing and benefits administration services businesses, which we are integrating into our existing AsureForce product line. With respect to the three acquisitions closed in January 2017, PSNW and CPI are top regional service bureaus that resell our HCM products (formerly Mangrove) and integrate seamlessly into our business, while PMSI is a leading HCM service company that expands our solution, service, and implementation capabilities. Our May 2017 acquisition of iSystems, a leading national provider of HCM solutions, provides us with additional cross-sell revenue opportunities and cost synergies and our May 2017 acquisition of Compass HRM, an existing reseller of our HCM offerings, provides us with a regional HR and payroll service bureau in the Southeast. Our October 2017 acquisition of ADS, a leading regional human resources and payroll services bureau in the Southeast and a current reseller of our HCM solution, Evolution, was consistent with our vision to deliver a unified SaaS-based HCM platform and workplace solutions to support an evolving mobile workforce. Gross Margin Consolidated gross margin was $41.8 million in 2017 and $27.4 million in 2016, an increase of $14.4 million, or 52.5%. Gross margin as a percentage of revenues was 76.8% for 2017 and 77.2% for 2016. Gross margin increased in line with the increase in total revenue. Our cost of sales relates primarily to direct product costs, compensation and related consulting expenses, hardware expenses, facilities and related expenses and the amortization of our purchased software development costs. These expenses represented approximately 95% of the total cost of sales for 2017 and 93% for 2016. These expenses increased by approximately $4.5 million, or 59.4%, over 2016. This increase is comprised primarily of increases in salary and benefits expense of $2.9 million, or 74.0%, and an increase in product costs of $1.2 million, or 45.5%, over 2016. We include intangible amortization related to developed and acquired technology within cost of sales. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $33.9 million in 2017 and $21.0 million in 2016, an increase of $12.8 million, or 61.0%. SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenues were 62.2% and 59.2% for 2017 and 2016, respectively. SG&A increased due to a full year of Mangrove expenses and acquisition and integration expenses related to the acquisitions of ADS, CPI, PMSI, PSNW, iSystems and Compass in 2017, as well as increased headcount as we continue to expand and increased selling costs as we focus on expanding recognition of our brand. We may incur significant additional legal expenses and/or professional services-related expenses in the future if we pursue further acquisitions of products or businesses, even if we ultimately do not consummate any acquisition. Research and Development Expenses Research and development (R&D) expenses were $4.5 million in 2017 and $2.9 million in 2016, an increase of $1.6 million or 53.9%. R&D expenses as a percentage of revenues were 8.2% and 8.2% for 2017 and 2016, respectively. The $1.6 million increase is primarily due to an increase in technical resources, including increased headcount, from our acquisition of iSystems in 2017. Asure successfully executed its 2017 stated R&D goals of platform, co-innovation and mobility development within our product suites via a mix of capital projects and expansion of the core product and engineering resources. Asure was able to deliver the port to a unified and integrated platform between its AsureHCM and AsureForce products, as well develop enhanced mobile solutions in both its AsureSpace and AsureForce products. With the acquisition of iSystems and its Evolution product in May 2017, R&D efforts saw the fulfillment of moving the former Payroll centric solution to a fully integrated HCM suite for the SMB market. 30 Table of Contents Key product highlights include: AsureHCM: Port to integrated Amazon AWS infrastructure; development of Job Board and Application Tracking (ATS) integration; Port of COBRA product set to integrate with AsureHCM platform AsureForce: Phase one move to Amazon AWS infrastructure and expanded HCM integration; New mobile employee self-service product; DIY payroll integration tool AsureSpace: Expanded integration options with Crestron Fusion, Cisco WebEx and Microsoft Exchange; Expanded partnership footprint with additional Digital Workplace hardware vendors utilizing our open API based platform. EvolutionHCM: Previously noted transformation from Payroll to Integration HCM platform Asure will continue the integration and platform development theme in 2018, again with a mix of capital and core engineering efforts. Where 2017 focused on the mid-market integration, 2018 will see the same elements of integration with our SMB and Channel product, Evolution, providing a single vendor solution for our channel partners and direct sales alike. During 2018 Asure will continue to make investments in the mid-market and global solution sets, including a unified reporting solution that provides substantive value to the vision of a single vendor, single platform solution for data and analytics. Asure sees a continued expansion of the use of this integrated data into future artificial intelligence and business intelligence areas, fulfilling the vision of our People Success Platform to drive the Workplace of the future. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization expenses in 2017 were $4.5 million, an increase of $2.2 million, or 98.7%, as compared to $2.3 million in 2016. Amortization expenses as a percentage of revenues were 8.2% and 6.3% for 2017 and 2016, respectively. This increase is due to the amortization related to our acquisitions in 2017. Other Income and Loss Other Loss was $4.6 million for the year ended 2017 as compared to $2.0 million in the year ended 2016. Other Loss in 2017 and 2016 was primarily comprised of interest expense. The increase is primarily comprised of an increase in interest expense due to the higher debt balances resulting from our Restated Credit Agreement and debt incurred in connection with our acquisitions. Income Taxes At December 31, 2017, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $130.1 million, Federal R&D credit carryforwards of approximately $5.6 million and alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of approximately $123,000. The net operating loss and Federal R&D credit carryforwards will expire in varying amounts from 2018 through 2037, if not utilized. Minimum tax credit carryforwards carry forward indefinitely. Income tax expense decreased from $189,000 in 2016 to $96,000 in 2017, a $93,000, or 49.0%, decrease. These figures represent an effective tax rate of 1.7% and 24.1% in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Income tax expense is primarily due to deferred taxes on the amortization of goodwill for tax purposes and the results of foreign operations. As a result of our various acquisitions in prior years, utilization of the net operating losses and credit carryforwards may be subject to a substantial annual limitation due to the change in ownership provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The annual limitation may result in the expiration of net operating losses before utilization. Due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of realizing the benefits of our favorable tax attributes in future tax returns, we have placed a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax asset, exclusive of goodwill. During 2017, we decreased the valuation allowance by approximately $14.7 million due primarily to operations, acquisitions and the impact of changes in tax law. We consider the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries permanently reinvested and, accordingly, we have not provided for U.S. federal or state income taxes thereon. Net Income (Loss) Net loss was $5.7 million in 2017. Net loss was $972,000 in 2016. The increase in net loss was $4.8 million, or 488.7%. Net loss as a percentage of total revenues was 10.5% and 2.7% in 2017 and 2016, respectively. 31 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES At and for the year ended December 31, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Working capital $ 17,026 $ 4,207 Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments 27,792 12,767 Cash used in operating activities (36 ) (2,012 ) Cash used in investing activities (58,492 ) (18,775 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 73,541 32,299 Working Capital . We had working capital of $17.0 million at December 31, 2017, an increase of $12.8 million from $4.2 million at December 31, 2016. We attribute the increase in our working capital primarily to an increase in cash and cash equivalents of $15.7 million as a result of our June 2017 public stock offering and our May 2017 refinancing of our amended credit agreement, offset by our 2017 acquisitions and net cash used by operations. Accounts receivable also increased $4.1 million due to an increase in revenue, offset by an increase in short term notes payable of $3.4 million. Working capital at December 31, 2017 includes $13.1 million of short term deferred revenue, an increase from short term deferred revenue of $9.3 million at December 31, 2016. Our 2017 acquisitions contributed $1.3 million of current deferred revenue at December 31, 2017. Deferred revenue is an obligation to perform future services. We expect that deferred revenue will convert to future revenue as we perform our services, but this does not represent future payments. Deferred revenue can vary based on seasonality, expiration of initial multi-year contracts and deals that are billed after implementation rather than in advance of service delivery. Operating Activities . Cash used in operating activities was $36,000 in 2017 as compared to cash used in operating activities of $2.0 million in 2016. The $36,000 of cash used in operating activities during 2017 was primarily driven by net income (after adjustment for non-cash items) of $1.4 million and an increase in deferred revenue and other liabilities of $2.6 million and $1.6 million, respectively, offset by an increase in accounts receivable and other assets of $4.1 million and $1.3 million, respectively, and a decrease in accounts payable of $254,000. The $2.0 million of cash used in operating activities during 2016 was primarily driven by net income (after adjustment for non-cash items) of $3.2 million and an increase in other liabilities of $466,000, offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $3.4 million, and decreases in deferred revenue and accounts payable of $1.7 million and $1.1 million, respectively. Investing Activities . Cash used in investing activities during 2017 was $58.5 million. The cash used in investing activities in 2017 was primarily comprised of the acquisitions of $45.4 million and the net change in funds held for clients of $10.2 million. Cash used in investing activities during 2016 was $18.8 million. The cash used in investing activities in 2016 was primarily comprised of the acquisition of Mangrove in the first quarter of 2016 of $12.0 million and the net change in funds held for clients of $6.6 million. Financing Activities . Cash provided by financing activities during 2017 was $73.5 million. We recognized net proceeds from the issuance of common stock of $27.8 million in an underwritten public offering in June 2017, as well as incurred $45.8 million of indebtedness in connection with the 2017 acquisitions. This was offset by payments on notes payable of $9.0 million and debt financing fees of $1.4 million. In connection with the public offering, we issued 2,185,000 shares of common stock, including 285,000 shares of common stock pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters over-allotment option, at the public offering price of $13.50 per share. Cash provided by financing activities during 2016 was $32.3 million. We borrowed $18.4 million, offset by note payable payments of $7.2 million. Our stock issuances through our public stock offering and other stock issuances yielded $15.2 million in proceeds. Sources of Liquidity . As of December 31, 2017, Asures principal sources of liquidity consisted of approximately $27.8 million of cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations of our business over the next twelve months, and $5.0 million available for borrowing under our Wells Fargo revolver. Based on current internal projections, we believe that we have and/or will generate sufficient cash for our operational needs, including any required debt payments, for at least the next twelve months. However, we will need to raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to grow our existing software operations and to seek additional strategic acquisitions in the near future. Subsequent to December 31, 2017, we used $25.3 million of cash on hand to fund the three acquisitions completed in January 2018. In addition, we have subordinated note payables in the aggregate principal amounts of $2.2 million that become due on April 30, 2018 and $2.8 million due May 25, 2018. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our management team is focused on growing our existing software operations and is also seeking additional strategic acquisitions for the near future. At present, we plan to fund any future acquisition with existing cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from future operations, funds under credit facilities, and cash generated from the issuance of equity or debt securities. 32 Table of Contents Shelf Registration In June 2016, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to sell from time to time up to $30.0 million of our common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt securities, subscription rights and units. In July 2016, the shelf registration statement was declared effective by the SEC. Under this shelf registration statement, in December 2016 we completed an underwritten public offering of 1,949,250 shares of common stock at the public offering price of $8.00 per share, which includes 254,250 shares sold pursuant to the underwriters full exercise of their over-allotment option. We received net proceeds of approximately $14.4 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and other estimated offering expenses. In February 2017, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC to sell, from time to time, in one or more offerings, up to $75.0 million of our common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt securities, subscription rights, and units. In April 2017, the shelf registration statement was declared effective by the SEC. Under this shelf registration statement, in June 2017 we completed an underwritten public offering of 2,185,000 shares of common stock at the public offering price of $13.50 per share, which includes 285,000 shares sold pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters over-allotment option. We recognized net proceeds of $27.8 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and other estimated offering expenses. These registration statements are intended to provide us with flexibility to access the public capital markets in order to pursue our growth strategies. Credit Agreement In March 2014, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders that are party thereto. The Credit Agreement contains customary events of default, including, among others, payment defaults, covenant defaults, judgment defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency events, cross defaults to certain indebtedness, incorrect representations or warranties, and change of control. In some cases, the defaults are subject to customary notice and grace period provisions. In March 2014 and in connection with the Credit Agreement, we and our wholly-owned active subsidiaries entered into a Guaranty and Security Agreement with Wells Fargo Bank. Under the Guaranty and Security Agreement, we and each of our wholly-owned active subsidiaries have guaranteed all obligations under the Credit Agreement and granted a security interest in substantially all of our and our subsidiaries assets. The Credit Agreement provided for a term loan in the amount of $15.0 million maturing in March 2019 and a revolving loan commitment in the aggregate amount of up to $3.0 million. The outstanding principal amount of the revolving loan is due and payable in March 2019. Additionally, the Credit Agreement provided for a $10.0 million uncommitted incremental term loan facility to support permitted acquisitions. In March 2017, we amended our Credit Agreement to, among other things, obtain an additional term loan in the amount of $5.0 million. In the first quarter of 2017, we used the proceeds of the additional term loan to repay a portion of all amounts outstanding under the secured subordinated note we issued in connection with the Mangrove acquisition. In May 2017, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the Restated Credit Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, N. A., as administrative agent, and the lenders that are parties thereto, amending and restating the terms of the Credit Agreement dated as of March 2014, as amended. The Restated Credit Agreement provides for an increase in the aggregate principal amount of total commitments from approximately $32.7 million to $75.0 million. This increase includes an additional term loan commitment of approximately $40.3 million and an additional revolver commitment of $2.0 million. The term loan consists of a $35.0 million First Out Loan Obligation funded by Wells Fargo as administrative agent, and a $35.0 million Last Out Loan Obligation funded by Wells Fargos syndicate partner, Goldman Sachs. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, $0 was outstanding and $5.0 million and $3.0 million, respectively, were available for borrowing under the revolver. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, $68.25 million and $24.7 million, respectively, were outstanding under the term loan. The Restated Credit Agreement amends the applicable margin rates for determining the interest rate payable on outstanding First Out and Last Out loan obligations as follows: Leverage Ratio First Out Base Rate Margin First Out LIBOR Rate Margin Last Out Base Rate Margin Last Out LIBOR Rate Margin 2.00 Percentage Points 3.00 Percentage Points 7.00 Percentage Points 8.00 Percentage Points > 3.25:1 2.50 Percentage Points 3.50 Percentage Points 7.50 Percentage Points 8.50 Percentage Points 33 Table of Contents The outstanding principal amount of the term loan is payable in equal installments of $875,000 beginning on September 30, 2017 and the last day of each fiscal quarter thereafter. The outstanding principal balance and all accrued and unpaid interest on the term loan is due on May 25, 2022. The Restated Credit Agreement also: amends our leverage ratio covenant to increase the maximum ratio to 5.75:1 at June 30, 2017, stepping down to 3.25:1 at June 30, 2020 and each quarter-end thereafter; amends our fixed charge coverage ratio to be not less than 1.35:1 at June 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017, not less than 1.45:1 at December 31, 2017, and not less than 1.50:1 beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2018 and each quarter-end thereafter; and adds a Trailing Twelve Months (TTM) recurring revenue covenant, requiring software-as-a-service, hardware-as-a-service and cloud subscription and maintenance support revenues to be at least $41.0 million at June 30, 2017 and stepping up to $60.5 million at June 30, 2022 and each quarter-end thereafter. The Restated Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, limitations with respect to debt, liens, fundamental changes, sale of assets, prepayment of debt, investments, dividends and transactions with affiliates. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants and all payments remain current under the Restated Credit Agreement. We expect to be in compliance or be able to obtain compliance through debt repayments with available cash on hand or as we expect to generate from the ordinary course of operations over the next twelve months. See Note 6 - Notes Payable in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information about the Credit Agreement and Guaranty and Security Agreement. We cannot assure that we can grow our cash balances or limit our cash consumption and thus maintain sufficient cash balances for our planned operations or future acquisitions. Future business demands may lead to cash utilization at levels greater than recently experienced. We will need to raise additional capital in the future in order to grow our existing software operations and to seek additional strategic acquisitions in the near future. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to raise additional capital on acceptable terms, or at all. Subject to the foregoing, management believes that we have sufficient capital and liquidity to fund and cultivate the growth of our current and future operations for at least the next twelve months and to maintain compliance with the terms of our debt agreements and related covenants or to obtain compliance through debt repayments made with our available cash on hand or anticipated for receipt in the ordinary course of operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We have prepared our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and included the accounts of Asures wholly owned subsidiaries. We have eliminated all significant intercompany transactions and balances in the consolidation. Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of the assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at fiscal year end and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the fiscal year. The more significant estimates made by management include the valuation allowance for our gross deferred tax asset, lease impairment, useful lives of fixed assets, the determination of the fair value of our long-lived assets and the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed during acquisitions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that management believes are reasonable under the given circumstances. These estimates could be materially different under different conditions and assumptions. Additionally, the actual amounts could differ from the estimates made. Management periodically evaluates estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements for continued reasonableness. We prospectively apply appropriate adjustments, if any, to our estimates based upon our periodic evaluation. We believe the following are our critical accounting policies: 34 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition Our revenues consist of software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings, time-based software subscriptions, and perpetual software license sale arrangements that also, typically, include hardware, maintenance/support and professional services elements. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectability is probable. Software and software-related elements are recognized in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 985-605 Software Revenue Recognition . In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09). ASU 2014-09 supersedes a majority of existing revenue recognition guidance under US GAAP, and requires companies to recognize revenue when it transfers goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which a company expects to be entitled and is effective date for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. See Note 2 Significant Account Policies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more detail on the estimated impact of this accounting pronouncement. Non-software revenue elements are recognized in accordance with ASC 605-25 Revenue Recognition Multiple-Element Arrangements. Since we currently offer our software solutions under either a perpetual license, time-based subscription or SaaS model, revenue recognition timing varies based on which form of software rights the customer purchases. SaaS arrangements and time-based software subscriptions typically have an initial term ranging from one to three years and are renewable on an annual basis. A typical SaaS arrangement will also include hardware, setup and implementation services. We allocate the value of the SaaS arrangement to each separate unit of accounting based on vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of selling price, when it exists, third-party evidence of selling price for like services or best estimated selling price. Revenue allocated to the SaaS/software subscription element is recognized ratably over the non-cancellable term of the SaaS/subscription service. Revenue allocated to other units of accounting included in the arrangement is recognized as outlined in the paragraphs below. We typically sell perpetual software licenses in multiple-element arrangements that include hardware, maintenance/support and professional services. Software license revenues, determined under the residual method, are generally recognized on the date we deliver the product to the customer if VSOE of fair value exists for all undelivered elements of the software arrangement. If VSOE of fair value does not exist for an undelivered element, we defer the entire software arrangement and recognize it ratably, over the remaining non-cancellable maintenance term, after we have delivered all other undelivered elements. We base VSOE of fair value for our maintenance, training and installation services on the prices charged for these services when sold separately. We recognize revenue allocated to hardware, maintenance and services elements included in the arrangement as outlined below. Hardware devices sold to customers (typically time clock, LCD panel and other peripheral devices) are not essential to the functionality of the software and as such are treated as non-software elements for revenue recognition purposes. We recognize hardware revenue when title passes to the customer, typically the date we ship the hardware. If we sell hardware under a hardware-as-a-service (HaaS) arrangement, title to the hardware remains with Asure and we recognize hardware usage revenue ratably over the non-cancellable term of the hardware service delivery, typically one year. Our professional services offerings which typically include data migration, set up, training, and implementation services are also not essential to the functionality of our products, as third parties or customers themselves can perform these services. Set up and implementation services typically occur at the start of the software arrangement while certain other professional services, depending on the nature of the services and customer requirements, may occur several months later. We can reasonably estimate professional services performed for a fixed fee and recognize them on a proportional performance basis. We recognize revenue for professional services engagements billed on a time and materials basis as we deliver the services. We recognize revenues on all other professional services engagements upon the earlier of the completion of the services deliverable or the expiration of the customers right to receive the service. We recognize maintenance/support revenues ratably over the non-cancellable term of the support agreement. Initial maintenance/support terms are typically one to three years and are renewable on an annual basis. We do not recognize revenue for agreements with rights of return, refundable fees, cancellation rights or substantive acceptance clauses until these return, refund or cancellation rights have expired or acceptance has occurred. Our arrangements with resellers do not allow for any rights of return. Deferred revenue includes amounts received from customers in excess of revenue we recognize, and is comprised of deferred maintenance, service and other revenue. We recognize deferred revenues when we complete the service and over the terms of the arrangements, primarily ranging from one to three years. 35 Table of Contents Intangible Assets and Goodwill We record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition, with any excess purchase price recorded as goodwill. Valuation of intangible assets and in-process research and development entails significant estimates and assumptions including, but not limited to, estimating future cash flows from product sales, developing appropriate discount rates, estimating probability rates for the continuation of customer relationships and renewal of customer contracts and approximating the useful lives of the intangible assets acquired. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that we not amortize intangible assets other than goodwill with an indefinite life until we determine their life as finite. We must amortize all other intangible assets over their useful lives. We currently amortize our acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from one to nine years. Impairment of Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC 350, we review and evaluate our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that we may not recover their net book value. When such factors and circumstances exist, including those noted above, we compare the assets carrying amounts against the estimated undiscounted cash flows we expect to generate with those assets over their estimated useful lives. If the carrying amounts are greater than the undiscounted cash flows, we estimate the fair values of those assets by discounting the projected cash flows. We record any excess of the carrying amounts over the fair values as impairments in that fiscal period. There has been no impairment of intangible assets and long-lived assets for the periods presented. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price in a business combination over the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter of each year, and between annual tests if indicators of potential impairment exist, using a fair-value-based approach. There has been no impairment of goodwill for the periods presented. See Notes 4 and 5 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding goodwill. Income Taxes We account for income taxes using the liability method under ASC 740, Accounting for Income Taxes, which requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events included in the financial statements. Under the liability method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect in the years in which we expect the differences to reverse. We reduce deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that we will not realize some component or all of the deferred tax assets. See Note 2 Significant Account Policies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information about Recent Accounting Pronouncements.