Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as well as in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the future events and trends discussed in this report may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activities, performance, or achievements. The information provided in this Form 10-K is based on facts and circumstances known as of the date of this report, and any forward-looking statements made by us in this Form 10-K speak only as of the date on which they are made. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this report or to conform these statements to actual results or revised expectations. Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those highlighted in the section titled Risk Factors. These risks include, among others, the following: If our security measures, or those of our third-party data center hosting facilities, cloud computing platform providers or third-party service partners are compromised or breached, or if personal information of our clients or their employees is accessed or obtained, our services and HCM solution may be perceived as not being secure, our brand could be damaged, our services may be disrupted, and customers may curtail or stop using our services, all of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses, and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions; We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and may identify additional material weaknesses in the future, fail to remediate the identified material weakness, or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, all of which, if they occur, may result in material misstatements of our financial statements; We have a history of losses, and we cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability; Privacy concerns and laws and other regulations may limit the effectiveness of our applications and adversely affect our business; We have acquired and plan to continue to acquire from time to time our Reseller Partners businesses that have licensed our proprietary software and other complementary businesses either through stock acquisition or through an asset purchase of their client service agreements and related assets. These acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, result in unknown or unforeseen liabilities, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and ownership and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition; Our failure to comply with existing laws and regulations may result in adverse effects on our business, service and financial condition and failure to comply with licensing requirements or changing laws and regulations through modifications, developments, and enhancements to our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations; Our software and solutions may not function adequately, which could damage our reputation and give rise to claims against us, which could harm our business and operating results; We depend on data centers and computing infrastructure operated by third parties, and any disruption in these operations or changes of these providers could adversely affect our business; 1 Table of Contents We may be required to incur debt to meet future capital requirements of our business. Should we be required to incur debt, the restrictions imposed by the terms of such debt could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to respond to changes in our business; Volatility and weakness in bank and capital markets may adversely affect credit availability and related financing costs for us; We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all; We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives, including incremental requirements as a result in a change of filer status. We may fail to comply with the rules that apply to such public companies, which could result in sanctions or other penalties that would harm our business; A portion of our accounts receivable is related tax processing services to that enabled businesses to file for Employee Retention Tax Credits under the CARES Act. Such regulations were originally expected to expire in 2024 and 2025, which, following their expiration, will adversely impact our revenues on a comparative basis. Further, abuses of this program may require government intervention that could adversely affect the timing of our cash collections; If we are unable to release timely updates to reflect changes in wage and hour laws, tax, privacy, benefit and other laws and regulations that our products help our clients address, the market acceptance of our products may be adversely affected and our revenues could decline; If we are not able to develop enhancements and new features to our products, keep pace with technological developments or respond to future technologies, our business, operating results and financial results will be adversely affected; Our business depends substantially on clients renewing their agreements with us, purchasing additional products from us or adding additional users. If our customers do not renew their agreements with us or reduce the services purchased, our revenue will decline and our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we cannot accurately predict subscription renewals or upgrade rates, we may not meet our revenue targets, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock; Client funds that we hold in trust are subject to market, interest rate, credit and liquidity risk. The loss of these funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected; Our clients could have insufficient funds to cover payments we have made on their behalf or credit that we have extended to them in connection with the services that we have provided, resulting in financial loss to us; If the banks that currently provide ACH and wire transfers fail to properly transmit ACH, exit the payroll industry, or terminate their relationship with us or limit our ability to process funds or we are not able to increase our ACH capacity with our existing and new banking partners, our ability to process funds on behalf of our clients and our financial results and liquidity could be adversely affected; Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition; If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our competitive advantage and brand could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, generate reduced revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights; We may be sued by third parties for infringement of their proprietary rights; Even if demand for HCM products and services increases generally, there is no guarantee that demand for SaaS products generally or our products in particular will increase to a corresponding degree, or at all; We may be subject to claims, lawsuits, governmental investigations and other proceedings that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; Issues in the use of artificial intelligence (AI) in our HCM products and services may result in reputational harm or liability to us; Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported operating results; The use of open source software in our applications may expose us to risks and harm our intellectual property rights; We may be adversely affected by failure of third parties in providing their services; Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited; Inability to maintain the third-party licensed software we use in our applications at the current costs could result in increased costs or reduced service levels, which could adversely affect our business; Evolving regulation of the Internet, changes in the infrastructure underlying the Internet or interruptions in Internet access may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition by increasing our expenditures and causing client dissatisfaction; The adoption of new or interpretation of existing money service business statutes and money transmitter statutes at the federal and state level could subject us to additional regulation and related expense and necessitate changes to our business model; 2 Table of Contents If we lose key personnel, including key management personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel as needed in the future, it could disrupt the operation of our business, delay our product development, harm our growth efforts and have a material adverse effect on our business; Some of our key components are procured from a single or limited number of suppliers. Thus, we are at risk of shortage, price increases, tariffs, changes, delay, or discontinuation of key components, which could disrupt and materially and adversely affect our business; Adverse tax laws or regulations could be enacted, or existing laws could be applied to us or our clients, which could increase the costs of our services and adversely impact our business; Political, economic and social factors may materially adversely affect our business and financial results; Sales, or the potential for sales, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, including sales done by us in connection with financing activities or by our existing stockholders, could cause our stock price to fall; Our common stock has traded in low volumes and we cannot predict whether an active trading market for our common stock will develop; Our stock price has been, and likely will continue to be, volatile; We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, and you must rely on increases in the market price of our common stock for returns on equity investment; Our stockholder rights plan, or poison pill, includes terms and conditions which could discourage a takeover or other transaction that stockholders may consider favorable; Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law, and our stockholder rights plan could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and may lead to entrenchment of our management and board of directors; and Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist stockholders, and such activism could impact the trading value of our securities. ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Asure is a provider of cloud-based Human Capital Management (HCM) software solutions delivered as Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) to businesses of all sizes. We offer human resources (HR) tools necessary to build a thriving workforce, provide the resources to stay compliant with dynamic federal, state, and local tax jurisdictions and their respective labor laws, freeing cash flows so these businesses can spend their financial capital on growing their businesses rather than administrative overhead that can impede growth. Our solutions also provide new ways for employers to connect with their employees in order to enhance their relationships with their talent. Asures HCM suite (Asure HCM) includes Payroll & Tax solutions, Recruiting, HR compliance and services, Time & Attendance software, Insurance and Benefits Administration, and data integrations that enable employers and their employees to enhance efficiencies and take advantage of value-added solutions, which we refer to as AsureMarketplace. AsureMarketplace automates interactions between our HCM systems with third-party providers to enhance efficiency, improve accuracy and to extend the range of services offered to employers and their employees. Our approach to HR compliance services leverages technology and on-demand content to enhance scalability and efficiency while prioritizing client interactions. We offer our services directly and indirectly through our network of Reseller Partners. From recruitment to retirement, our solutions help more than 100,000 clients across the United States. Approximately 20% of our clients are direct with the remaining balance indirect, as they have contracts with Reseller Partners who white label our solutions. We strive to be the most trusted HCM resource. Our solutions solve three primary challenges that prevent businesses from growing: HR complexity, allocation of human and financial capital, and the ability to build great teams. We have and will continue to invest in research and development to expand our solutions. Our solutions reduce the administrative burden on employers and increase employee productivity while managing the employment lifecycle. The Asure HCM suite includes seven product lines: Asure Payroll & Tax, Asure Tax Management Solutions, AsureRecruiting, Asure HR Compliance, Asure Time & Attendance, Asure Insurance and Benefits Administration, and AsureMarketplace. We were incorporated in 1985 as a Delaware corporation and our principal executive offices are located at 405 Colorado Street, Suite 1800, Austin, Texas 78701. Our telephone number is (512) 437-2700 and our website is www.asuresoftware.com. Information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, however we do post information on the investor relations page of our website that we believe may be of interest to our investors. 3 Table of Contents We make available free of charge, on or through our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials or furnish them to the SEC. Reports and other information we file with the SEC may also be viewed at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. SOLUTIONS Our solutions are primarily cloud-based and delivered as SaaS, technology-enabled HR services, and hardware (time clocks and data collection devices) as one-time purchases or a Hardware-as-a-Service (HaaS) offering. Payroll and Tax. Asure Payroll & Tax is an integrated solution that provides a foundation for our clients digital HR strategy. We simplify payroll and automate and ensure compliance with the changing nature of regulations associated with payroll and taxes in all U.S. jurisdictionsfrom wages, benefits, overtime, and garnishments to tips, direct deposits, the Fair Labor Standard Act and federal, state, and local payroll taxes. Features include payroll taxes driven by up-to-date federal, state, and local tax tables and filing in a timely and accurate manner; adhering to annual filing requirements for Form W-2 and forms mandated by the Affordable Care Act (ACA); general ledger integration; managed garnishments and employee self-service. Additionally, self-service tools empower employees to manage their payroll and personal data, including AsurePay, a payroll debit card that offers competitive banking features with free on-demand pay capabilities. With our self-service tools, employees can access pay stubs, update direct deposit preferences, track earnings in real time, and manage their financial information efficiently. Tax Management Solutions. Asure provides innovative payroll tax processing software and service solutions for the payroll service industry and corporate employers. With several scalable software and service options, from traditional full- service outsourcing to SaaS solutions, the extensive product line offers companies the ability to select a payroll tax solution that suits their needs. Human Resource Compliance. Asure handles HR complexities that businesses face, including talent management and compliance with federal, state, and local regulations. Asure provides three core levels of HR services: (i) HR support, which provides an on-demand HR resource library, phone and email support for any HR issues and compliance and policy updates; (ii) Strategic HR, which includes all the capabilities of HR Support while also providing more in-depth support for strategic HR decision making. This service is designed specifically for managers, helping them stay compliant with employment regulations and enhance their effectiveness in workforce planning, performance management, and compliance strategies; and (iii) Total HR, which includes all the capabilities of Strategic HR while also acting as HR support for frontline employees. This service provides a comprehensive HR outsourcing solution that assists managers in staying compliant and optimizing workforce management while ensuring employees have direct support for HR-related needs. Time and Attendance. Asure Time & Attendance combines with our complementary hardware (time clocks and data collection devices) to provide cost savings and potential return on investment gains in the form of a more strategic use of labor dollars and the elimination of time theft. Mobile time tracking helps executives better understand where and when their employees are working, providing insight into labor schedules and labor costs. With our mobile solution, employees can punch in and out from remote locations, as geo-positioning verifies their physical coordinates. Biometric time clocks, including facial recognition, reduce time theft and assist in the verification of the identities of workers. Automated system notifications, real- time dashboards, and flexible configuration options all work to streamline operations. Finally, employees, supervisors, and executives have real-time access to data and business intelligence to optimize labor costing, improve labor scheduling, and control labor costs. Asure Marketplace. AsureMarketplace automates interactions between our HCM systems with third-party providers to enhance efficiency, improve accuracy, and extend the range of services offered to employers and their employees. Asure has developed a large set of pre-built applications that businesses can connect with and has developed integrations with partners to exchange capabilities and data. These integrations enable businesses to communicate seamlessly and support a wide range of business-to-business and business-to-consumer applications. Business applications can include income verification and earned wage access. 4 Table of Contents Recruiting. AsureRecruitingTM is a robust talent acquisition solution that simplifies and optimizes the hiring process for employers. The platform provides unlimited job postings, locations, users, and applicant storage. Job postings are automatically submitted to major job boards, including Indeed, Google Jobs, ZipRecruiter, Monster, LinkedIn, Facebook, and local or regional boards. AsureRecruitingTM includes automated interview scheduling, an AI-powered job ad writing tool, and a mobile-friendly career site. Employers can track, score, and communicate with applicants efficiently. Additionally, the platform offers U.S.-based support with multiple contact options, including click, chat, and call, and provides free training and onboarding for seamless implementation. Insurance and Benefits Administration. Asure Insurance and Benefits Administration provides employers with an end-to-end solution for managing employee benefits, including health insurance, retirement plans, and other employer-sponsored benefits. Asure Insurance and Benefits Administration is a comprehensive solution that enables businesses to both purchase and manage their employee benefits seamlessly. As a one-stop shop, Asure serves as a Broker of Record (BOR), allowing employers to procure health benefits directly while also streamlining benefits administration. The solution simplifies benefits enrollment, eligibility tracking, regulatory compliance, and carrier integrations. Employers can manage Affordable Care Act (ACA) reporting, COBRA administration, and other compliance obligations effortlessly. By integrating purchasing and administration into a single platform, Asure reduces administrative burdens, improves accuracy, and enhances the employee experience with easy access to benefits and support. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The HCM industry is characterized by continuing improvements in technology, resulting in the frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, changes in client needs, and continual improvement in product performance characteristics. We strive to be cost-effective and timely in enhancing our solutions, developing software that addresses the varied needs of growing businesses and anticipating technological advances while adhering to payroll and HCM industry standards. First-to-market mobile applications are a testament to our success in innovation. Our development teams work with clients and sales and marketing teams to build solutions based on market requirements and client feedback. We also garner inputs from clients, competitive comparisons, and relevant technology innovations. Development teams are staffed with product owners, solutions architects, software engineers, software engineers in test, quality assurance analysts, technical writers, scrum masters and usability designers. Our research and development strategies are based on agile methodologies that foster continuous innovation and improvement with collaboration with stakeholders. The development team enhances the functionality of our solutions through new feature releases, with a focus on solutions delivered as SaaS for businesses that struggle with complexity and Reseller Partners that need back-office tools and scalable infrastructure. We continue to evaluate opportunities for developing new solutions that enable organizations to streamline and automate HR tasks associated with growing their businesses. We seek to simultaneously allow organizations to improve their productivity while reducing the costs associated with those tasks. We continually work to automate processes using Robotic Process Automation (RPA) by developing bots that perform repetitive tasks. These bots act as digital workers that make us more efficient and eliminate errors. Most importantly, our RPA initiatives allow us to quickly take advantage of new opportunities and scale the business without the expense or lead times required to hire additional staff. SALES AND DISTRIBUTION We sell our solutions through both direct and partner models. Prospective clients learn about Asure in a variety of ways, including advertising, website searches, sales calls, public relations, referral channels, direct marketing, and social media. When prospective clients show an interest in Asure, they are connected with a sales representative, who works to close the sale, via Asures web site, phone, or a face-to-face meeting by discussing solutions that meet their needs. We track our marketing and sales activities to provide immediate insights into activities, leads and pipeline opportunities. Our account management teams work with clients to promote and sell additional solutions that are relevant for each client. We supplement our direct sales efforts with partner programs. By working with partners, we gain access to opportunities in various geographic and industry niches. Asure has two distinct partners: Reseller Partners and Referral Partners. 5 Table of Contents Reseller Partners. Reseller Partners pay us recurring license fees to white label our solutions while providing value-added services to their clients (our indirect clients). There are generally two types of Reseller Partners: regional payroll providers and trusted advisors (e.g., CPAs, regional banks, and benefit brokers). Regional payroll providers typically focus on a specific geographic area or industry. They have proven to be attractive alternatives for companies payroll and HCM needs. Since trusted advisors are relied on by entrepreneurs and executives to advise on payroll and HR decisions, white labeling our solutions allows them to provide additional solutions directly to their clients. Our Reseller Partners are the primary source of our acquisitions. Because they white label our solutions, technology integration risk is lessened. By acquiring Reseller Partners, we gain a presence in specific geographic (typically less densely populated U.S. metropolitan cities) and industry niches. These acquisitions help Asure gain scale by assuming all of the Reseller Partners revenue rather than a recurring licensing fee. Reseller Partners can continue to license our solutions with the opportunity to expand their available solutions, or they can come under the Asure umbrella. Referral Partners. Referral Partners are typically trusted advisors or referral agents that provide us with client leads but do not resell our solutions. Since companies rely on their trusted advisors and agents to guide them in selecting payroll and HCM solutions, we have found this to be a fruitful source of leads. Referral Partners provide qualified leads that convert to clients at a higher rate than non-referral leads. We have been successful in nurturing some Referral Partners to become Reseller Partners over time as the referral relationships develop and they become more comfortable in the HCM space. COMPETITION The market for HCM solutions is competitive and subject to evolving technology, shifting client needs, and regular introduction of new products and services. Our competitors range from regional payroll companies to large, well-established companies with multiple product offerings. Competition in the HCM market is based on product and service quality and reputation, scope of service, application offering and price. Price tends to be the most important factor of competition for our small business clients with fewer employees, while the range of features, implementation, and scalability is more important to our clients with larger businesses. We compete with companies that provide HCM solutions by various means. Many providers continue to deliver legacy enterprise software, but there is increased competition in the delivery of HCM cloud-based solutions by other SaaS providers. Competitors in the HCM market tend to fluctuate and vary by product line. However, Asures main competitors are ADP, Paychex, UKG, Paylocity, Paycor, Paycom, Ceridian, isolved, Gusto, and Time Simplicity. While Asure has the advantage of a flexible, easy to use, cloud-based SaaS-delivered solution that is affordable and has a proven deployment methodology, Asure faces several competitive challenges: Vendors with face-to-face sales contact. In this highly relationship-based sales process, vendors with large, dispersed field-based sales teams who meet and consult with prospects have an advantage. Vendors that approach the market in this manner include ADP, Paychex, Kronos, and Paylocity. National payroll processors with loss-leader products. Large brand and market share payroll processing vendors (such as ADP and Paychex) offer equivalent point solutions at little or no cost to prospects when they sign up for the first few months when in a competitive engagement because the short-term lost revenue is inconsequential compared with the long-term revenue they expect to receive over the next 8 to 10 years with that same client. Some of our competitors, both current and future, may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us and therefore may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements. As a result, they may compete more effectively on price and other terms. Additionally, those competitors may devote greater resources in developing products or in promoting and selling their products to achieve greater market acceptance. We are actively taking measures designed to address competitive challenges, and clients tend to recognize the benefits of working with an established and publicly traded partner versus a start-up or transitional vendor. However, we cannot ensure that we will be able to achieve or maintain a competitive advantage with respect to any of these competitive factors. MARKETING Our marketing strategy relies on a comprehensive integrated plan rooted in our business objectives. Our marketing plan includes four primary objectives: build brand awareness, develop lead generation programs that drive revenue, launch products in a meaningful way, and develop an infrastructure that supports and measures marketing activities. 6 Table of Contents We deploy direct marketing programs to drive awareness, interest and revenue. Marketing vehicles include our web site, organic and paid search, advertising, public relations, direct marketing, events, social media, content marketing, reputation management, and other digital marketing tactics. Our marketing plan addresses growth and retention goals for key target audiences throughout the United States. SALES ENABLEMENT We continue to invest in sales enablement tools, processes, and best-practice training of our sales organization. We have implemented and continue to optimize an end-to-end lead generation process that generates leads from marketing activities and captures and tracks all digital click behavior of the lead in our marketing automation software and customer relation management. We follow up with leads and take all through a qualification process that ends in a closed loop of either won/lost opportunities or leads that get passed back to marketing for further nurturing. Sales Enablement staff support sales with product training, client and prospect demonstrations, and marketing webinars as well as best practices in modern selling that leverages email, social media, and online video. INDUSTRY REGULATION Many of our solutions are designed to assist clients with their compliance with certain U.S. laws and regulations that apply to them, particularly in their capacity as employers under state and federal laws. Failure to comply with existing laws or regulations or to anticipate and incorporate new laws and regulations into our services to remain compliant could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences. Data privacy and security of data is subject to strict regulatory oversight. The laws governing the collection, processing, and storage of personal and sensitive data differ between jurisdictions and differ based on the type of data collected. We collect and process the personal and sensitive information of clients, clients of our Reseller Partners, employees of our clients and Reseller Partners, vendors, and our own employees. In general, data that we process and store includes personally identifying information such as names, addresses, social security numbers, and bank account information. As part of our time and attendance products, data that we process and store includes biometric data. We are, therefore, subject to certain compliance obligations under federal, state, and foreign privacy and data security-related laws. For instance, in the United States, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, including the related data security provisions, applies to our flexible spending account services. We are also subject to federal and state security, privacy, and security breach notification laws with respect to personal and sensitive data as defined under such laws. Such state and federal laws include laws such as the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, as amended and the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act and rules and regulations promulgated under the Federal Trade Commission. Many other states where we operate have recently enacted new data privacy laws, and we expect other jurisdictions to adopt similar laws in the future. These new laws track significant portions of existing laws but include differences that may or may not increase our compliance burden. We have a small number of end-user clients located in the European Union using our time and attendance software. Accordingly, the EUs General Data Protection Regulation applies to the collection, processing, and storage of applicable sensitive and personal data. In some instances, these laws provide for civil penalties for violations and private rights of action for data breaches or other violations of the law. Moreover, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. The future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, or regulations and/or future enforcement actions or investigations could have a materially adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our businesses, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. Failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, or financial condition; or have other adverse consequences. As part of our payroll and payroll tax solutions, we move funds from clients accounts to employees, taxing authorities, and other payees. Over the past few years, a number of state regulators have expanded their interpretation of state money transmission and money service business statutes to include these standard payroll processing activities, necessitating our registering in certain jurisdictions as a money transmitter. We are licensed as a payroll processor in jurisdictions requiring licensure of payroll processors. We are licensed as a money transmitter in jurisdictions that require payroll processors to be licensed under state money transmission laws. Due to the constantly evolving regulatory landscape, we continuously monitor state legislative developments and shifting interpretations of transmission laws, proactively seeking licensure where required. Money transmission activities may be subject to anti-money laundering laws at the state and federal levels. The applicable laws may include: the anti-money laundering and reporting provisions of The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2000, which apply to money services businesses, and all related laws and regulations, including the requirement to verify customer identification and report suspicious activities to applicable authorities. 7 Table of Contents As part of our insurance brokerage solutions, we (and applicable employees) are licensed by the insurance regulators in each of the 50 states and the District of Columbia. Many of our solutions assist clients in complying with certain U.S. laws and regulations that apply to them, particularly in the human resources and employment law areas such as wage payment laws, state payroll tax filing and reporting, employee onboarding, and compliance with the IRS rules governing employers including tax withholdings, payroll tax filing and the preparation of Form W-2. Our HCM solutions assist clients with managing their compliance with other laws, including helping to meet their obligations as a plan sponsor under COBRA; sponsor and administer compliant Flexible Spending Account Plans; and provide compliant Consumer Health Care Plans, such as Health Savings Accounts and Health Reimbursement Accounts. Our Tax Management Solutions also support bulk filing and processing of Employee Retention Tax Credits, which is legislation that is part of the CARES Act. Recent legislation makes it possible that the government could make changes to or revoke the Employee Retention Tax Credit (ERTC) program prior to its scheduled expiration during 2024 and 2025, which may impact future cash collections. TRADEMARKS We have registered Asure Software as a federal trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Asures other core federally registered trademarks include Asure, AsureForce, AsureHCM and Evolution. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2024, we had a total of 635 employees, 621 of which are full-time employees. The headcount by department includes 107 in research and development, 238 in sales and marketing, 233 in customer service and technical support, and 57 in finance, human resources and administration. We continually evaluate and adjust the size and composition of our workforce. We also periodically retain contractors to support our sales and marketing, information technology and administrative functions. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages. Additionally, we augment our workforce capacity in research and development and client service and technical support by contracting for services through third parties. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included throughout this Form 10-K, including those risks identified in Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations represent our view of some of the most important risks we face. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Refer to the cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements at the beginning of Part 1 of this Form 10-K. 8 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS If our security measures, or those of our third-party data center hosting facilities, cloud computing platform providers or third-party service partners are compromised or breached, or if personal information of our clients or their employees is accessed or obtained, our services and HCM solution may be perceived as not being secure, our brand could be damaged, our services may be disrupted, and customers may curtail or stop using our services, all of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses, and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions. Our solution involves the collection, storage and transmission of clients and their employees confidential and proprietary information, including personal identifying information such as social security numbers and HIPAA data with respect to our consumer health care administration services, as well as financial and payroll data. This type of data is highly sensitive and is regulated by laws in all jurisdictions governing the security and privacy of personal information. HCM software is often targeted in cyber-attacks, including computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs and other information security breaches due to the sensitive nature of the data, which could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our clients sensitive data or otherwise disrupt our clients or other third parties business operations. If cybercriminals are able to circumvent our security measures, or if we are unable to detect an intrusion into our systems and contain such intrusion in a reasonable amount of time, our clients sensitive data may be compromised, as well as our intellectual property and other confidential business information. In addition to malicious acts by third parties, unauthorized access to or breach of our systems could occur through employee error or employee malfeasance. Certain of our employees have access to sensitive information about our clients employees. While we conduct background checks of our employees and limit access to systems and data, it is possible that one or more of these individuals may circumvent these controls, resulting in a security breach. Although we have security measures in place to protect client information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, these measures could be breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, third-party or employee malfeasance or otherwise. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, we may not be able to anticipate these techniques and implement adequate preventative or protective measures. In addition, our customers may not have adequate security measures in place to protect their data that is stored on our services. Because we do not control our customers or third-party technology providers, or the processing of such data by third-party technology providers, we cannot ensure the integrity or security of such transmissions or processing. While we currently maintain a cyber liability insurance policy, the coverage limits of our cyber liability insurance may be inadequate or coverage under our cyber liability insurance policy may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our cyber liability insurance policy may not cover all claims made against us, and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert managements attention from our business and operations. Moreover, if a high profile security breach occurs with respect to another SaaS provider in our market, our clients and potential clients may lose trust in the security of the SaaS business model generally, which could adversely impact our ability to retain clients or attract new ones. Any actual or perceived breach of our security could damage our reputation, cause existing clients and resellers to terminate our services, prevent future clients from doing business with us and result in regulatory liability and third-party liability, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and may identify additional material weaknesses in the future, fail to remediate the identified material weakness, or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, all of which, if they occur, may result in material misstatements of our financial statements. In connection with the preparation of our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2024, we have identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. See Item 9A.