Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation as well as in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the future events and trends discussed in this report may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activities, performance, or achievements. The information provided in this Form 10-K is based on facts and circumstances known as of the date of this report, and any forward-looking statements made by us in the Form 10-K speak only as of the date on which they are made. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this report or to conform these statements to actual results or revised expectations. ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL We are a leading provider of cloud-based Human Capital Management (HCM) solutions delivered primarily as Software-as-a-Service (SaaS). We facilitate the growth of small and mid-sized businesses ("SMBs") by helping them (i) stay compliant with ever changing federal, state, and local tax jurisdictions and labor laws, (ii) allocate more resources to support growth rather than back-office overhead that suffocates growth, and (iii) build better teams with skills that get them to the next level. Our vision is to become the most trusted HCM resource to entrepreneurs and managers by helping SMBs grow their businesses. Our solution strategy is driven by three primary challenges that prevent businesses from growing: human resources (HR) complexity, allocation of both human and financial capital, and the ability to build great teams. Our HCM suite, named AsureHCM, includes cloud-based Payroll & Tax, HR, a Time & Attendance software, and HR Services ranging from HR projects to completely outsourcing payroll to HR consulting services. Support and professional services are key elements of our value proposition and overall solution. In addition to state-of-the-art cloud solutions, hosted in Amazon AWS, and regular upgrades and releases, we provide clients easy access to our skilled support team. Our services and support representatives are knowledgeable not just in Asures solutions, but also about best practices and change management strategies in the payroll and HCM industry. Many of our staff have professional certifications in payroll (Certified Payroll Professionals, CPPs) and human resources (Professional in Human Resources, PHR, and Senior Professional in Human Resource, SPHR, certifications). From installation to training and post-live support, our professional services team delivers a proficient client experience on a national scale. Our sales and marketing strategy targets SMBs through both direct and indirect channels. We are focused on less densely populated U.S. metropolitan cities where fewer competitors have a presence. We market directly to SMBs and their trusted advisors, including CPAs, regional banks, and benefits brokers. Through an indirect model, Reseller Partners pay us recurring monthly license fees to white label our solutions while providing value-add HCM services to their clients (our indirect clients). Reseller Partners are comprised of pure-play payroll providers focused on a geographic or industry niches and SMBs trusted advisors (typically CPAs, regional banks, and benefits brokers). 3 Table of Contents We were incorporated in 1985 and our principal executive offices are located at 3700 N. Capital of Texas Highway, Suite 350, Austin, Texas 78746. Our telephone number is (888) 323-8835 and our website is www.asuresoftware.com. Information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge, on or through our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission. SOLUTIONS Our payroll and HCM solutions are designed to help companies grow. Companies use our solutions to more effectively address three primary challenges that prevent businesses from growing: 1. HR complexity - SMBs have a difficult time complying with the continually changing Federal, state and local tax, and labor laws. They also lack the technical staff and resources to maintain software, hosting, and integrations of proprietary payroll and HCM technology stacks. Most SMBs also need their human capital focused on growth (sales, marketing, product development, client service, etc.) rather than back-office staff that adds overhead and unnecessary complexity to running their business. Our solutions are primarily delivered in the cloud with no IT footprint or administrative back-office needed. 2. Allocation of human and financial capital - When it comes to growing a business, people and capital are scarce resources. We enable SMBs to allocate their headcount toward growth rather than IT or administrative back-office staff. Since Asures cloud solutions are primarily delivered as SaaS, clients are able to conserve cash by avoiding large upfront implementation and capital purchase expenses. 3. Building great teams - SMBs struggle to find and attract the talent needed to get to the next level because they lack the resources of large enterprises. Our HR solutions streamline the process of finding and onboarding employees. Furthermore, our HR Services help companies adopt the best practices in recruiting, developing, and retaining key staff. With an emphasis on helping SMBs grow their businesses, our product team aims to create and deliver easy-to-use solutions that help simplify their business, better allocate resources, and build great teams. Our solutions are primarily recurring cloud-based solutions delivered as SaaS and HR services as well as professional services and hardware (time clocks and data collection devices). Payroll and Tax. Asure Payroll & Tax is an integrated cloud-based solution that provides a foundation for our clients digital HR strategy. We automate all the complex and ever changing regulations associated with payroll and taxes in all U.S. jurisdictions - from wages, benefits, overtime, and garnishments to tips, direct deposits, Fair Labor Standard Act and federal, state, and local payroll taxes. Key capabilities include: Compliant payroll taxes; Maintain federal, state, and local tax rate tables; File taxes on clients behalf timely and accurately according to agency regulations; File W-2 federal, states and local employer reporting timely and accurately in compliance with agency regulations; Affordable Care Act (ACA) compliance & reporting; General Ledger integration; Managed garnishments; and Employee self-service. Human Resources. Asure HRs cloud-based functionality handles HR complexities that SMBs face, including employee self-service so employees can access all their information (e.g., pay history and company documents). With Asure HRs dashboard, clients have convenient single-system access to every facet of the employees lifecycle. This solution 4 Table of Contents improves benefits management by syncing to carriers and integrating with employee self-managed enrollment and life-event change adjustments. Key capabilities include: Applicant tracking; Employee on-boarding; Benefits enrollment; Carrier feed connection; and Employee self-service. Time and Attendance. Asure Time & Attendance is primarily cloud based and combines with our complementary hardware (time clocks and data collection devices) to provide cost savings and potential ROI gains in the form of a more strategic use of labor dollars and the elimination of time theft. Mobile time tracking helps executives better understand where and when their employees are working, providing insight into labor schedules and labor costs. With our mobile solution, employees can punch in and out from remote locations, as geo-positioning verifies the physical coordinates. Biometric time clocks, including facial recognition, reduce time theft and assists in the verification of the identities of workers. Automated system notifications, real-time dashboards, and flexible configuration options all work to streamline operations. Finally, employees, supervisors and executives have real-time access to data and business intelligence to optimize labor costing, improve labor scheduling, and control labor costs. Key capabilities include: FLSA and overtime compliance; Manage by exception; Time-off management; Error-Free Processing; and Time collection flexibility. Human Resource Services. Asure provides three core levels of HR services, ranging from a cloud-based online compliance library, to on-demand call center for all HR questions, and to a fully outsourced HR function. Asure also supports discreet functions like payroll administration and the benefit enrollment process. Data Integration. Asures solutions enable data integration with related third-party systems, such as 401(k), benefits, and insurance provider systems. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The HCM industry is characterized by continuing improvements in technology, resulting in the frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, changes in client needs, and continual improvement in product performance characteristics. We strive to be cost-effective and timely in enhancing our innovative, cloud-based solutions, developing new innovative software that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of growing businesses and anticipating technological advances while adhering to payroll and HCM industry standards. First-to-market mobile applications are a testament to our success in innovation. Our development teams work closely with clients and sales and marketing teams to build solutions based on market requirements and client feedback. We also garner inputs from clients, competitive comparisons, and relevant technology innovations. Development teams are staffed with software developers, quality assurance engineers and support specialists. Specific roles include product owners, solutions architects, software engineers, software engineers in test, quality assurance analysts, technical writers, scrum masters, and usability designers. Our research and development strategies are based on agile methodologies that foster continuous innovation and improvement with collaboration with stakeholders. The development team enhances the functionality of our solutions through continual improvement and new feature releases, with a focus on cloud-based solutions delivered as SaaS for growing businesses that struggle with complexity and Reseller Partners that need powerful back-office tools and scalable infrastructure. We continue to evaluate opportunities for developing new solutions that enable organizations to further streamline and 5 Table of Contents automate HR tasks associated with growing their businesses. We seek to simultaneously allow organizations to improve their productivity while reducing the costs associated with those tasks. SALES AND DISTRIBUTION We sell our solutions through both direct and partner models. Prospective clients learn about Asure in a variety of ways, including advertising, web site searches, sales calls, public relations, referral channels, direct marketing, and social media. When prospective clients show an interest in Asure, they are connected with a sales representative, who works to close the sale, via Asures web site, phone, or a face-to-face meeting by discussing solutions that meet their needs. We track our marketing and sales activities to provide immediate insights into activities, leads and pipeline opportunities. Our account management teams also work with clients to promote and sell additional solutions that are relevant for each client. We supplement our direct sales efforts with partner programs. By working with partners, we gain access to opportunities in various geographic and industry niches. Asure has two distinct levels of partners: Reseller Partners and Referral Partners. Reseller Partners. Reseller Partners pay us recurring license fees to white label our solutions and then they focus on providing value-add services to their clients (our indirect clients). There are generally two types of Reseller Partners: regional payroll providers and SMB trusted advisors (CPA, regional banks, and benefit brokers). Regional payroll providers typically focus on a specific geographic area or industry. They have proven to be attractive alternatives for SMBs payroll and HCM needs versus national payroll companies that do not necessarily understand local needs of many businesses. Since trusted advisors are relied on by entrepreneurs and executives at SMBs to advise on payroll and HR decisions, white labeling our solutions allows them to provide additional solutions directly to their clients. This deepens their client relationships and grows their revenue. Asures Reseller Partners are also the primary source of Asures acquisitions. Since they already white label Asures solutions, technology integration risk is lessened. By acquiring Reseller Partners, we gain a presence in specific geographic (typically less densely populated U.S. metropolitan cities) and industry niches. These acquisitions help Asure gain scale by assuming all of the Reseller Partner's revenue instead of just a recurring licensing fee (which is typically a small percentage of their total revenue). Reseller Partners can continue to license our solutions with the opportunity to expand their available solutions, or they can come under the Asure umbrella. Referral Partners. Referral Partners are typically the aforementioned trusted advisors (e.g., regional banks, CPAs, and benefit brokers) that provide us with SMB leads but do not resell our solutions. Since SMBs rely on their trusted advisors to guide them in selecting payroll and HCM solutions, we have found this to be a fruitful source of leads. Referral Partners provide qualified leads that convert to clients at a higher rate than non-referral leads. We have been successful in nurturing some Referral Partners to become Reseller Partners over time as the referral relationships develop and they become more comfortable in the HCM space. COMPETITION The market for HCM solutions is rapidly evolving, highly competitive and subject to evolving technology, shifting client needs, and frequent introduction of new products and services. Our competitors range from regional payroll companies to large, well-established companies with multiple product offerings. Competition in the HCM market is primarily based on product and service quality and reputation, scope of service, application offering and price. Price tends to be the most important factor of competition for our small business clients with fewer employees, while the range of features, implementation, and scalability is more important to our larger businesses. We compete with companies that provide HCM solutions by various means. Many providers continue to deliver legacy enterprise software, but there is increased competition in the delivery of HCM cloud-based solutions by other Saas providers. Competitors in the HCM market tend to fluctuate, however, Asures main competitors are ADP, Paychex, Kronos, Paylocity, Paycor, Paycom, Ceridian, Namely, and Gusto. Primary competitors to Asure Time & Attendance include Kronos, Paychex, ADP, Replicon and Time Simplicity. While Asure has the advantage of a flexible, easy to use, cloud-based, SaaS-delivered model, affordability and proven deployment methodology, Asure faces several competitive challenges: 6 Table of Contents Vendors with face-to-face sales contact. In this highly relationship-based sales process, vendors with large, dispersed field-based sales teams who meet and consult with prospects have an advantage. Vendors that approach the market in this manner include ADP, Paychex, Kronos, and Paylocity. National payroll processors with loss-leader products. Large brand and market share payroll processing vendors (such as ADP and Paychex) offer equivalent point solutions at little or no cost to prospects when they sign up for the first few months when in a competitive engagement because the short-term lost revenue is inconsequential compared with the long-term revenue they expect to receive over the next 8 to 10 years with that same client. Some of our competitors, both current and future, may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us and therefore may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements. As a result, they may compete more effectively on price and other terms. Additionally, those competitors may devote greater resources in developing products or in promoting and selling their products to achieve greater market acceptance. We are actively taking measures designed to address competitive challenges, and clients tend to recognize the benefits of working with an established and publicly-traded partner versus a start-up or transitional vendor. However, we cannot ensure that we will be able to achieve or maintain a competitive advantage with respect to any of the competitive factors. MARKETING Our marketing strategy relies on a comprehensive integrated plan rooted in our business objectives. Our marketing plan includes four primary objectives: 1) build brand awareness, 2) develop lead generation programs that drive revenue, 3) launch products in a meaningful way, and 4) develop an infrastructure that supports and measures marketing activities. We deploy multi-faceted, omni-channel direct marketing programs to drive awareness, interest and revenue. Marketing vehicles include our web site, organic and paid search, advertising, public relations, direct marketing, events, social media, content marketing, reputation management, and other digital marketing tactics. Our marketing plan addresses growth and retention goals for key target audiences throughout the United States. SALES ENABLEMENT We continue to invest in sales enablement tools, processes, and best-practice training of our sales organization. We have implemented and continue to optimize an end-to-end lead generation process that generates leads from marketing activities, captures and tracks all digital click behavior of the lead in our marketing automation software and CRM, follow-up and take all leads through a qualification and disposition process that ends in a closed loop of either won/lost opportunities or leads that get passed back to marketing for further nurturing. Sales Enablement staff support sales with product training, client and prospect demonstrations, and marketing webinars as well as best practices in modern selling that leverages email, social media, and online video. INDUSTRY REGULATION Our business and solutions are subject to a wide range of complex laws and regulations. In addition, many of our solutions are designed to assist clients with their compliance with certain U.S. laws and regulations that apply to them, particularly in their capacity as employers under state and federal laws. Failure to comply with existing laws or regulations or anticipate and incorporate into our services new laws and regulations so that our services remain compliant could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences. Data privacy and security of data is subject to strict regulatory oversight and the laws governing the collection, processing and storage of personal and sensitive data differs from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and even differs based on the type of data collected, such as biometric data. We collect and process the personal and sensitive information of clients, clients of our Reseller Partners, employees of our clients and Reseller Partners, vendors and our own employees. Data that we process and store includes personally identifying information such as names, addresses, social security numbers, bank account information, and in the case of our time and attendance products, biometric data. We are therefore subject to compliance obligations under federal, state and foreign privacy and data security-related laws. For instance, in the United States, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, including the related security provisions, applies to our flexible spending account services. We are also subject to federal and state security, privacy and security breach notification laws with respect to personal and sensitive data as defined under such laws. Such state and federal laws include laws such as the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, as amended and the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act and rules and regulations promulgated under the Federal Trade Commission. We have a small number of end user clients located in the European Union using our time and attendance software and accordingly, the EUs General Data Protection Regulation applies to the collection, processing and storage of applicable sensitive and personal data. In some instances, laws provide for civil penalties for violations as well as private rights of action for data breaches or other violations of the law. Moreover, enforcement actions and 7 Table of Contents investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. The future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations and/or future enforcement actions or investigations could have a materially adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our businesses and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. Failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences. As part of our payroll and payroll tax solutions, we move funds from clients accounts to employees, taxing authorities and other payees. Certain state regulators have recently expanded their interpretation of state money transmission and money service business statutes to include these standard payroll processing activities necessitating our registering in certain jurisdictions as a money transmitter. In addition, we are licensed as a payroll processor in jurisdictions requiring licensing of payroll processors. Our activities under these money transmission statutes are subject to the anti-money laundering and reporting provisions of The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USAPATRIOT Act of 2000, including the know-your-client due diligence requirements and related reporting of suspicious activities to applicable authorities. Many of our solutions assist clients in complying with certain U.S. laws and regulations that apply to them particularly in the human resources and employment law areas such as wage payment laws, state payroll tax filing and reporting, employee onboarding, and compliance with the IRS rules governing employers including tax withholdings, payroll tax filing and the preparation of Form W-2s. Additionally, our HCM solutions help clients manage their compliance other laws including, most recently, the new Families First Coronavirus Response Act of 2020 and rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (Cares Act) of 2020. Additionally, our solutions help clients meet their obligations as a plan sponsor under COBRA, and sponsor and administer compliant Flexible Spending Account Plans and compliant Consumer Health Care Plans such as Health Savings Accounts and Health Reimbursement Accounts. TRADEMARKS We have registered Asure Software as a federal trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Asures other core federally registered trademarks include AsureForce, AsureHCM and Evolution. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2020, we had a total of 482 employees (471 of which are full-time employees) in the following departments: FUNCTION NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Research and development 70 Sales and marketing 98 Customer service and technical support 221 Finance, human resources and administration 93 Total 482 We continually evaluate and adjusts the size and composition of our workforce. We also periodically retain contractors to support our sales and marketing, information technology and administrative functions. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages. Additionally, we augment our workforce capacity in research and development and client service and technical support by contracting for services through third parties. 8 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included throughout this Form 10-K, including those risks identified in Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations represent our view of some of the most important risks we face. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Refer to the cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements at the beginning of Part 1 of this Form 10-K. Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those highlighted in the section titled Risk Factors immediately following this summary. These risks include, among others, the following: The COVID-19 pandemic has materially affected and will continue to materially affect how we and our clients operate our businesses; We have a history of losses, and we cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability; If our security measures, or those of our third-party data center hosting facilities, cloud computing platform providers or third-party service partners are compromised or breached, our services may be perceived as not being secure, our brand could be damaged, our services may be disrupted, and customers may curtail or stop using our services, all of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses, and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions; We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019 and may identify additional material weaknesses in the future. If we fail to remedy our material weaknesses, or if we fail to establish and maintain effective control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results could be adversely affected; The adoption of new or interpretation of existing money service business statutes and money transmitter statutes at the federal and state level could subject us to additional regulation and related expense and necessitate changes to our business model; Acquisitions and potential acquisitions of Reseller Partners' businesses could prove difficult to integrate, result in unknown or unforeseen liabilities, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and ownership and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition; If we are not able to develop enhancements and new features to our products, keep pace with technological developments or respond to future technologies, our business, operating results and financial results will be adversely affected; If we are unable to release timely updates to reflect changes in wage and hour laws, tax, privacy, benefit and other laws and regulations that our products help our clients address, the market acceptance of our products may be adversely affected and our revenues could decline; Our business depends substantially on clients renewing their agreements with us, purchasing additional products from us or adding additional users; Even if demand for HCM products and services increases generally, there is no guarantee that demand for SaaS products generally or our products in particular will increase to a corresponding degree, or at all; Client funds that we hold in trust are subject to market, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks and loss of these funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected; 9 Table of Contents Our clients could have insufficient funds to cover payments we have made on their behalf or credit that we have extended to them in connection with the services that we have provided, resulting in financial loss to us; The impairment of a significant portion of our goodwill and intangible assets would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition; If the Small Business Administration does not grant forgiveness of our loan under the Paycheck Protection Program, our business operations and cash flow likely will be adversely affected; Our failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or failure to comply with changing laws and regulations through modifications, developments, and enhancements to our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations; Privacy concerns and laws and other regulations may limit the effectiveness of our applications and adversely affect our business; Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our existing indebtedness depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control; Our ability to incur debt and the use of our funds could be limited by the restrictive covenants in our loan agreement for our term loan and revolving credit facility or any restrictive covenants imposed by incurring additional debt; We may be subject to claims, lawsuits, governmental investigations and other proceedings that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; We incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives; We depend on data centers and computing infrastructure operated by third parties and any disruption in these operations could adversely affect our business; We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all; If we lose key personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel as needed in the future, it could disrupt the operation of our business, delay our product development and harm our growth efforts; Evolving regulation of the Internet, changes in the infrastructure underlying the Internet or interruptions in Internet access may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition by increasing our expenditures and causing client dissatisfaction. If we fail to effectively manage such growth and change, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected; If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our competitive advantage and brand could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, generate reduced revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights; The use of open source software in our applications may expose us to risks and harm our intellectual property rights; We may be sued by third parties for infringement of their proprietary rights; Some of our key components are procured from a single or limited number of suppliers and we are at risk of shortage, price increases, tariffs, changes, delay, or discontinuation of key components; Our common stock has traded in low volumes and we cannot predict whether an active trading market for our common stock will ever develop; Our stock price has been, and likely will continue to be, volatile; 10 Table of Contents Sales, or the potential for sales, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by us or our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall; We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, and you must rely on increases in the market price of our common stock for returns on equity investment; Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited; Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law, and our stockholder rights plan could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and may lead to entrenchment of our management and board of directors; and Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist stockholders, and such activism could impact the trading value of our securities. Risks Related to Our Business The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have materially affected and will continue to materially affect how we and our customers are operating our businesses, and the duration and extent to which this will impact our future results of operations and overall financial performance remains uncertain. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we temporarily closed our office locations, introduced remote working for many of our employees that remains in effect, and implemented certain travel restrictions, all of which has caused disruptions to how we operate our business. Many of our customers are non-essential businesses within the meaning of applicable regulations that have been forced, in some jurisdictions, to temporarily suspend or greatly reduce operations resulting in a lay off or termination of workers, which has a direct impact on our revenue, as this results in a decrease in overall payroll spend by our customers. Additionally, we have shifted certain of our customer events to virtual-only experiences and we may deem it advisable to similarly alter, postpone or cancel entirely additional customer, employee or industry events in the future. The conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic have affected and may continue to affect the rate of IT spending and our customers' ability or willingness to attend our events or to purchase our offerings, our prospective customers' purchasing decisions, our ability to provide on-site consulting services to our customers and the provisioning of our offerings, and may lengthen payment terms, reduce the value or duration of our contracts, or affect attrition rates, all of which has and may continue to adversely affect our future sales, operating results and overall financial information. Our operations have been negatively affected by a range of external factors related to the COVID-19 pandemic that are not within our control. For example, many cities, counties, states, and even countries have imposed or may impose a wide range of restrictions on our employees', partners' and customers' physical movement to limit the spread of COVID-19. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic has a substantial impact on our employees', partners' or customers' attendance or productivity, our results of operations and overall financial performance will likely be harmed. Finally, as a result of changes in the tax code such as the recent deferral of certain payroll tax obligations and the implementation of certain tax credits, we have had to devote more resources internally both to monitor the impact of these changes on our clients and ensure that our clients remain compliant with the federal, state and local tax jurisdictions. In addition, there can be no assurance that additional tax changes will not require us to incur more expense. The duration and extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic depends on future developments that cannot be accurately predicted at this time, such as the severity and transmission rate of the virus, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions and the impact of these and other factors on our employees, customers, partners and vendors. We currently expect our business will continue to be adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. We have a history of losses, and we cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred losses since our inception. We experienced net losses from continuing operations of $16.3 million and $42.3 million in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2020, and 2019, respectively. At December 31, 2020, our accumulated deficit was $270.0 million and total stockholders equity was $145.7 million. We expect to continue to incur operating losses as a result of expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business. Such expenses include among others, transaction costs associated with acquisitions, sales and marketing, research and development, consulting and support services and other costs relating to the development, marketing and sale and service of our products that may not generate revenue until later periods, if at all. Any failure to increase revenue or manage our cost structure as we implement initiatives to grow our business could prevent us from achieving or sustaining 11 Table of Contents profitability. In addition, our ability to achieve profitability is subject to a number of the risks and uncertainties discussed below, many of which are beyond our control, including the impact of the current environment, the spread of major epidemics (including coronavirus) and other related uncertainties such as government-imposed travel restrictions, interruptions to supply chains and extended shut-down of businesses. We cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If our security measures are breached, or unauthorized access to our clients' or their employees' sensitive data is otherwise obtained, our solution may not be perceived as being secure, clients may reduce the use of or stop using our solution, our ability to attract new clients may be harmed and we may incur significant liabilities. Our solution involves the collection, storage and transmission of clients and their employees confidential and proprietary information, including personal identifying information, as well as financial and payroll data. HCM software is often targeted in cyber-attacks, including computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs and other information security breaches, which could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our clients sensitive data or otherwise disrupt our clients or other third parties business operations. If cybercriminals are able to circumvent our security measures, or if we are unable to detect an intrusion into our systems and contain such intrusion in a reasonable amount of time, our clients sensitive data may be compromised. Certain of our employees have access to sensitive information about our clients employees. While we conduct background checks of our employees and limit access to systems and data, it is possible that one or more of these individuals may circumvent these controls, resulting in a security breach. Although we have security measures in place to protect client information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, these measures could be breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, third-party or employee malfeasance or otherwise. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, we may not be able to anticipate these techniques and implement adequate preventative or protective measures. While we currently maintain a cyber liability insurance policy, cyber liability insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our cyber liability insurance policy may not cover all claims made against us, and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert managements attention from our business and operations. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019 and may identify additional material weaknesses in the future that may cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements of our consolidated financial statements. If we are unable to remedy any material weaknesses identified in the future, or if we fail to establish and maintain effective control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results could be adversely affected and we may be adversely affected. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Management has since implemented measures to remediate this material weakness, including: (i) review and changes to system access, (ii) organization re-alignment to improve and ensure segregation of duties and (iii) implementation of additional manual and IT controls. The actions we have taken are subject to continued review, supported by confirmation and testing by management as well as audit committee oversight. While we believe the measures that we have implemented have remediated the material weakness, we cannot assure you that such measures will be sufficient to remediate the control deficiencies that led to the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting or to avoid potential future material weaknesses. If we identify any additional material weaknesses, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected and we may be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, we may not have adequate, accurate or timely financial information, and we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations 12 Table of Contents as a public company. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, when and as applicable, could also potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Furthermore, if we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and results of operations could be harmed and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information. The adoption of new or interpretation of existing money service business statutes and money transmitter statutes at the federal and state level could subject us to additional regulation and related expense and necessitate changes to our business model. The adoption of new money transmitter or money service business statutes in new jurisdictions, changes in regulators interpretations of existing statutes, or disagreement by regulators of our interpretation of such statutes or regulations could require additional registrations or licensing, limit certain of our business activities until we are properly licensed and expose us to financial penalties. These occurrences could also require change to the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our money movement business or client funds investment strategy. Although we maintain that we are not a money service business or money transmitter, we have proactively registered in some jurisdictions due to regulatory changes and have adopted an Anti-Money Laundering Policy and compliance program designed to mitigate the risk of our services and application being utilized for illegal purposes including money laundering and to assist in detecting fraud. Should other states or jurisdictions determine that that we are a money service business or money transmitter, we could be subject to civil and criminal fines, penalties, registration fees, cost of surety bonds or other security, reputational damage and other negative consequences that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. If our security measures are breached or if personal information of our direct or indirect clients or their employees is accessed or obtained, our HCM solution may not be perceived as being secure and we may suffer reputational damage, clients and resellers may not select or continue with our services or products and we may incur significant liabilities. Asure HCM involves the collection, transmission, processing and storing of the personal information of our direct and indirect clients and their employees, including personally identifying information including social security numbers, banking information and payroll data. This type of data is highly sensitive and is regulated by laws in all jurisdictions governing the security and privacy of personal information. HCM software is a target in cyber attacks due to the sensitive nature of data being stored, accordingly, we could be subjected to viruses, phishing, worms or other malicious software programs and other information security breaches. In the event that such attacks were able to circumvent our own security processes, or if we did not detect an intrusion in time to stop such attack, such breach could result in loss, destruction, theft, or misuse of this information. In addition to malicious acts by third parties, unauthorized access to or breach of our systems could occur through employee error or employee malfeasance. Although we have security measures in place to prevent the possibility of breach or data loss, we may not be able to adequately anticipate and operationalize all preventative and protective measures necessary. While we maintain a cyber liability insurance policy, such policy may not be adequate to cover all losses and the cost of defending a lawsuit. Moreover, if a high profile security breach occurs with respect to another SaaS provider in our market, our clients and potential clients may lose trust in the security of the SaaS business model generally, which could adversely impact our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones. Any actual or perceived breach of our security could damage our reputation, cause existing clients and resellers to terminate our services, prevent future clients from doing business with us and result in regulatory liability and third-party liability, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have acquired and plan to continue to acquire from time to time our Reseller Partners' businesses that have licensed our proprietary software either through stock acquisition or through an asset purchase of their client service agreements and related assets. These acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, result in unknown or unforeseen liabilities, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and ownership and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition; difficulties in, and the cost of, integrating operations, technologies, services, platforms and personnel; diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations; the potential entry into new markets in which we have little or no experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; 13 Table of Contents potential write-offs of acquired assets or investments, and potential financial and credit risks associated with acquired customers; potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs; inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business; difficulty of transitioning the acquired technology onto our existing platforms and customer acceptance of multiple platforms on a temporary or permanent basis; increasing or maintaining the security standards for acquired technology consistent with our other services; potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses including regulatory noncompliance; negative impact to our results of operations because of the depreciation and amortization of amounts related to acquired intangible assets, fixed assets and deferred compensation; additional stock based compensation; the loss of acquired deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue; delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty related to any acquisition; ineffective or inadequate controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company; potential additional cybersecurity and compliance risks resulting from entry into new markets; and the tax effects of any such acquisitions. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement ("Third Restated Credit Agreement") restricts our ability to consummate acquisitions without the consent of our lender. To facilitate these acquisitions or investments, we may seek additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, which may affect our ability to complete acquisitions or investments. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible or other debt securities or loans, or issue equity as consideration for an acquisition, our existing stockholders may be diluted, or we could face constraints related to the terms of, and repayment obligations related to, the incurrence of indebtedness. If we are not able to develop enhancements and new features to our products, keep pace with technological developments or respond to future technologies, our business, operating results and financial results will be adversely affected. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt and innovate. To attract new clients and increase revenue from existing clients, we will need to enhance and improve our existing products and introduce new features. The success of any enhancement or new feature depends on several factors, including timely completion, introduction and market acceptance. If we are unable to enhance our existing products to meet client needs or successfully develop or acquire new features or products, or if such new features or products fail to be successful, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our products are designed to operate on a variety of network, hardware and software platforms using Internet tools and protocols, and we must continuously modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. In addition, if new technologies emerge that are able to deliver HCM software at lower prices, more efficiently or more conveniently, we may be unable to compete with these technologies. If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to these rapid technological developments, our products may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete, and our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to release timely updates to reflect changes in wage and hour laws, tax, privacy, benefit and other laws and regulations that our products help our clients address, the market acceptance of our products may be adversely affected and our revenues could decline. Our solutions are affected by changes in wage and hour laws, tax, privacy, benefit and other laws and regulations and generally must be updated regularly to maintain their accuracy, compliance and competitiveness. Although we believe our SaaS platform provides us with flexibility to release updates in response to these changes, we cannot be certain that we will be able to make the necessary changes to our solutions and release updates on a timely basis, or at all. Similarly, any compliance failure in our proprietary software and related internal processes will result in clients utilizing the affected services being out of compliance. Failure to provide a fully compliant SaaS solution could have an adverse effect on the functionality and market acceptance of our solutions and noncompliance could expose us and our clients to potential litigation, fines and penalties. Changes in laws and regulations may require us to make significant investments in modifying and improving our products or delay or cease sales of certain products, which could result in reduced revenues or revenue growth and our incurring substantial expenses and write-offs. Our business depends substantially on clients renewing their agreements with us, purchasing additional products from us or adding additional users. If our customers do not renew their agreements with us or reduce the services purchased, our revenue will decline and our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we cannot accurately predict subscription renewals or upgrade rates, we may not meet our revenue targets, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In order for us to improve our operating results, it is important that our clients renew their agreements with us when the initial contract term expires and also purchase additional products or add additional users. Our customers have no obligation to renew their agreements after the expiration of their agreement, and in the normal course of business, some customers have elected not to renew. Even if customers elect to renew, they may renew for fewer subscriptions, renew for shorter contract lengths, or switch to lower cost offerings of our services. Moreover, certain of our clients have the right to cancel their agreements for convenience, subject to certain notice requirements and, in some cases, early termination fees. It is difficult to predict attrition rates given our varied customer base of enterprise, varied sizes of our customers and the number of multi-year subscription contracts. Our client renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products, our pricing, the prices of competing products or services, mergers and acquisitions affecting our client base, reduced hiring by our clients or reductions in our clients spending levels. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to sell additional features and services, more subscriptions or enhanced editions of our services to our current customers. This may also require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts that are targeted at senior management. Similarly, the rate at which our customers purchase new or enhanced services depends on a number of factors, including general economic conditions and that our customers do not react negatively to any price changes related to these additional features and services. In addition, if we cannot accurately predict subscription renewals or upgrade rates, we may not meet our revenue targets, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Even if demand for HCM products and services increases generally, there is no guarantee that demand for SaaS products generally or our products in particular will increase to a corresponding degree, or at all. The widespread adoption of our products depends not only on strong demand for HCM products and services generally, but also for products and services delivered via a SaaS business model in particular. A significant number of organizations do not use HCM products, and it is unclear whether such organizations will ever use these products and, if they do, whether they will choose to use a SaaS software service or our HCM products in particular. As a result, we cannot assure you that our SaaS HCM software products will achieve and sustain the high level of market acceptance that is critical for the success of our business. Client funds that we hold in trust are subject to market, interest rate, credit and liquidity risk. The loss of these funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We invest our funds held for clients in high quality, investment-grade marketable securities, money markets, and other cash equivalents. However, these funds held for clients are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated during periods of unusual financial market volatility. Any loss or inability to access client funds could have an adverse impact on our cash position and could require us to obtain 15 Table of Contents additional sources of liquidity, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. The market for payroll and HCM solutions is fragmented, highly competitive and rapidly changing. Our competitors vary for each of our solutions, and include (i) enterprise-focused software providers, such as Ultimate Software Group, Inc., MasterTax, and Ceridian Corporation, (ii) payroll service providers, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Paychex, Inc., Paycom Software, Inc., Paycor, Inc. and (iii) other regional providers, and HCM point solutions, such as Cornerstone OnDemand, Inc. Several of our competitors are larger, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets and significantly greater resources than we do, and are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. Some of our competitors could offer HCM solutions bundled as part of a larger product offering. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships, access to larger customer bases, and major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators, and resellers. Furthermore, our current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources and the ability to initiate or withstand substantial price competition. As a result, our competitors may be able to develop products and services better received by our markets or may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, regulations or client requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established, and might in the future establish, partner or form other cooperative relationships with vendors of complementary products, technologies or services to enable them to offer new products and services, to compete more effectively or to increase the availability of their products in the marketplace. New competitors or relationships might emerge that have greater market share, a larger client base, more widely adopted proprietary technologies, greater marketing expertise, greater financial resources, and larger sales forces than we have, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In light of these advantages, current or potential clients might accept competitive offerings in lieu of purchasing our offerings. We expect intense competition to continue for these reasons, and such competition could negatively impact our sales, profitability or market share. Our clients could have insufficient funds to cover payments we have made on their behalf or credit that we have extended to them in connection with the services that we have provided, resulting in financial loss to us. Our payroll processing service involves moving significant funds from our clients account to employees and taxing authorities. We debit our clients accounts prior to disbursements; however, due to ACH banking regulations, funds previously credited to our accounts could be reversed after our payment of amounts due to employees and taxing authorities. Therefore the risk exists that a clients funds will be insufficient to cover the amount paid on its behalf. Should such clients default on their obligations, we might be required to advance substantial funds to cover such obligations. Additionally, we may be the target of deliberate fraud with fraudsters attempting to exploit the payroll payment process by posing as legitimate businesses and deliberately underfunding their payroll obligations. If required to advance substantial amounts of funds to cover payment obligations of our clients, we may need to seek additional sources of short-term liquidity, which may not be available on reasonable terms, which could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We grant credit to customers in the ordinary course of business, exposing us to the credit risk of our customers. In the course of our sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty collecting accounts receivable, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. We maintain reserves for potential credit losses. However, these reserves are based on our judgment and a variety of factors and assumptions. We perform credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and follow the terms of our AML BSA program to verify clients and their beneficial owners. However, our evaluation of the creditworthiness of customers may not be accurate if they do not provide us with timely and accurate financial information or if their situations change after we evaluate their credit. While we attempt to monitor these situations carefully, adjust our allowances for doubtful accounts as appropriate and take measures to collect accounts receivable balances, we have written down accounts receivable and written off doubtful accounts in prior periods and may be unable to avoid additional write-downs or write-offs of doubtful accounts in the future. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and could harm our financial condition. 16 Table of Contents If the banks that currently provide ACH and wire transfers fail to properly transmit ACH, exit the payroll industry, or terminate their relationship with us or limit our ability to process funds or we are not able to increase our ACH capacity with our existing and new banking partners, our ability to process funds on behalf of our clients and our financial results and liquidity could be adversely affected. We currently have agreements with banks and third party ACH processors to execute ACH and wire transfers to support our client payroll, benefit and tax services. If one or more of the banks fails to process ACH transfers on a timely basis, or at all, then our relationship with our clients could be harmed and we could be subject to claims by a client with respect to the failed transfers. In addition, these banks have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If these banks terminate their relationships with us or restrict the dollar amounts of funds that they will process on behalf of our clients, their doing so may impede our ability to process funds and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of our total assets consist of intangible assets, including goodwill. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets together accounted for approximately 27% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2020. We may not realize the full fair value of our intangible assets and goodwill. We expect to engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. We evaluate on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets may be impaired. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write off the impaired portion of goodwill and such intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. In 2019, we recorded an impairment of goodwill amounting to $35,060, which was reflected as an operating expense in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss). In addition, any future impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If the Small Business Administration does not grant forgiveness of our loan under the Paycheck Protection Program, our business operations and cash flow likely will be adversely affected, and we may be limited in our ability to grow our operations until the unforgiven portion of this loan is repaid. On April 15, 2020, we received a loan in the aggregate principal amount of $8,856 (the PPP Loan) from Pinnacle Bank pursuant to the Paycheck Protection Program under Title 1 of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act). The PPP Loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 1.00% per annum and matures on April 15, 2022. Under the terms of the Paycheck Protection Program, the principal balance and interest due under the promissory note will be forgiven if we meet certain conditions related to the use of the loan proceeds. While we expect that this loan will be forgiven, we cannot be certain that the Small Business Administration (SBA) will grant forgiveness of our entire loan. If we do not receive forgiveness of our entire loan, we will be obligated to start making payments on the portion of the principal and interest that is not forgiven so that it will be fully repaid no later than April 15, 2022, unless we are able to negotiate new payment terms with Pinnacle Bank. Amendments to the terms of our PPP Loan are subject to the consent of our senior lender. We filed our initial forgiveness application in December 2020 and completed our application in early February 2021. We do not expect to have a decision from the SBA regarding the forgiveness of the PPP Loan until sometime in the second quarter of 2021. If the portion of the PPP Loan that is not forgiven (the Unforgiven Debt) exceeds $3,250 or requires monthly payments of principal and interest in excess of $185, it is likely we will be in default under our Third Restated Credit Agreement unless we obtain a waiver from our senior lender or are otherwise able to negotiate acceptable terms with our senior lender and Pinnacle Bank. In the event our senior lender requires us to make a prepayment on the Unforgiven Debt or on any outstanding loans with our senior lender, our cash flow and business likely will be adversely affected. Finally, in addition to the potential effects of the Unforgiven Debt on compliance with the terms of our third amended and restated credit agreement, the monthly principal and interest payments on the Unforgiven Debt may negatively affect our ability to grow our operations, service other indebtedness, including the indebtedness under our credit facility with our senior lender or owed to sellers in connection with prior acquisitions, or integrate complementary acquisitions. The Unforgiven Debt, if any, could cause the price of our common stock to decline and otherwise have a negative impact on our operations. 17 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with existing laws and regulations may result in adverse effects on our business, service and financial condition and failure to comply with changing laws and regulations through modifications, developments, and enhancements to our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our services are subject to various laws and regulations including COBRA, HIPAA, laws and regulations promulgated by state wage and hour authorities and anti-money laundering regulations. Failure to comply with the multiple laws and regulations that impact us may result in civil liability from our clients for noncompliance, regulatory fines, and loss of reputation in the event of a public regulatory investigation or consent order or civil lawsuit. Moreover, many of our solutions are designed to assist our clients with their compliance with myriad government regulations and laws that continually change. For example, regulatory changes in 2020 in response to the COVID pandemic necessitated multiple product modifications to accommodate changes relevant to the collection and remittance of payroll tax, including payroll tax deferments. The introduction of new regulatory requirements or changes in interpretation of existing laws or regulations could increase our cost of doing business. As with the development changes necessitated with new regulations in response to COVID, changing regulatory requirements may require the introduction of new applications or enhancements, or may make new modifications or new applications more expensive or could prevent the introduction of new applications. Changes in laws could also impact applications under development, rendering them in applicable or obsolete mid development which could result in wasted time and development money. Any failure to anticipate and respond to these legal regulations and changes and provide tools and applications to solve for these changes in a timely fashion could adversely affect our reputation and affect our business and results of operations. Privacy concerns and laws and other regulations may limit the effectiveness of our applications and adversely affect our business. Our products are subject to various complex laws and regulations on the federal, state and local levels, including those governing data security and privacy. The regulatory framework for privacy issues is rapidly evolving and will remain uncertain as more jurisdiction adopt laws and regulations regarding the collection, processing, storage and disposal of personal information. In the United States, the laws include regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, state data breach notification laws, and state security and privacy laws such as the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act (IBIPA) governing biometric data. Some of these laws, such as the CCPA and IBIPA, grant consumers private right of actions for data breaches or violations as applicable. Additionally, because some of our Reseller clients have clients in the European Union utilizing Asures Time and Attendance product, the GDPR may impact our processing of certain client and client employee information. Failure to comply with laws, including security and privacy laws, could subject us to liability, fines, lawsuits and could require us to change our applications in order to comply. Evolving privacy requirements could also reduce demand for our services or restrict our ability to store and process data or, in some cases, impact our ability to offer our services in certain locations. In addition to governmental regulation, self-regulatory standards may place additional burdens on us. Many of our customers expect us to meet voluntary certification or other standards established by third parties as well as other audited measures and controls. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could adversely affect our ability to provide our solutions to certain customers and could harm our business. Even the perception that the privacy of personal information is not satisfactorily protected or does not meet regulatory requirements could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions. If our security measures or those of our third-party data center hosting facilities, cloud computing platform providers or third-party service partners are compromised or breached, our services may be perceived as not being secure, our brand could be damaged, our services may be disrupted, and customers may curtail or stop using our services, all of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses, and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions. Our services involve the collection, transmission, processing and storing of our Reseller Partners clients and our direct clients proprietary and other sensitive data, including personally identifiable information about employees, financial information, banking information, HIPAA data with respect to our consumer health care administration services, and other personal information. While we have security measures in place, they may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our information technology systems, our customers data or our data, 18 Table of Contents including our intellectual property and other confidential business information. In addition, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers data, their customers data, our data or our information technology systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, our customers may authorize third-party technology providers to access their customer data, and some of our customers may not have adequate security measures in place to protect their data that is stored on our services. Because we do not control our customers or third-party technology providers, or the processing of such data by third-party technology providers, we cannot ensure the integrity or security of such transmissions or processing. Malicious third parties may also conduct attacks designed to temporarily deny customers access to our services. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our services, damage our reputation, negatively impact our future sales, disrupt our business and lead to legal liability. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our existing indebtedness (including the indebtedness under our Third Restated Credit Agreement and subordinated promissory notes) depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and support our growth strategies. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may be required to pursue one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations, including under our current debt obligations. In addition, if for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we would be in default under the terms of our Third Restated Credit Agreement, which would allow our creditors at that time to declare all outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable. Under these circumstances, our lenders could compel us to apply all of our available cash to repay our indebtedness. Our ability to incur debt and the use of our funds could be limited by the restrictive covenants in our loan agreement for our term loan and revolving credit facility. Our Third Restated Credit Agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. provides for a term loan and revolving credit facility that contains restrictive covenants, including restrictions on our ability to pay dividends to stockholders, as well as requirements to comply with certain leverage ratios and other financial maintenance tests and stringent requirements around regulatory compliance. These restrictive covenants and requirements limit the amount of borrowings that are available to us. The Third Restated Credit Agreement covenants may also affect our ability to obtain future financing and to pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. These covenants could place us at a disadvantage compared to some of our competitors, who may have fewer restrictive covenants and may not be required to operate under these restrictions. We may be required to incur further debt to meet future capital requirements of our business. Should we be required to incur additional debt, the restrictions imposed by the terms of such debt could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to respond to changes in our business. If we incur additional debt, we may be subject to the following risks: our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions may be heightened; our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business may be limited; our debt covenants may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; higher levels of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors or prevent us from pursuing opportunities; covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds and make certain investments; a significant portion of our cash flow could be used to service our indebtedness; and 19 Table of Contents our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes may be impaired. We cannot assure you that our leverage and such restrictions will not materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. We may be subject to claims, lawsuits, governmental investigations and other proceedings that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are sometimes the subject of claims, lawsuits, governmental investigations and other legal and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including those involving, among others, breach of contract, tortious conduct and employment law matters. The results of any such claims, lawsuits, or other legal or regulatory proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Any claims against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, be harmful to our reputation, impact licenses that are necessary or required to operate our business, require significant management attention and divert significant resources. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial damages, settlement costs, fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. We may fail to comply with the rules that apply to public companies, which could result in sanctions or other penalties that would harm our business. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company, including costs resulting from public company reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and regulations regarding corporate governance practices. The listing requirements of The Nasdaq Capital Market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to director independence, distributing annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, approvals and voting, soliciting proxies, conflicts of interest and a code of conduct. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to ensure that we comply with all of these requirements. Moreover, new reporting requirements, rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. Any changes we make to comply with these obligations may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely basis, or at all. To the extent that our pre-tax income or loss becomes relatively modest, our ability to conclude that a control deficiency is not a material weakness or that an accounting error does not require a restatement could be adversely affected. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to assess the impact of control deficiencies based upon both quantitative and qualitative factors, and depending upon that analysis, we classify such identified deficiencies as either a control deficiency, significant deficiency or a material weakness. One element of our analysis of the significance of any control deficiency is its actual or potential financial impact. This assessment will vary depending on our level of pre-tax income or loss. For example, a smaller pre-tax income or loss will increase the likelihood of a quantitative assessment of a control deficiency as a significant deficiency or material weakness. To the extent that our pre-tax income or loss is relatively small, if management or our independent registered public accountants identify an error in our interim or annual financial statements, it is more likely that such an error may be determined to be a material weakness or be considered a material error that could, depending upon the complete quantitative and qualitative analysis, result in our having to restate previously issued financial statements. We depend on data centers and computing infrastructure operated by third parties and any disruption in these operations could adversely affect our business. We rely on hosted infrastructure partners, such as Amazon Web Services ("AWS") and to a lesser extent, Data Center providers, to provide third-party hosted environments for our applications. While we control and have access to our servers and all the components of the networks that are located in our hosted environments, we do not control the operations of these facilities. The owners of such facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms. If we are not able to renew these contracts on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to transfer our servers and other infrastructure to new data facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in doing so. We may not have adequately distributed our systems within our hosted 20 Table of Contents infrastructure partner's environment to prevent in any regional disruption or interference at our hosted infrastructure partners from adversely impacting our operations and our business. Our SaaS hosting network infrastructure is a critical part of our business operations. Our clients access our HCM software through a standard web browser and depend on us for fast and reliable access to our products. Our software is proprietary, and we rely on third-party data center hosting facilities and the expertise of members of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our software. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions in our computing and communications infrastructure. Factors that may cause such disruptions include: human error; security breaches; telecommunications outages from third-party providers; computer viruses; acts of terrorism, sabotage or other intentional acts of vandalism, including cyber attacks; unforeseen interruption or damages experienced in moving hardware to a new location, including government-imposed travel restrictions; fire, earthquake, flood, the spread of major epidemics (including coronavirus) and other natural disasters; and power loss. Although we generally back up our client databases hourly, store our data in more than one geographically distinct location at least weekly, we do not currently offer immediate access to disaster recovery locations in the event of a disaster or major outage. Thus, in the event of any of the factors described above, or other failures of our computing infrastructure, clients may not be able to access their data for lengthy periods of time and it is possible that client data from recent transactions may be permanently lost or otherwise compromised. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. Moreover, some of our agreements include performance guarantees and service level standards that obligate us to provide credits, refunds or termination rights in the event of a significant disruption in our SaaS hosting network infrastructure or other technical problems that relate to the functionality or design of our software. We may be adversely affected by failure of third parties in providing their services. We rely on multiple third-party service providers to provide services to our clients as part of our service offerings. Service providers include for example our banking and ach transaction partners, mail services, outsourced consumer health care administration service providers, and Amazon Web Services hosting services. Failure of these providers to deliver their services in a compliant, timely manner could result in material disruption to our business, result in reputational damage, expose us to greater liability from our clients than we can recover from the third parties, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We intend to continue to make investments, including the acquisition of complementary businesses, to support our business growth and may seek additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new features or enhance our existing products, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in additional equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through issuances of equity or debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to satisfy our obligations under the notes and any future indebtedness we may incur and to make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, refinancing or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance future indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on the notes or future indebtedness. Volatility and weakness in bank and capital markets may adversely affect credit availability and related financing costs for us. Banking and capital markets can experience periods of volatility and disruption. If the disruption in these markets is prolonged, our ability to refinance, and the related cost of refinancing, some or all of our debt could be adversely affected. Although we currently can access the bank and capital markets, there is no assurance that such markets will continue to be a reliable source of financing for us. These factors, including the tightening of credit markets, could adversely affect our ability to obtain cost-effective financing. Increased volatility and disruptions in the financial markets also could make it more difficult and more expensive for us to refinance outstanding indebtedness and to obtain financing. In addition, the adoption of new statutes and regulations, the implementation of recently enacted laws, or new interpretations or the enforcement of older laws and regulations applicable to the financial markets or the financial services industry could result in a reduction in the amount of available credit or an increase in the cost of credit. Disruptions in the financial markets can also adversely affect our lenders, insurers, customers, and other counterparties. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, the interest rate on debt we have incurred under our Third Restated Credit Agreement is calculated with reference to LIBOR. LIBOR is an interest rate used in lending transactions between banks on the London interbank market. On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom's Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2021. The maturity date of our indebtedness under our Third Restated Credit Agreement is after December 31, 2021. Our Third Restated Credit Agreement allows for an adjustment of the interest rate on such loans as a result of the phase out of LIBOR; however, we cannot guarantee that any replacement rate will be as favorable to us as the LIBOR rate and this may affect our ability to meet our debt service and repayment obligations or have an adverse effect on our operations. If we lose key personnel, including key management personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel as needed in the future, it could disrupt the operation of our business, delay our product development and harm our growth efforts. Our future performance depends largely on our ability to continually and effectively attract, train, retain, motivate and manage highly qualified and experienced technical, sales, marketing, managerial and executive personnel. Our future development and growth depend on the efforts of key management personnel and technical employees. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to attract and retain personnel with the requisite capabilities and experience. The loss of one or more of our key management or technical personnel could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In the last twelve months, we have experienced turnover within our finance team. If we are unable to retain and successfully integrate their replacements in our business, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and the reliability of our financial statements. Our future performance depends largely on our ability to continually and effectively attract, train, retain, motivate and manage highly qualified and experienced individuals, specifically in our finance function. In the last year, we had significant turnover in our finance and accounting team, including the executive, tax, SEC reporting, treasury and audit functions and we also had a new chief financial officer and corporate controller, thereby resulting in a lack of institutional knowledge as to our financial operations. While none of these former employees left us due to any disagreement with management over the financial statements, the loss of these individuals impacts the continuity of our financial reporting and related internal controls. If we are unable to retain and successfully integrate the current employees serving in these roles, it could have a material impact on our business and financial results. 22 Table of Contents Evolving regulation of the Internet, changes in the infrastructure underlying the Internet or interruptions in Internet access may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition by increasing our expenditures and causing client dissatisfaction. Our services depend on the ability of our registered users to access the Internet. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and government-owned service providers. Laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, including changes to laws or regulations impacting Internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our products, increase our operating costs, require us to alter the manner in which we conduct our business and/or otherwise adversely affect our business. For example, the Federal Communications Commission (the FCC) recently adopted an order repealing rules that prohibit Internet service providers (ISPs) from blocking or throttling Internet traffic, and from engaging in practices that prioritize particular Internet content in exchange for payment (also known as paid prioritization). The order is not yet effective and has been challenged in court, which could result in further changes to the governing law. There is also uncertainty regarding how the FCCs new framework, if upheld, and new oversight by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) will be applied. Depending on ongoing appellate proceedings and future action by the FCC and FTC, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In particular, the repeal of restrictions on paid prioritization could enable ISPs to impose higher fees and otherwise adversely affect our business. In addition, the rapid and continual growth of traffic on the Internet has resulted at times in slow connection and download speeds of Internet users. Our business may be harmed if the Internet infrastructure cannot handle our clients demands or if hosting capacity becomes insufficient. If our clients become frustrated with the speed at which they can utilize our products over the Internet, our clients may discontinue the use of our software and choose not to renew their contracts with us. Further, the performance of the Internet has also been adversely affected by viruses, worms, hacking, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks and other similar malicious programs, as well as other forms of damage to portions of its infrastructure, which have resulted in a variety of Internet outages, interruptions and other delays. These service interruptions could diminish the overall attractiveness of our products to existing and potential users and could cause demand for our products to suffer. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our competitive advantage and brand could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, generate reduced revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products and services. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our licensed products may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. While our general practice is to enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances, these agreements may not be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. If we fail to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, we may lose valuable assets, generate reduced revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The use of open-source software in our applications may expose us to risks and harm our intellectual property rights. The use of open-source software in our products may expose us to additional risks and harm our intellectual property rights. There have been claims in the past challenging the ownership of open-source software against companies that incorporate such software into their products or applications. As a result we could be subject to intellectual property related claims around ownership rights to what we believe to be open-source software. In addition, if we were to combine our applications with open-source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open-source licenses, be required to release the source code of our applications. If we inappropriately use open-source software, we 23 Table of Contents may be required to redesign our applications, discontinue the sale of our applications or take other remedial actions, which could adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition. Inability to maintain the third-party licensed software we use in our applications at the current costs could result in increased costs or reduced service levels, which could adversely affect our business. We use certain third-party software in our applications that we obtain from other companies and will continue to rely on such third party software. If we were required to find alternatives to such software for whatever reason, it may be expensive to replace, and could require significant investment of time and resources to find alternatives and integrate with our software. Additionally, error or issues in that software could adversely affect our own software and errors or defects may not be readily apparent to use, resulting in a failure of our applications. We may be sued by third parties for infringement of their proprietary rights. There is considerable intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends upon our not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties, including our competitors, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our products or services and may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We may be found to be infringing upon such rights, even if we are unaware of their intellectual property rights. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, obtain licenses, modify applications, prevent us from offering our services, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers, vendors or partners in connection with any such claim or litigation. Even if we were to prevail in such a dispute, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel form our business operations. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our key components are procured from a single or limited number of suppliers. Thus, we are at risk of shortage, price increases, tariffs, changes, delay, or discontinuation of key components, which could disrupt and materially and adversely affect our business. Some of the key components used to manufacture our products, such as the AsureForce time clocks and air clocks, come from limited or single sources of supply. We do not have contractual commitments or guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. As a result, we are subject to the risk of shortages and long lead times in the supply of our components or products. Further, our suppliers may experience financial or other difficulties as a result of uncertain and weak worldwide economic conditions. Other factors which may affect our suppliers' ability or willingness to supply components to us include internal management or reorganizational issues, such as roll-out of new equipment which may delay or disrupt supply of previously forecasted components, or industry consolidation and divestitures, which may result in changed business and product priorities among certain suppliers. It could be difficult, costly and time consuming to obtain alternative sources for these components, or to change product designs to make use of alternative components. In addition, difficulties in transitioning from an existing supplier to a new supplier could create delays in component availability that would have a significant impact on our ability to fulfill orders for our products. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported operating results. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. As of December 31, 2020, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $48,435 and research and development credit carryforwards of approximately $3,579, which begin expiring in 2021. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, the corporations ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited. In general, an ownership change occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5% shareholders that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules apply under state tax laws. In the event that it is determined that we have in the 24 Table of Contents past experienced ownership changes, or if we experience one or more ownership changes as a result of future transactions in our stock, then we may be limited in our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets to reduce taxes owed on the net taxable income that we earn. Any such limitations on the ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Securities Our common stock has traded in low volumes. We cannot predict whether an active trading market for our common stock will ever develop. Historically, our common stock has experienced a lack of trading liquidity. In the absence of an active trading market: an investor may have difficulty buying and selling our common stock at all or at the price one considers reasonable; and market visibility for shares of our common stock may be limited, which may have a depressive effect on the market price for shares of our common stock and on our ability to raise capital or make acquisitions by issuing our common stock. Our stock price has been, and likely will continue to be, volatile. The market price of our common stock has in the past been, and is likely to continue in the future to be, volatile. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, the Nasdaq closing price of one share of our common stock fluctuated from a low of $4.90 to a high of $10.00. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, the Nasdaq closing price of one share of our common stock fluctuated from a low of $5.08 to a high of $9.08. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: announcements regarding the results of expansion or development efforts by us or our competitors; announcements regarding the acquisition of businesses or companies by us or our competitors; technological innovations or new products and services developed by us or our competitors; changes in domestic or foreign laws and regulations affecting our industry issuance of new or changed securities analysts reports and/or recommendations applicable to us or our competitors; changes in financial or operational estimates or projections; additions or departure of our key personnel; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results and degree of trading liquidity in our common stock; and political or economic uncertainties, including the impact of the coronavirus and other developments on equity trading markets. In addition, stock markets generally have experienced significant price and volume volatility. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. Sales, or the potential for sales, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by us or our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall. The sale of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could harm the prevailing market price of shares of our common stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the sale of equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of March 8, 2021, we had 19,016,972 shares of common stock outstanding. 25 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, and you must rely on increases in the market price of our common stock for returns on equity investment. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, our Third Restated Credit Agreement contains limitations on our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. Our stockholder rights plan, or poison pill, includes terms and conditions which could discourage a takeover or other transaction that stockholders may consider favorable. On October 28, 2009, stockholders of record at the close of business on that date received a dividend of one right (a Right) for each outstanding share of common stock. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of Series A junior participating preferred stock of the Company (the Preferred Stock), at a price of $11.63 per one thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock, subject to adjustment (the Exercise Price). The Rights are not exercisable until the Distribution Date referred to below. The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company LLC, dated as of April 17, 2019, which extended the expiration date of the Rights to October 28, 2022. The Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement imposes a significant penalty upon any person or group that acquires 4.9% or more (but less than 50%) of our then-outstanding common stock without the prior approval of the board of directors. Stockholders who own 4.9% or more of our then-outstanding common stock as of the close of business on the Record Date will not trigger the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement so long as they do not increase their ownership of the common stock after the Record Date by more than one-half of 1% of the then-outstanding common stock. A person or group that acquires shares of our common stock in excess of the above-mentioned applicable threshold, subject to certain limited exceptions, is called an Acquiring Person. Any rights held by an Acquiring Person are void and may not be exercised. The Rights will not be exercisable until 10 days after a public announcement by us that a person or group has become an Acquiring Person. On the date (if any) that the Rights become exercisable (the Distribution Date), each Right would allow its holder to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock for a purchase price of $11.63. In addition, if a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person after the Distribution Date or already is an Acquiring Person and acquires more shares after the Distribution Date, all holders of Rights, except the Acquiring Person, may exercise their rights to purchase a number of shares of the common stock (in lieu of Preferred Stock) with a market value of twice the Exercise Price, upon payment of the purchase price. The Rights will expire on the earliest of (a) October 28, 2022, (b) the exchange or redemption of the Rights, (c) consummation of a merger or consolidation or sale of assets resulting in expiration of the Rights, (d) the consummation of a reorganization transaction entered that the board of directors determines will help prevent an Ownership Change, as defined in Section 382 of the Code and protect our net operating losses, (e) the repeal of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code or any successor statute, or any other change, if the board of directors determines the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement is no longer necessary for the preservation of tax benefits, or (f) the beginning of a taxable year to which the board of directors determines that no tax benefits may be carried forward. We may, at our option and with the approval of the board of directors, at any time prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the tenth day following the first date of public announcement by us or an Acquiring Person that an Acquiring Person has become such or such later date as may be determined by action of a majority of the members of the board of directors then in office and publicly announced by us or (ii) October 28, 2022, redeem all but not less than all the then outstanding Rights at a redemption price of $0.067 per Right (such redemption price being herein referred to as the Redemption Price). We may, at our option, pay the Redemption Price either in common stock (based on the current per share market price thereof) or cash; provided, that if the board of directors authorizes redemption of the Rights on or after the time a person becomes an Acquiring Person, then such authorization shall require the concurrence of a majority of the members of the board of directors then in office. In addition, after a person becomes an Acquiring Person the board of directors may exchange the Rights (other than Rights owned by the Acquiring Person or its affiliates), in whole or in part, at an exchange ratio of one common share per Right (subject to adjustment). The Rights have certain anti-takeover effects, including potentially discouraging a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. The Rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms 26 Table of Contents not approved by the board of directors. On the other hand, the Rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by the board of directors since the Rights may be redeemed by us at the Redemption Price prior to the date ten days after the public announcement that a person or group has become the beneficial owner of 4.9% or more of the common stock, and any securities which a person or any of such persons affiliates may be deemed to have the right to acquire pursuant to any merger or other acquisition agreement between us and such person may be excluded from the calculation of their beneficial ownership if such agreement has been approved by the board of directors prior to them becoming an Acquiring Person. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and may lead to entrenchment of our management and board of directors. Our restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and third amended and restated bylaws, as amended, contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management or our board of directors. These provisions include: no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; in addition to our current stockholder rights plan, the ability of our board of directors to further issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the board of directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary at the request of the board of directors or upon the written request, stating the purpose of the meeting, of stockholders who together own of record 10% of the outstanding shares of each class of stock entitled to vote at such meeting, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirers own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. We have not opted out of this provision of Delaware law. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist stockholders, and such activism could impact the trading value of our securities. Stockholders may, from time to time, engage in proxy solicitations or advance stockholder proposals, or otherwise attempt to effect changes and assert influence on our board of directors and management. Activist campaigns that contest or conflict with our strategic direction or seek changes in the composition of our board of directors could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A proxy contest would require us to incur significant legal and advisory fees, proxy solicitation expenses and administrative and associated costs and require significant time and attention by our board of directors and management, diverting their attention from the pursuit of our business strategy. Any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and control, our ability to execute on our strategy, or changes to the composition of our board of directors or senior management team arising from a proxy contest could lead to the perception of a change in the direction of our business or instability which may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, make it more difficult to pursue our strategic initiatives, or limit our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If individuals are ultimately elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively implement our business strategy and create additional value for our stockholders. We may choose to initiate, or may become subject to, litigation as a result of the proxy contest or matters arising from the proxy contest, which would serve as a further distraction to our board of directors and management and would require us to incur significant additional costs. In addition, actions such as those described above could cause significant fluctuations in our stock price based upon temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our principal offices are located in Austin, Texas where we occupy approximately 15,000 square feet of office space under one operating lease that expires in July 2022. We also lease office suites in California, Florida, Nebraska, New York, North Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont, and Washington. Management believes that the leased properties described above are adequate to meet Asures current operational requirements and can accommodate further physical expansion of office space as needed. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Asure is periodically the defendant or plaintiff in actions arising in the normal course of business. No pending legal proceedings to which we are a party are material to us. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 28 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET INFORMATION Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol ASUR. DIVIDENDS We did not pay cash dividends on our common stock during fiscal years 2020 and 2019. We presently intend to continue a policy of retaining earnings for reinvestment in our business, rather than paying cash dividends. In addition, our Third Restated Credit Agreement contains limitations on our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. HOLDERS As of March 8, 2021, we had approximately 254 stockholders of record of our common stock. UNREGISTERED SALE OF EQUITY SECURITIES There were no unregistered sales of equity securities by us during the year ended December 31, 2020. SECURITIES AUTHORIZED FOR ISSUANCE UNDER EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS The following table provides information as of December 31, 2020 with respect to shares of our common stock that we may issue under our existing equity compensation plans (share amounts in thousands). A B C Plan Category Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options and Release of Nonvested RSUs Weighted Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in Column A)(3) Equity Compensation Plan Approved by Stockholders (1) 1,713 $ 7.92 1,244 Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Stockholders (2) Total 1,713 $ 7.92 1,244 (1) Consists of stock option awards granted under the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan and stock option and restricted stock unit awards granted under our 2018 Incentive Award Plan, which plan replaced our 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. (2) Our stockholders have previously approved our existing equity compensation plan. (3) In December 2019, we offered to exchange certain outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock previously granted under our prior and current equity incentive plans that have an exercise price per share higher than the greater of $8.50 or the closing trading price of our common stock on the offer expiration date for new restricted stock units. Subsequent to December 31, 2019, 280,500 additional shares became available for issuance as a result of the exchange. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA We are a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act and are not required to provide the information required under this Item. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Report represent forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding our strategy, future operations, financial condition, results of operations, projected costs, and plans and objectives of management. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements due to, among others, the risks and uncertainties described in this Report and in our other SEC filings. We have attempted to identify these forward-looking statements with the words believes, estimates, plans, expects, anticipates, may, will, could, should and other similar expressions. Although these forward-looking statements reflect managements current plans and expectations, which we believe reasonable as of the filing date of this Report, they inherently are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Additionally, we are is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to conform such statements to actual results. Overview We are a leading provider of cloud-based Human Capital Management (HCM) solutions, delivered as software-as-a-service (SaaS) for small and mid-sized businesses (SMBs). From recruitment to retirement, our solutions help more than 80,000 SMBs across the United States grow their businesses. About 10,000 of our clients are direct and the approximately 70,000 remaining are indirect as they have contracts with Reseller Partners that white label our solutions. We strive to be the most trusted HCM resource to entrepreneurs and are focused on less densely populated U.S. metropolitan cities where fewer of our competitors have a presence. Our solution strategy solves three primary challenges that prevent businesses from growing: HR complexity, allocation of human and financial capital, and the ability to build great teams. We have invested in, and we intend to continue to invest in, research and development to expand our solutions. Asure HCM, our user-friendly solution, reduces the administrative burden on employers and increases employee productivity while managing the complete employment lifecycle. The primary functions of our solutions address: Payroll and Tax - Asure Payroll & Tax is an integrated cloud-based solution that provides a foundation for our clients digital HR strategy. We automate all the complex and ever-changing regulations associated with payroll and taxes in all U.S. jurisdictions - from wages, benefits, overtime, and garnishments to tips, direct deposits, Fair Labor Standard Act ("FLSA"), and federal, state, and local payroll taxes. Human Resources - Asure HRs cloud-based functionality handles HR complexities that SMBs face, including employee self-service so employees can access all their information (e.g., pay history and company documents). With Asure HRs dashboard, clients have convenient single-system access to every facet of the employees lifecycle. This solution improves benefits management by syncing to carriers and integrating with employee self-managed enrollment and life-event change adjustments. Time and Attendance Asure Time & Attendance is primarily cloud based and combines with complementary hardware (time clocks and data collection devices) to provide cost savings and potential ROI gains in the form of a more strategic use of labor dollars and the elimination of time theft. Mobile time tracking helps executives better understand where and when their employees are working, providing insight into labor schedules and labor costs. With our mobile solution, employees can punch in and out from remote locations, as geo-positioning verifies the physical coordinates. Biometric time clocks, including facial recognition, reduce time theft and help combat "buddy punching." Automated system notifications, real-time dashboards, and flexible configuration options all work to streamline operations. Finally, employees, supervisors and executives have real-time access to data and business intelligence to optimize labor costing, improve labor scheduling, and control labor costs. HR Services - Our recurring HR Services allows clients to focus on running their businesses because we take responsibility for all of the traditional payroll and HR functions. We provide three core levels of HR services, ranging from a cloud-based online compliance library, to an on-demand call center for all HR questions, and to a fully outsourced HR function. We also support discreet functions like payroll administration and the benefit enrollment process. Data Integration - Our solutions also enable data integration with related third-party systems, such as 401(k), benefits, and insurance provider systems. 30 Table of Contents In addition to state-of-the-art platforms that are hosted in Amazon AWS and regular upgrades and releases, we provide clients with easy access to our skilled support team. Our services and support representatives are knowledgeable not just in the Asure solution, but also about best practices and change management strategies in the payroll and HCM industry. Many of Asures staff have professional certifications in payroll (Certified Payroll Professionals, CPPs) and human resources (Professional in Human Resources, PHR, and Senior Professional in Human Resource, SPHR, certifications). From installation to training and post-live support, our professional services team delivers a proficient client experience on a national scale. We sell our solutions through both direct and partner models. Prospective clients learn about Asure in a variety of ways, including advertising, web site searches, sales calls, public relations, referral channels, direct marketing, and social media. When prospective clients show an interest in Asure, they are connected with a sales representative, who works to close the sale, via Asures web site, phone, or a face-to-face meeting by discussing solutions that meet their needs. We track our marketing and sales activities to provide immediate insights into activities, leads and pipeline opportunities. Our account management teams also work with clients to promote and sell additional solutions that are relevant for each client. We supplement our direct sales efforts with partner programs. By working with partners, we gain access to opportunities in various geographic and industry niches. Asure has two distinct levels of partners: Reseller Partners and Referral Partners. Reseller Partners. Reseller Partners pay us recurring license fees to white label our solutions and then they focus on providing value-add services to their clients (our indirect clients). There are generally two types of Reseller Partners: regional payroll providers and SMB trusted advisors (CPA, regional banks, and benefit brokers). Regional payroll providers typically focus on a specific geographic area or industry. They have proven to be attractive alternatives for SMBs payroll and HCM needs versus the one-size-fits-all national payroll companies that do not necessarily understand the local needs of many businesses. Since trusted advisors are relied on by entrepreneurs and executives at SMBs to advise on payroll and HR decisions, white labeling our solutions allows them to provide additional solutions directly to their clients. This deepens their client relationships and grows their revenue. Asures Reseller Partners are also the primary source of Asures acquisitions. Since they already white label Asures solutions, technology integration risk is lessened. By acquiring Reseller Partners, we gain a presence in specific geographic (typically less densely populated U.S. metropolitan cities) and industry niches. These acquisitions help Asure gain scale by assuming all of the Reseller Partner's revenue instead of just a recurring licensing fees (which is typically a small percentage of their total revenue). Reseller Partners can continue to license our solutions with the opportunity to expand their available solutions, or they can come under the Asure umbrella. Referral Partners. Referral Partners are typically the aforementioned trusted advisors (e.g., regional banks, CPAs, and benefit brokers) that provide us with SMB leads but do not resell our solutions. Since SMBs rely on their trusted advisors to guide them in selecting payroll and HCM solutions, we have found this to be a fruitful source of leads. Referral Partners provide qualified leads that convert to clients at a higher rate than non-referral leads. We have been successful in nurturing some Referral Partners to become Reseller Partners over time as the referral relationships develop and they become more comfortable in the HCM space. We generate revenues from (i) fixed amounts charged per billing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed and (ii) fixed amounts charged per billing period. We do not require clients to enter into long-term contractual commitments with us. Our billing period varies by client based on when each client pays its employees, which may be weekly, bi-weekly, semi-monthly or monthly. We serve a diverse client base in terms of industry and geography. None of our clients constituted more than one-half of one percent of our revenues and no industry represented over 10% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020. Our revenues are generated through our salesforce that solicits new clients and our client relations representatives who sell new applications to existing clients as well as Reseller Partner recurring license fees. Our continued growth depends on attracting new clients through further penetration of our existing markets and geographic expansion into new markets by strategically acquiring Reseller Partners, targeting a high degree of client employee usage across our solution, and introducing new applications to our existing client base. We believe our ability to continue to develop new applications and to improve existing applications will enable us to increase revenues in the future. Furthermore, we believe the challenges of managing the ever-changing complexity of payroll and human resources will continue to drive companies to turn to outsourced providers for help with their HCM needs. The HCM industry historically has been driven, in part, by legislation and regulatory action, including COBRA, changes to the minimum wage laws or overtime rules, and legislation from federal, state or municipal taxation authorities. The implementation of the Affordable Care Act (the ACA) is an example of legislation that has created demand in the HCM industry. We generate ACA-related revenues (i) on an annual basis in connection with processing and filing Forms 1094 and 1095 on behalf of clients and (ii) from clients who have purchased our Enhanced ACA application as part of the fixed, bundled price charged per billing period. 31 Table of Contents While we were incorporated in 1985 and became publicly traded in 1992, we view ourselves as a young pure-play SaaS HCM provider with the appropriate people, processes, and technology to execute on our strategy. Our primary source of revenue is derived from Payroll & Tax solutions, which came with the acquisitions of Mangrove Software in 2016 and iSystems in 2017. Beginning in 2016, we rolled-up approximately 15 of our Reseller Partners that white labeled Mangrove and iSystems solutions. With our sale of our Workspace Management business in December 2019 and the subsequent transition services agreement that ended in June 2020, we became a pure-play SaaS HCM provider. Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak to be a global pandemic. In response, federal, state and local governments imposed various restrictions on social and commercial activity to promote social distancing in an effort to slow the spread of the disease, and many such restrictions remain in place. Beginning in February 2020, we took various actions in order to minimize the risk of COVID-19 to our employees, our clients, and the communities in which we operate, and in March 2020, we prohibited all business-related travel until further notice and began transitioning our employees to work-from-home arrangements. As of December 31, 2020, more than 90% of our employees were working remotely. We will continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions that alter our business operations as may be required by federal, state or local authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees and clients. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the operations of our clients and client prospects and may continue to do so for an indefinite period of time. Across many industries, temporary and permanent business closures as well as business occupancy limitations have resulted in significant layoffs and employee furloughs since late March 2020. Because we charge our clients on a per-employee basis for certain services we provide, decreases in headcount at our clients as of the onset of the pandemic negatively impacted our recurring revenue during 2020, and we expect that our recurring revenue in future periods will continue to be negatively impacted by such headcount reductions until employment levels among such client base return to pre-pandemic levels. Further, at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, a limited number of new clients temporarily delayed service implementation. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to create uncertainty and the potential for ongoing business disruptions, we may experience similar client-driven delays in service implementation in the future. During 2019, interest earned on funds held for clients contributed to growth in recurring revenue, due to both higher average interest rates and an increased average funds held for clients balance. Between August 2019 and March 2020, the Federal Open Market Committee reduced the target range for short-term interest rates several times, with the most significant rate cut occurring in March 2020 to support the economy and potentially reduce the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Further, a provision in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) allowed employers to delay the payment of the employers share of Social Security taxes to a future date. To the extent our clients made such an election, we collected less money from them to hold and then remit to the appropriate taxing authorities, which adversely affected our average funds held for clients balance and, consequently, interest earned on funds held for clients. During 2020, despite the growth in the number of clients in our base, employee headcount reductions at our clients as well as clients electing to defer payment of their share of Social Security taxes under the CARES Act resulted in nominal growth in our average funds held for clients balance, relative to 2019. Due to significantly lower average interest rates in 2020 and, to a lesser extent, the lack of growth of our average funds held for clients balance, interest earned on funds held for clients for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased from the year ended December 31, 2019, which had a negative effect on recurring revenue growth. The balance of funds held for clients was approximately $321,069 at December 31, 2020, compared with approximately $126,625 at December 31, 2019. Much of this increase was due to acquisitions in 2020. In 2020, we continued to aggressively invest in sales and marketing and in research and development to drive future growth and expand our market share. Lower headcount at our clients and the other pandemic-related factors described above, which had and may continue to have, a negative impact on recurring revenue, combined with increased sales and marketing and research and development expenses, resulted in a decrease in net income for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. We expect net income to be negatively affected by the impact of the pandemic on our recurring revenue and our deliberate, increased level of investment in sales and marketing and research and development to drive the growth of our business. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, our sales force historically traveled frequently to sell our solution. The current remote work environment presents a unique opportunity for our sales force, in that each sales employee is able to meet virtually with a greater number of client prospects in a given day than he or she would if conducting in-person meetings. Although we have not experienced such challenges to date, if clients and client prospects are not as willing or available to engage by video conference and teleconference, the shift from in-person to virtual sales meetings could negatively affect our sales efforts, impede client acquisition and lengthen our sales cycles, which would negatively impact our business and results of operations and could impact our financial condition in the future. 32 Table of Contents We are unable to estimate the full impact that the COVID-19 pandemic could have on our business and results of operations in the future due to numerous uncertainties, including the severity of the disease, the duration of the outbreak, actions that may be taken by governmental authorities, the impact it may have on the business of our clients and other factors identified in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in this Form 10-K. Given this, the effect of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and overall financial performance until future periods. Operating Segment We operate as one operating segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which the chief operating decision maker, who in our case is the chief executive officer, in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance, evaluates separate financial information regularly. During 2020, and over the last few years, we have completed a number of acquisitions. These acquisitions have allowed us to expand our offerings, presence and reach in various market segments of the human capital management market. Our business operates in one operating segment because our chief operating decision maker evaluates our financial information and resources and assesses the performance of these resources on a consolidated basis. Since we operate as one operating segment, all required financial segment information can be found in the consolidated financial statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussions of our results of continuing operations exclude the results related to the Workspace Management business which was sold in 2019. This business has been segregated from continuing operations and is reflected as a discontinued operation. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by certain items in Asures Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss): 2020 2019 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Gross margin 58.2 59.2 Selling, general and administrative 55.5 56.8 Research and development 9.1 7.3 Amortization of intangible assets 14.6 16.1 Total operating expenses 79.1 128.1 Loss from continuing operations before income taxes (24.4) (90.8) Net income (loss) (24.9) 41.0 Comparison of Fiscal 2020 to 2019 Basis of Presentation Revenue Revenues are comprised of recurring revenues, and implementation and other revenues. We expect our revenues to increase as we introduce new applications, expand our client base and renew and expand relationships with existing clients. As a percentage of total revenues, we expect our mix of recurring revenues, and implementation and other revenues to remain relatively constant. Recurring Revenues Recurring revenues include fees for our payroll, payroll tax, time and labor management, and other Asure HCM solutions as well as fees charged for form filings and delivery of client payroll checks and reports. These revenues are derived from (i) fixed amounts charged per billing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed or (ii) fixed amounts charged per billing period. We do not require clients to enter into long-term contractual commitments with us. Our billing period varies by client based on when each client pays its employees, which may be weekly, bi-weekly, semi-monthly or monthly. We also generate recurring revenue from our Reseller Partners that license our solutions. Because recurring revenues are based, in part, on fees for use of our applications and the delivery of checks and reports that are levied on a per-employee basis, our recurring revenues increase as our clients hire more employees. Recurring revenues are recognized in the period services are rendered. 33 Table of Contents Recurring revenues include revenues relating to the annual processing of payroll forms, such as Form W-2 and Form 1099, and revenues from processing unscheduled payroll runs (such as bonuses) for our clients. Because payroll forms are typically processed in the first quarter of the year and many of our clients are subject to ACA form filing requirements in the first quarter, first quarter revenues and margins are generally higher than in subsequent quarters. We anticipate our revenues will continue to exhibit this seasonal pattern related to ACA form filings for so long as the ACA (or replacement legislation) includes employer reporting requirements. In addition, we often experience increased revenues during the fourth quarter due to unscheduled payroll runs for our clients that occur before the end of the year. Therefore, we expect the seasonality of our revenue cycle to decrease to the extent clients utilize more of our non-payroll applications. Professional Services, Hardware and Other Revenues Professional Services, Hardware and Other Revenues represents implementation fees, one-time consulting projects, on premise maintenance, and hardware devices to enhance our software products. This revenue line also includes interest earned on funds held for clients. We collect funds from clients in advance of either the applicable due date for payroll tax submissions or the applicable disbursement date for employee payment services. These collections from clients are typically disbursed from one to 30 days after receipt, with some funds being held for up to 120 days. We typically invest funds held for clients in money market funds, demand deposit accounts, commercial paper, fixed income securities and certificates of deposit until they are paid to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. The amount of interest we earn from the investment of client funds is also impacted by changes in interest rates. Our revenue was derived from the following sources (Amounts in thousands): Revenue 2020 2019 Increase (Decrease) % Recurring revenue 63,315 $ 70,066 $ (6,751) (9.6) Professional services, hardware and other revenue 2,192 3,084 (892) (28.9) Total revenue $ 65,507 $ 73,150 $ (7,643) (10.4) Total revenue represents our consolidated revenues, including sales of our scheduling software, time and attendance and human resource software, as well as complementary hardware devices to enhance our software products. Most product groupings include cloud revenue, hardware revenue, maintenance and support revenue, on premise software license revenue as well as installation and services and other professional services revenue. Revenue mix varies by product. Excluding revenue from discontinued operations, our total revenue in 2020 was $65,507 as compared to $73,150 in 2019. Total revenue decreased by $(7,643), or (10.4)%, in 2020 as compared to 2019. Recurring revenue comprised the majority of the decrease with a decrease of $(6,751), or (9.6)%. Recurring revenue decreased primarily due to the impact of COVID and lower interest rates. Hardware and professional services revenue trended downward, partially offset by an increase in on premise software license revenue. Although our total customer base is widely spread across industries, our HCM sales are concentrated in small to mid-size businesses. We continue to target small and medium-sized businesses across industries as prospective customers. Geographically, we sell our HCM products in the United States. In addition to continuing to develop our workforce solutions and release of new software updates and enhancements, we continue to actively explore other opportunities to acquire additional products or technologies to complement our current software and services. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Consolidated gross profit was $38,093 in 2020 as compared to $43,314 in 2019, a decrease of $5,221, or (12.1)%. Gross margin as a percentage of revenues was 58.2% for 2020 and 59.2% for 2019. Our decline in gross margin is attributable to lower sales volumes primarily due to COVID, a growing investment in HCM service resources and personnel, maintaining COVID related tax codes, increased amortization of capitalized software costs as well as migration to secure cloud hosting services. Our cost of sales relates primarily to direct product costs, compensation for operations and related consulting expenses, hardware expenses, facilities and related expenses and the amortization of our purchased software development costs. We include intangible amortization related to developed and acquired technology within cost of sales. 34 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $36,340 in 2020 as compared to $41,535 in 2019, a decrease of $5,195, or (12.5)%. SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenues were 55.5% and 56.8% for 2020 and 2019, respectively. SG&A decreased due to selling of our Workspace business in 2019. Our other professional services, legal fees and rent decreased partially offset from the transition services agreement with FM:Systems in relation to the sale of the Workspace business in 2019, We may incur significant additional legal expenses and/or professional services-related expenses in the future if we pursue further acquisitions of products or businesses, even if we ultimately do not consummate any acquisition. Research and Development Expenses Research and development (R&D) expenses were $5,959 in 2020 as compared to $5,351 in 2019, an increase of $608, or 11.4%. R&D expenses as a percentage of revenues were 9.1% and 7.3% for 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our development efforts for future releases and enhancements are driven by feedback received from our existing and potential customers and by gauging market trends. We believe we have the appropriate development team to design and enhance our solution suite and integrated platform. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization expenses in 2020 were $9,547, a decrease of $(2,218), or (18.9)%, as compared to $11,765 in 2019. Amortization expenses as a percentage of revenues were 14.6% and 16.1% for 2020 and 2019, respectively. In 2019, we accelerated the amortization after a reassessment of the useful lives of certain trade names in relation to our rebranding efforts, resulting in an increase in amortization expense. Impairment of Goodwill There was no goodwill impairment recognized in 2020. During fiscal 2019, we determined that the estimated fair value of our HCM reporting unit was less than its carrying value. Therefore, we compared the carrying value of the reporting unit to its fair value in order to determine if an impairment exists. In addition to performing the income based approach discussed above we compared the market value of our common stock to our HCM reporting units carrying value noting its carrying value exceeded market value. A non-cash, before-tax impairment charge of $35,060 was recognized to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill to its estimated fair value as of December 31, 2019. Interest Expense and Other, net Interest expense and other, net was $(2,221) for the year ended 2020 as compared to $(16,005) in the year ended 2019. Interest expense and other, net is primarily comprised of interest expense on notes payable. Interest expense and other for the year ended 2019 is composed primarily of interest expense on notes payable. Income Taxes At December 31, 2020, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $48,435, and research and development (R&D) credit carryforwards of approximately $3,579. The net operating loss and R&D credit carryforwards will expire in varying amounts from 2021 through 2040, if not utilized. Income tax expense attributable to continuing operations increased from $(24,111) in 2019 to $337 in 2020, a $(24,448), or (101.4)%, decrease. These figures represent an effective tax rate of (2.1)% and 36.3% in 2020 and 2019, respectively. In 2020, we recorded income tax expense from continuing operations primarily due to deferred taxes on the amortization of goodwill for tax purposes. As a result of our various acquisitions in prior years, utilization of the net operating losses and credit carryforwards may be subject to a substantial annual limitation due to the change in ownership provisions of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The annual limitation may result in the expiration of net operating losses before utilization. Due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of realizing the benefits of our favorable tax attributes in future tax returns, we have placed a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax asset, exclusive of goodwill and jurisdictions in which we 35 Table of Contents have net deferred tax liabilities. During 2020, we increased the valuation allowance by approximately $1,688 due primarily to operations. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (Amounts in thousands) 2020 2019 Working capital $ 8,208 $ 17,854 Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments 28,577 28,826 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (1,707) (4,117) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (201,134) 85,632 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 202,592 (68,018) Working Capital . We had working capital of $8,208 at December 31, 2020, a decrease of $9,646 from $17,854 at December 31, 2019. We attribute the increase in our working capital primarily to an increase in cash and cash equivalents due to the divestiture of our Workspace Management business. Working capital at December 31, 2020 includes $5,838 of short term deferred revenue, an increase in short term deferred revenue of $338 compared to December 31, 2019. Deferred revenue is an obligation to perform future services. We expect that deferred revenue will convert to future revenue as we perform our services, but this does not represent future payments. Deferred revenue can vary based on seasonality, expiration of initial multi-year contracts and deals that are billed after implementation rather than in advance of service delivery. Operating Activities . Net cash used in operating activities was $1,707 in 2020. The $1,707 of cash provided by operating activities during 2020 was primarily driven by our net loss of $16,311 and increases in deferred revenue of $128, and decreases in accrued expenses and other long-term obligations of $4,596. This was offset by non-cash adjustments of $20,908, decreases in accounts receivable of $1,118 and increases in inventory of $11, and decreases in accounts payable of $448 and $911 of prepaid expenses and other assets. Net cash used in operating activities was $(4,117) in 2019. The $(4,117) of cash used in operating activities during 2019, including discontinued operations, was primarily driven by our net income of $30,001 and increases in deferred revenue of $5,662, and accrued expenses and other long-term obligations of $5,649. This was offset by non-cash adjustments of $(35,215), increases in accounts receivable of $1,446 and inventory of $1,581, and a decrease in accounts payable of $3,174. Investing Activities . Net cash used in investing activities during 2020 was $(201,134), primarily due to the net change in funds held for clients and our acquisitions of three payroll processing and payroll tax businesses during the year. Cash provided by investing activities during 2019 was $85,632. The cash provided by investing activities in 2019 is primarily driven by the proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations. Financing Activities . Net cash provided by financing activities of $202,592 in 2020 was primarily due to the net change in client funds of $184,823, net proceeds from issuance of our common stock of $21,392, and proceeds from note payable of $8,856, partial offset by payments of our note payables of $12,234. Net cash used in financing activities of $(68,018) in 2019 was primarily due to the payments of our notes payable and debt financing costs. Sources of Liquidity . As of December 31, 2020, Asures principal sources of liquidity consisted of approximately $28,577 of cash and cash equivalents, future cash generated from operations of our business over the next twelve months, and $4,500 available for borrowing under our Wells Fargo revolver. Based on current internal projections, we believe that we have and/or will generate sufficient cash for our operational needs for at least the next twelve months from issuance of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We continue to be focused on growing our existing software operations and seeking accretive and complimentary strategic acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. We believe the available sources of liquidity described above will be sufficient to fund such growth activities but may raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to supplement those sources as we execute on our growth plan. Underwriting Agreement In December 2020, we completed an underwritten public offering 2,990,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $7.25. We realized gross proceeds of approximately $21,700 before deducting underwriting discounts and estimated offering expenses. 36 Table of Contents Credit Agreement Due to the effects of COVID-19 on our business, we were not in compliance with our minimum EBITDA financial covenant as of March 31, 2020. This covenant was set in December 31, 2019, before the COVID-19 pandemic and its possible effects on our business were known to our senior lender or us. On July 10, 2020, our senior lender issued a reservation of rights letter related to our failure to comply with the minimum EBITDA financial covenant, along with other technical defaults. Following this default, we negotiated and entered a waiver and amendment to our Credit Agreement and our Amended and Restated Guaranty and Security Agreement (the Amendment) on August 10, 2020. The Amendment reduced our facility from $30,000 to $15,000, consisting of $10,000 in term loans and a $5,000 revolver. As a result, we were required to make a principal payment of $9,750 on our outstanding term loans. The Amendment provides for an accordion feature to our term loan that would allow us to borrow up to an additional $15,000 in term loans subject to certain conditions following the Covenant Conversion Date, which is described below. The Amendment also reset our financial covenants and added a new financial covenant for minimum recurring revenue. The Amendment does not require that we meet our fixed charge ratio or leverage ratio covenant until the Covenant Conversion Date. The Coverage Conversion Date is the earlier of August 10, 2022 or the date in which we have satisfied the fixed charge coverage ratio and leverage ratio for two consecutive reporting periods. Until such time, we are only obligated to comply with our minimum EBITDA and minimum recurring revenue covenants. In addition to the requirement that we pay $9,750 on our outstanding term loans, we were also required to pay our senior lender an amendment fee of $225. Our senior lender waived any prepayment penalty that would have otherwise been due on the $9,750 payment toward our term loan and agreed that we would not owe a prepayment penalty if we were to refinance our facility before December 31, 2020. Finally, as a condition to the amendment, our senior lender required that we agree to obtain lender consent for any acquisitions until the later of August 10, 2021 or the Covenant Conversion Date. Previously certain types of acquisitions were deemed permitted acquisitions, which did not require our lenders consent. We do not anticipate an issue with obtaining consent from our lender for accretive acquisitions. We had sufficient cash on hand to make the required payment of $9,750 in connection with the Amendment and expect to have enough cash on hand to meet our future business needs. Further, we expect to comply with our financial covenants in future quarters under the Credit Agreement, as amended by the Amendment. Also, due to the effects of Covid-19 on our business and the related need to support our operations, we applied for and received a loan from Pinnacle Bank under the Paycheck Protection Program during the second quarter of 2020. Under the terms of our note with Pinnacle Bank, principal payments would have begun in November 2020. However, the Small Business Administration, who administers loans issued under the Paycheck Protection Program, has issued guidance, deferring all payments that would be owed on this loan until the Small Business Administration makes a decision on our loan forgiveness application. While we expect that the entire loan will be forgiven, we cannot be certain that the Small Business Administration will grant forgiveness of our entire loan. If we do not receive forgiveness of our entire loan, we will be obligated to begin repaying the portion of the principal and interest that is not forgiven such that it is fully paid no later than April 15, 2022, unless we are able to negotiate new payment terms with Pinnacle Bank. Further, if the portion of the PPP Loan that is not forgiven (the Unforgiven Debt) exceeds $3,250 or requires monthly payments of principal and interest in excess of $185, it is likely we will be in default under our Credit Agreement unless we obtain a waiver from our senior lender or are otherwise able to negotiate acceptable terms with our senior lender and Pinnacle Bank. We applied our initial application for forgiveness of this loan in December 2020 and completed this application in early Febuary 2021. Given this, we expect that payments we may owe, if any, would not start until second quarter of 2021. Under GAAP, we are required to report this entire loan as outstanding debt in our financial statements and further identify the current portion of this debt (e.g. amounts which would be payable in the next 12 months) with reference to the actual terms of our note with Pinnacle Bank. Notwithstanding how this loan is reported in our financial statements, we do not expect to make any payments on this note until at least second quarter of 2021, and then only to the extent that any portion of this note is not forgiven in accordance with the terms of the Paycheck Protection Program. As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, no amount was outstanding and $4,500 and $10,000, respectively, was available for borrowing under the revolver. As of December 31, 2020, we are in compliance with our financial covenants under the Amendment and all payments remain current. We expect to be in compliance or be able to obtain compliance through debt repayments with available cash on hand or cash we expect to generate from the ordinary course of operations over the next twelve months. 37 Table of Contents See Note 6 - Notes Payable in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information about the Credit Agreement. We cannot assure that we can grow our cash balances or limit our cash consumption and thus maintain sufficient cash balances for our planned operations or future acquisitions. Future business demands may lead to cash utilization at levels greater than recently experienced. We may need to raise additional capital in the future in order to grow our existing software operations and to seek additional strategic acquisitions in the near future. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to raise additional capital on acceptable terms, or at all. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We have prepared our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and included the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries. We have eliminated all significant intercompany transactions and balances in the consolidation. Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of the assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at fiscal year-end and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the fiscal year. The more significant estimates made by management include the valuation allowance for our gross deferred tax asset, lease impairment, useful lives of fixed assets, the determination of the fair value of our long-lived assets and the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed during acquisitions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that management believes are reasonable under the given circumstances. These estimates could be materially different under different conditions and assumptions. Additionally, the actual amounts could differ from the estimates made. Management periodically evaluates estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements for continued reasonableness. We prospectively apply appropriate adjustments, if any, to our estimates based upon our periodic evaluation. We believe the following are our critical accounting policies: Revenue Recognition Our revenue consists of software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings and time-based software subscription license agreements that also, typically include hardware, maintenance/support, and professional services elements. We recognize revenue on an output basis when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, we allocate revenue to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. We determine standalone selling prices based on the amount that we believe the market is willing to pay determined through historical analysis of sales data as well as through use of the residual approach when we can estimate the standalone selling price for one or more, but not all, of the promised goods or services. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , and ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of Effective Date, which deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year. ASU 2014-09 (Topic 606) Revenue from Contracts with Customers) supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 605, Revenue Recognition, and is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. It also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue, cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments, and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. The adoption of ASU 2014-09, using the modified retrospective approach, had no significant impact on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. The initial application was applied to all contracts at the date of initial application. We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. We recorded a $1,500 cumulative effect adjustment to opening retained earnings as of January 1, 2018 related to an increase in deferred commissions. There was no impact to revenue as a result of applying Topic 606. The primary impact of adopting Topic 606 is to sales commissions related to onboarding new clients that were previously expensed. Under the new standard, these costs are now capitalized as deferred commissions and amortized over the estimated customer life of five to ten years. 38 Table of Contents The terms of our contracts with customers range from month to month for some Asure HCM direct clients to longer terms ranging from one to three years, some of which are renewable for successive terms. A typical SaaS/software subscription arrangement will also include hardware, setup and implementation services. Revenue allocated to the SaaS/software subscription performance obligations are recognized on an output basis ratably as the service is provided over the non-cancellable term of the SaaS/subscription service and are reported as Recurring revenue on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss. Revenue allocated to other performance obligations included in the arrangement is recognized as outlined in the paragraphs below. Hardware devices sold to customers are sold as either a standard product sell arrangement where title to the hardware passes to the customer or under a hardware-as-a-service (HaaS) arrangement where the title to the hardware remains with Asure. Revenue allocated to hardware sold as a standard product are recognized on an output basis when title passes to the customer, typically the date we ship the hardware. Revenue allocated to hardware under a hardware-as-a-service (HaaS) arrangement are recognized on an output basis, recorded ratably as the service is provided over the non-cancellable term of the HaaS arrangement, typically one year. Revenue recognized from hardware devices sold to customers via either of the two above types of arrangements are reported as Hardware revenue on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss. Our professional services offerings typically include data migration, set up, training, and implementation services. Set up and implementation services typically occur at the start of the software arrangement while certain other professional services, depending on the nature of the services and customer requirements, may occur several months later. We can reasonably estimate professional services performed for a fixed fee and we recognize allocated revenue on an output basis on a proportional performance basis as the service is provided. We recognize allocated revenue on an output basis for professional services engagements billed on a time and materials basis as the service is provided. We recognize allocated revenue on an output basis on all other professional services engagements upon the earlier of the completion of the services deliverable or the expiration of the customers right to receive the service. Revenue recognized from professional services offerings are reported as Professional service revenue on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss. We recognize allocated revenue for maintenance/support on an output basis ratably over the non-cancellable term of the support agreement. Initial maintenance/support terms are typically one to three years and are renewable on an annual basis. Revenue recognized from maintenance/support are reported as Maintenance and support revenue on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss). We do not recognize revenue for agreements with rights of return, refundable fees, cancellation rights or substantive acceptance clauses until these return, refund or cancellation rights have expired or acceptance has occurred. Our arrangements with resellers do not allow for any rights of return. Our payment terms vary by the type of customer and the customers payment history and the products or services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant and as such our contracts do not include a significant financing component. The transaction prices of our contracts do not include consideration amounts that are variable and do not include noncash consideration. Deferred revenue includes amounts invoiced to customers in excess of revenue we recognize, and is comprised of deferred SaaS/software, HaaS, Maintenance and support, and Professional services revenue. We recognize deferred revenue when we complete the service and over the terms of the arrangements, primarily ranging from one to three years. Intangible Assets and Goodwill We record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition, with any excess purchase price recorded as goodwill. Valuation of intangible assets and in-process research and development entails significant estimates and assumptions including, but not limited to, estimating future cash flows from product sales, developing appropriate discount rates, estimating probability rates for the continuation of customer relationships and renewal of customer contracts and approximating the useful lives of the intangible assets acquired. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that we not amortize intangible assets other than goodwill with an indefinite life until we determine their life as finite. We must amortize all other intangible assets over their useful lives. We currently amortize our acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from one to nine years. We have assessed the fair value of our customer relationship intangible assets as of December 31, 2020, we do not believe these to be impaired, as the carrying value of the customer relationship intangible assets are recoverable through the associated project cash flows. 39 Table of Contents Impairment of Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets In accordance with FASB ASC 350, we review and evaluate our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that we may not recover their net book value. When such factors and circumstances exist, including those noted above, we compare the assets carrying amounts against the estimated undiscounted cash flows we expect to generate with those assets over their estimated useful lives. If the carrying amounts are greater than the undiscounted cash flows, we estimate the fair values of those assets by discounting the projected cash flows. We record any excess of the carrying amounts over the fair values as impairments in that fiscal period. In 2019, we accelerated the amortization after a reassessment of the useful lives of certain trade names in relation to our rebranding efforts. There has been no other impairment of intangible assets and long-lived assets for the periods presented. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price in a business combination over the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter of each year, and between annual tests if indicators of potential impairment exist, using a fair-value-based approach. There has been no impairment of goodwill in 2020. In 2019, we recognized an impairment loss on goodwill. See Notes 4 and 5 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding goodwill. Income Taxes We account for income taxes using the liability method under ASC 740, Accounting for Income Taxes, which requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events included in the financial statements. Under the liability method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect in the years in which we expect the differences to reverse. We reduce deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that we will not realize some component or all of the deferred tax assets. See Note 2 Significant Account Policies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information about Recent Accounting Pronouncements.