Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Key Business Metrics for additional information about our customer base. Our Competition Our products serve teams of all shapes and sizes in every industry, from software and technical teams to IT and service teams, to a broad array of business teams. Our competitors range from large technology vendors to new and emerging businesses in each of the markets we serve: Software Teams - Our competitors include large technology vendors, including Microsoft (including GitHub) and IBM, and smaller companies like Gitlab that offer project management, collaboration and developer tools. IT Teams- Our competitors range from cloud vendors, including ServiceNow, PagerDuty, and Freshworks, to legacy vendors such as BMC Software (Remedy) that offer service desk solutions. 10 Business Teams - Our competitors range from large technology vendors, including Microsoft and Alphabet, that offer a suite of products, to smaller companies like Asana, Monday.com, Notion and Smartsheet, which offer point solutions for team collaboration. In most cases, due to the flexibility and breadth of our products, we co-exist within our own customer base alongside many of our competitors products, such as Microsoft, Gitlab, ServiceNow and Asana. The principal competitive factors in our markets include product capabilities, flexibility, total cost of ownership, ease of access and use, performance and scalability, integration, customer satisfaction and global reach. Our product strategy, distribution model and company culture allow us to compete favorably on all these factors. Our focus on research and development allows us to rapidly innovate and offer a breadth of powerful products that are easy to use, integrated, and delivered through multiple deployment options. Our high-velocity, low-friction online distribution model allows us to efficiently reach customers globally, and we complement this with our network solution partners and sales teams that focus on expansion within our largest customers. Our culture enables us to focus on customer success through superior products, transparent pricing and world-class customer support. Intellectual Property We protect our intellectual property through a combination of trademarks, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents, as well as contractual provisions and restrictions governing access to our proprietary technology. We registered Atlassian as a trademark in the United States, Australia, the EU, Russia, China, Japan, Switzerland, Norway, Singapore, Israel, Korea, and Canada, as well as other jurisdictions. We have also registered or filed for trademark registration of product-related trademarks and logos in the United States, Australia, the EU, Brazil, Russia, India, and China, and certain other jurisdictions, and will pursue additional trademark registrations to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost effective. As of June 30, 2024, we had 501 issued patents and have approximately 300 applications pending in the United States. We also have a number of patent applications pending before the European Patent Office. These patents and patent applications seek to protect proprietary inventions relevant to our business. We intend to pursue additional patent protection to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost effective. We are the registered holder of a variety of domain names that include Atlassian and similar variations. In addition to the protection provided by our registered intellectual property rights, we protect our intellectual property rights by imposing contractual obligations on third parties who develop or access our technology. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors and business partners. Our employees, consultants and contractors are also subject to invention assignment agreements, pursuant to which we obtain rights to technology that they develop for us. We further protect our rights in our proprietary technology and intellectual property through restrictive license and service use provisions in both the general and product-specific terms of use on our website and in other business contracts. Governmental Regulations As a public company with global operations, we are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations, which may differ among jurisdictions, include, among others, those related to financial and other disclosures, accounting standards, privacy and data protection, intellectual property, AI and machine learning, corporate governance, tax, government contracting, trade, antitrust and competition, employment, import/export, and anti-corruption. Compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and could, individually or in the aggregate, increase our cost of doing business, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. For a further discussion of the risks associated with government regulations that may materially impact us, see Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Human Capital Management We believe our employees to be our greatest asset, and we strive to foster a collaborative, productive, and fun work environment. As of June 30, 2024, we had 12,157 full-time employees. We also engage temporary employees and consultants as needed to support our operations. 11 In order to support a talented, global, and distributed workforce that reflects our core values and enables us to drive positive value for our customers, we emphasize building and maintaining a strong culture. We also invest in a sustainability program, diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives, and our total rewards program, which includes competitive compensation and benefits and a distributed work approach. Our efforts have led to external recognition for our workplace and Company. Our Culture Our company culture is exemplified by our core values. These values guide what we do, why we create, and who we hire. Open company, no bullshit Openness is root level for us. Information is open internally by default and sharing is a first principle. And we understand that speaking your mind requires equal parts brains (what to say), thoughtfulness (when to say it), and caring (how its said). Play, as a team We spend a huge amount of our time at work. So the more that time doesnt feel like work, the better. We can be serious, without taking ourselves too seriously. We strive to put whats right for the team first whether in a meeting room or on a football pitch. Build with heart and balance Measure twice, cut once. Whether you're building a birdhouse or a business, this is good advice. Passion and urgency infuse everything we do, alongside the wisdom to consider options fully and with care. Then we make the cut, and we get to work. Be the change you seek All Atlassians should have the courage and resourcefulness to spark change to make better our products, our people, our place. Continuous improvement is a shared responsibility. Action is an independent one. Dont #@!% the customer Customers are our lifeblood. Without happy customers, were doomed. So considering the customer perspective - collectively, not just a handful - comes first. Our culture plays a key role in our ability to attract, retain, and develop a talented, global, and distributed workforce and our ability to drive customer value and achieve competitive differentiation. Sustainability Atlassians sustainability strategy is focused on the Companys impact on our planet, people and customers. Atlassian has set science-based targets to achieve net zero emissions by 2040, invested in a diversity, equity, and inclusion program, committed to respecting human rights, and laid out guiding principles, commitments, and practices for responsible technology. 12 We publish an annual Sustainability Report that details our sustainability progress, including information about our strategy, workforce and emissions data, and responsible technology approaches. Our Sustainability Report aligns to leading reporting frameworks including the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. The latest Sustainability Report can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website, under the Sustainability tab. The contents of these materials, or the contents of those materials accessible through our website, are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Atlassians diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) strategy is focused on building a diverse Atlassian team, ensuring equitable outcomes for all, and fostering inclusive experiences. Our DEI philosophy is centered around a structural approachembedding anti-biasing principles and techniques across our talent programs. This includes conducting a global pay equity audit annually, beginning in fiscal year 2023, with the goal of ensuring that Atlassians doing like-for-like work are paid fairly and equitably. We also aim to increase inclusion across the company through remote-first employee resource groups. Our annual Sustainability Report details the progress of our DEI strategy. The Sustainability Report can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website, under the Sustainability tab. The contents of these materials, or the contents of those materials accessible through our website, are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Team Anywhere We call our approach to distributed work Team Anywhere. The vast majority of our employees are offered the choice to work from their homes, our physical office locations, or any combination of the two, within 14 countries. We strive to use an evidence-based approach to create an effective and collaborative workforce, and as such, promote programs like intentionally planned in-person team gatherings in order to foster employee engagement and connectivity. We believe our Team Anywhere approach allows for a variety benefits, including greater flexibility for our employees and broadening our talent pool beyond the urban hubs in which we have physical office locations. Total Rewards Atlassian aims to offer its employees competitive compensation and benefits packages, which are reviewed annually. Our employees are compensated through a combination of fixed and variable or incentive-based cash compensation. Certain employees are also awarded equity compensation in the form of restricted stock units. We also offer a variety of benefits intended to support employees and their families and help employees engage with their local communities. These benefits vary by country and are designed to meet or exceed local laws and to be competitive in the regions in which we operate. Beyond standard benefits like paid time off and healthcare coverage, our employee benefits include paid parental leave, family formation assistance, flexible working arrangements, wellness reimbursements, mental well-being support, and learning and development resources. Available Information You can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at https://investors.atlassian.com/financials/sec-filings as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish any of these reports with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of, or accessible through, these websites are not incorporated into this filing and our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in our other public filings. If any such risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other risks and uncertainties, actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be harmed substantially. 13 Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those highlighted in this section titled Risk Factors and summarized below. We have various categories of risks, including risks related to our business and industry, risks related to information technology, intellectual property, data security and privacy, risks related to legal, regulatory, accounting, and tax matters, risks related to ownership of our Class A Common Stock, risks related to our indebtedness, and general risks, which are discussed more fully below. As a result, this risk factor summary does not contain all of the information that may be important to you, and you should read this risk factor summary together with the more detailed discussion of risks and uncertainties set forth following this summary, as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks include, but are not limited, to the following: Our historical rapid growth makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects, and we may not be able to sustain our revenue growth rate or achieve profitability in the future. The continuing global economic and geopolitical volatility, and measures taken in response, could harm our business and results of operations. The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Our use of generative AI and machine learning in our platform and our business, as well as our potential failure to effectively implement, use, and market these technologies, may result in reputational harm or liability, or could otherwise adversely affect our business. We may encounter challenges to our business as we transition our business to focusing more on our cloud offerings. Our business depends on our customers renewing their subscriptions and purchasing additional licenses or subscriptions from us, and any decline in our customer retention or expansion could harm our future results of operations. If we are not able to develop new products and enhancements to our existing products that achieve market acceptance and that keep pace with technological developments, our business and results of operations could be harmed. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and results of operations could be harmed. If our marketing model is not effective in attracting new customers or we are unable to realize the benefits of our free trial strategy, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our business model relies on a high volume of transactions and affordable pricing. As lower cost or free products are introduced by our competitors, our ability to generate new customers could be harmed. We may encounter challenges as we develop our enterprise sales force. If our security controls are compromised, leading to unauthorized or inappropriate access to customer data, our products could be perceived as insecure, and such perception may result in the loss of existing customers, hinder our ability to attract new ones, and expose us to significant liabilities. Interruptions or performance problems associated with our technology and infrastructure could harm our business and results of operations. Real or perceived errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs in our products or in the products on Atlassian Marketplace could harm our business and results of operations. Privacy concerns and laws as well as evolving regulation of cloud computing, AI services, cross-border data transfer restrictions and other domestic or foreign regulations may limit the use and adoption of our services and adversely affect our business and results of operation. Our current and future indebtedness may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities or operating activities. Our global operations and structure subject us to potentially adverse tax consequences. The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with certain stockholders, in particular, our Co-Founders and their affiliates, which will limit our other stockholders ability to influence the outcome of important transactions, including a change in control. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our historical rapid growth makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects, and we may not be able to sustain our revenue growth rate or achieve profitability in the future. 14 We have experienced rapid growth in recent years and such growth rate should not be considered indicative of our future performance and may decline in the future. This rapid growth also makes it more challenging to evaluate our future prospects. Our revenue growth rate has fluctuated in prior periods and, in future periods, our revenue could grow more slowly than it has in the past or decline for a number of reasons, including any reduction in demand for our products, increase in competition, limitations on our ability to, or any decision not to, increase pricing, a slower than anticipated adoption of or migration to our Cloud offerings, failure to capitalize on growth opportunities, contraction in our overall market, or impact from broader macroeconomic factors. As one example, we have seen expansion from existing customers moderate in recent quarters, particularly amongst our small and medium-sized customers. Additionally, we ceased sales of new perpetual license Server offerings for our products in February 2021, and, subject to limited exceptions, ended maintenance and support for Server products in February 2024. If our Server customers did not transition to our Cloud or Data Center offerings, or if our Data Center customers do not migrate to our Cloud offerings, our revenue growth rates and profitability may be negatively impacted. We make assumptions regarding the risks and uncertainties associated with our growth as we plan and operate our business. If our assumptions are incorrect or change, or if we do not address risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations, our growth rates may slow, and our business would suffer. In addition, we expect our expenses to increase substantially in the near term, particularly as we continue to make significant investments in research and development and technology infrastructure for our Cloud offerings, expand our operations globally and develop new products and features for, and enhancements of, our existing products, including our AI products. As a result of these significant investments, and in particular stock-based compensation associated with our growth, we have not in the past and may not in the future be able to achieve profitability as determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The additional expenses we will incur may not lead to sufficient additional revenue to maintain historical revenue growth rates and profitability. The continuing global economic and geopolitical volatility, and measures taken in response, could harm our business and results of operations. Large-scale international events in recent years, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and geopolitical instability and war in regions including Ukraine and the Middle East, have negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains, and created significant volatility and disruption of financial markets. There has also been historically high inflation, which caused the Federal Reserve to tighten monetary policy, including issuing a series of interest rate hikes. This has contributed to the failures of certain banking institutions and otherwise uncertain economic conditions. Our business depends on demand for business software applications generally and for collaboration software solutions in particular. The market adoption of our products and our revenue is dependent on the number of users of our products. The continuing global economic and geopolitical volatility has and may continue to cause us and our customers to experience decreased demand for our products and services, increases in our operating costs (including our labor costs), reduced liquidity, and limits on our ability to access credit or otherwise raise capital. They could reduce the number of personnel providing development or engineering services, decrease technology spending, including the purchasing of software products, adversely affect demand for our products, affect our ability to accurately forecast our future results, cause some of our paid customers or suppliers to file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business, impact expected spending from new customers or renewals, expansions or reductions in paid seats from existing customers, negatively impact collections of accounts receivable, result in elongated sales cycles, and otherwise harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In particular, we have revenue exposure to customers who are small- and medium-sized businesses. If these customers business operations and finances are negatively affected, they may not purchase or renew our products, may reduce or delay spending, or request extended payment terms or price concessions, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, rising interest rates and uncertain economic conditions have contributed to the failures of banking institutions, such as Silicon Valley Bank and First Republic Bank. While we have not had any direct exposure to failed banking institutions to date, if other banks and financial institutions enter receivership or become insolvent in the future in response to financial conditions affecting the banking system and financial markets, our ability or our customers ability to access existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments may be threatened and affect our customers ability to pay for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 15 The extent to which global economic and geopolitical factors ultimately impact our business, results of operations, and financial position will depend on future developments, which are uncertain and cannot be fully predicted at this time. As a result of recent events, we have seen the revenue growth from existing customers moderate and experienced volatility in the trading prices for our Class A Common Stock, and such volatility may continue in the long term. Any sustained adverse impacts from these and other recent macroeconomic events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and earnings guidance that we may issue from time to time, which could have a material effect on the value of our Class A Common Stock. They could also heighten many of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed. The markets for our solutions are fragmented, rapidly evolving, highly competitive, and have relatively low barriers to entry. We face competition from both traditional, larger software vendors offering full collaboration and productivity suites and smaller companies offering point products for features and use cases. Our principal competitors vary depending on the product category and include Microsoft (including GitHub), IBM, Alphabet, ServiceNow, PagerDuty, Gitlab, Freshworks, BMC Software (Remedy), Asana, Monday.com, Notion and Smartsheet. In addition, some of our competitors have made acquisitions to offer a more comprehensive product or service offering, which may allow them to compete more effectively with our products. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry. Following such potential consolidations, companies may create more compelling product offerings and be able to offer more attractive pricing options, making it more difficult for us to compete effectively. Our competitors, particularly our competitors with greater financial and operating resources, may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or customer requirements. With the adoption of new technologies, such as AI and machine learning, the evolution of our products, and new market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. For example, our competitors may more successfully incorporate AI into their products, gain or leverage superior access to certain AI technologies, and achieve higher market acceptance of their AI solutions.In addition, as we continue to expand our focus into new use cases or other product offerings beyond software development teams, we expect competition to increase. Pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses, or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources than we do, with established marketing relationships, large enterprise sales forces, access to larger customer bases, pre-existing customer relationships, and major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and resellers. Additionally, some current and potential customers, particularly large organizations, have elected, and may in the future elect, to develop or acquire their own internal collaboration and productivity software tools that would reduce or eliminate the demand for our solutions. Our products seek to serve multiple markets, and we are subject to competition from a wide and varied field of competitors. Some competitors, particularly new and emerging companies with sizeable venture capital investment, could focus all their energy and resources on one product line or use case and, as a result, any one competitor could develop a more successful product or service in a particular market we serve which could decrease our market share and harm our brand recognition and results of operations. For all of these reasons and others we cannot anticipate today, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly financial results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow us, the price of our Class A Common Stock could decline substantially. Factors that may cause our revenue, results of operations and cash flows to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include, but are not limited to: our ability to attract new customers, retain and increase sales to existing customers, and satisfy our customers requirements; 16 the timing of customer renewals; changes in our or our competitors pricing policies and offerings; new products, features, enhancements, or functionalities introduced by our competitors; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operations and expansion of our business; significant security breaches, technical difficulties, or interruptions to our products or third-party products on which we rely; our increased focus on our Cloud offerings, including customer migrations to our Cloud products; our ability to incorporate artificial intelligence solutions and features into our platform; the number of new employees added or, conversely, reductions in force; changes in foreign currency exchange rates or adding additional currencies in which our sales are denominated; the amount and timing of acquisitions or other strategic transactions; extraordinary expenses such as litigation, tax settlements, adverse audit rulings or other dispute-related settlement payments; general economic conditions, such as recent inflation and interest rate changes, that may adversely affect either our customers ability or willingness to purchase additional licenses, subscriptions, delay a prospective customers purchasing decisions, reduce the value of new license or subscription, or affect customer retention; the impact of U.S. and international political and social unrest, armed conflict, natural disasters, climate change, diseases and pandemics, and any associated economic downturn, on our results of operations and financial performance; seasonality in our operations; the impact of new accounting pronouncements and associated system implementations; and the timing of the grant or vesting of equity awards to employees, contractors, or directors. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them might cause our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows to vary widely. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our use of generative AI and machine learning in our platform and our business, as well as our potential failure to effectively implement, use, and market these technologies, may result in reputational harm or liability, or could otherwise adversely affect our business. We have incorporated and expect to continue to incorporate AI and machine learning solutions and features, including generative AI solutions and features, into our platform, and otherwise within our business, and these solutions and features may become more important to our operations or to our future growth over time. There can be no assurance that the use of AI and machine learning solutions and features will enhance our products or services, produce intended results, or be beneficial to our business, including our efficiency or profitability, and we may fail to properly implement or market our AI and machine learning solutions and features. Our investments in AI solutions and features have and may continue to negatively impact our operating margins until we are able to increase revenue enough to offset these investments. Our competitors or other third parties may incorporate AI into their products, offerings, and solutions more quickly or more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, suppliers of the third-party AI models we use in our platform could terminate their relationship with us, cease to make certain models available to us, or make certain models more expensive for us to use. Our ability to effectively implement and market our AI solutions and features will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain employees with AI expertise, and we expect significant competition for professionals with such skills and technical knowledge. 17 Additionally, our AI and machine learning solutions and features may expose us to additional claims, demands, and proceedings by private parties and regulatory authorities and subject us to legal liability as well as brand and reputational harm. There are significant risks involved in utilizing AI and machine learning technologies, and in particular, generative AI technologies. For example, AI and machine learning algorithms may be flawed, insufficient, or of poor quality, reflect unwanted forms of bias, or contain other errors or inadequacies, any of which may not easily be detectable. AI and machine learning technologies have also been known to produce false or hallucinatory inferences or outputs. Further, inappropriate or controversial data practices by developers and end-users, or other factors adversely affecting public opinion regarding the use of AI and machine learning, could impair the acceptance of AI and machine learning solutions, including those incorporated into our products and services. If the AI and machine learning tools incorporated into our platform, or the content generated by such tools, is harmful, biased, inaccurate, discriminatory or controversial, our results of operations could suffer, including due to legal, competitive and reputational harm. Our customers may be less likely to utilize our AI and machine learning tools or may cease using our platform altogether. If we do not have sufficient rights to use the output of such AI and machine learning tools, or the data or other material or content on which the AI and machine learning tools we use rely, we also may incur liability through the violation of applicable laws and regulations, third-party intellectual property, privacy or other rights, or contracts to which we are a party. In addition, we are subject to the risks of new or enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny, litigation, or other legal liability, ethical concerns, negative consumer perceptions as to automation and AI and machine learning technologies, any of which could adversely affect our business, reputation, or financial results. The technologies underlying AI and machine learning and their uses are subject to a variety of laws and regulations related to online services, intermediary liability, intellectual property rights, privacy, data security and data protection, consumer protection, competition and equal opportunity laws, and are expected to be subject to increased regulation and new laws or new applications of existing laws and regulations. AI and machine learning technologies are the subject of ongoing review by various federal, state and foreign governments and regulators, which are applying, or are considering applying, their platform moderation, privacy, data security and data protection laws and regulations to such technologies or are considering general legal frameworks for the appropriate use of AI and machine learning. As the legal, regulatory, and policy environments around AI and machine learning evolve, we may become subject to new legal and regulatory obligations in connection with our use of AI and machine learning technology, which could require us to make significant changes to our policies and practices, necessitating expenditure of significant time, expense, and other resources. We may not be able to anticipate how to respond to rapidly evolving legal frameworks, and we may have to expend resources to adjust our offerings in certain jurisdictions if the legal frameworks on AI and machine learning products are not consistent across jurisdictions. Accordingly, it is not possible to predict all of the risks related to the use of AI and machine learning solutions that we may face, and changes in laws, rules, directives, and regulations governing the use of AI and machine learning solutions may adversely affect our ability to use or sell these solutions or subject us to legal liability. We may encounter challenges to our business as we transition our business to focusing more on our Cloud offerings. We currently offer and sell both Data Center and Cloud offerings of certain of our products. For these products, our Cloud offering enables quick setup and subscription pricing, while our Data Center offering permits more customization, a term license fee structure, and complete application control. Although a substantial majority of our revenue was historically generated from customers using our Server and Data Center products, over time our customers have moved and we expect them to continue to move to our Cloud offerings, resulting in our Cloud offerings becoming more central to our distribution model. As a part of this transition, we ceased sales of new perpetual licenses for our Server products in February 2021 and, subject to limited exceptions, ended maintenance and support for Server products in February 2024. We may be subject to additional competitive and pricing pressures for our Cloud offerings compared to our Data Center offerings, which could harm our business. Further, revenues from our Cloud offerings are typically lower in the initial year compared to our Data Center offerings, which may impact our near-term revenue growth rates and margins, and we incur higher or additional costs to supply our Cloud offerings, such as fees associated with hosting our cloud infrastructure. We have and expect to continue to see increased expenses and lower margins due such hosting costs increasing in this transition. Additionally, we offered discounts to certain of our enterprise-level Server customers to incentivize migration to our Cloud offerings, which impacted our near-term revenue growth. If our remaining Server customers did not transition to our Cloud or Data Center offerings, or if our Data Center customers do not migrate to our Cloud offerings, our revenue growth rates and profitability may be negatively impacted. If our Cloud offerings do not develop as quickly as we expect, if we are unable to continue to scale our systems to meet the requirements of successful, large Cloud offerings, or if we lose customers currently 18 using our Data Center products due to our increased focus on our Cloud offerings or our inability to successfully migrate them to our Cloud products, our business could be harmed. We are directing a significant portion of our financial and operating resources to implement robust Cloud offerings for our products and to migrate our existing customers to our Cloud offerings, but even if we continue to make these investments, we may be unsuccessful in growing or implementing our Cloud offering that competes successfully against our current and future competitors and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed. Our business depends on our customers renewing their subscriptions and purchasing additional licenses or subscriptions from us, and any decline in our customer retention or expansion could harm our future results of operations. In order for us to maintain or improve our results of operations, it is important that our customers renew their licenses or subscriptions when existing contract terms expire and that we expand our commercial relationships with our existing customers. Our customers have no obligation to renew their licenses or subscriptions, and our customers may not renew licenses or subscriptions with a similar contract duration or with the same or greater number of users. Our customers generally do not enter into long-term contracts; rather they primarily have monthly or annual terms. Some of our customers have elected not to renew their agreements with us in the past and it is difficult to accurately predict long-term customer retention. Our customer retention and expansion may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our products, new market entrants, our product support, our prices and pricing plans, the prices of competing software products, reductions in our customers spending levels, new product releases and changes to packaging of our product offerings, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, our increased focus on our Cloud offerings, our decision to end the sale of new perpetual licenses for our products, or the effects of global economic conditions, including the impacts on us or our customers, partners and suppliers from inflation and interest rate increases. We may be unable to timely address any retention issues with specific customers, which could harm our results of operations. If our customers do not purchase additional licenses or subscriptions or renew their subscriptions, renew on less favorable terms, or fail to add more users, our revenue may decline or grow less quickly, which could harm our future results of operations and prospects. If we are not able to develop new products and enhancements to our existing products that achieve market acceptance and that keep pace with technological developments, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our ability to attract new customers and retain and increase revenue from existing customers depends in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing products and to introduce compelling new products that reflect the changing nature of our markets. The success of any enhancement to our products depends on several factors, including timely completion and delivery, competitive pricing, adequate quality testing, integration with existing technologies and our platform, and overall market acceptance. Any new product that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may contain bugs, or may not achieve the market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. The markets for our products are subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, and changing regulations, as well as changing customer needs, requirements and preferences. These are all uncertain and we cannot predict the consequences, effects, or introduction of new, disruptive, emerging technologies or the manner and pace at which our markets develop over time, and our ability to compete in these markets depends on predicting and adapting to these changing circumstances. The success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt and respond effectively to these changes on a timely basis, and anticipating these factors requires that we allocate significant resources without any guarantee that any such investments and efforts will result in initial or enhanced adoption of our products in the marketplace. For example, with the development of next-generation solutions that utilize new and advanced features, including AI and machine learning, we have and expect to continue to commit significant resources to developing new products and enhancements incorporating AI and machine learning, and there is no guarantee that our investments and efforts will result in wider adoption of our products in the marketplace. If new technologies emerge that can deliver competitive products and services at lower prices, more efficiently, more reliably, more conveniently or more securely or if new products are introduced into the market that could render our existing products obsolete, such technologies and products could adversely impact our ability to compete effectively and may lead to customers reducing or terminating their usage of our products. If we are unable to successfully develop new products, enhance our existing products to meet customer requirements, or otherwise gain market acceptance, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed. 19 If we cannot continue to expand the use of our products beyond our initial focus on software developers, our ability to grow our business could be harmed. Our ability to grow our business depends in part on our ability to persuade current and future customers to expand their use of our products to additional use cases beyond software developers, including information technology and business teams. If we fail to predict customer demands or achieve further market acceptance of our products within these additional areas and teams, or if a competitor establishes a more widely adopted product for these applications, our ability to grow our business could be harmed. We invest significantly in research and development, and to the extent our research and development investments do not translate into new products or material enhancements to our current products, or if we do not use those investments efficiently, our business and results of operations would be harmed. A key element of our strategy is to invest significantly in our research and development efforts to develop new products and enhance our existing products to address additional applications and markets. In fiscal years 2024 and 2023, our research and development expenses were 50% and 53% of our revenue, respectively. If we do not spend our research and development budget efficiently or effectively on compelling innovation and technologies, our business could be harmed and we may not realize the expected benefits of our strategy. Moreover, research and development projects can be technically challenging and expensive. The nature of these research and development cycles may cause us to experience delays between the time we incur expenses associated with research and development and the time we are able to offer compelling products and generate revenue, if any, from such investment. Additionally, anticipated customer demand for a product we are developing could decrease after the development cycle has commenced, and we would nonetheless be unable to avoid substantial costs associated with the development of any such product. If we expend a significant amount of resources on research and development and our efforts do not lead to the successful introduction or improvement of products that are competitive in our current or future markets, it could harm our business and results of operations. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience rapid growth, both in terms of employee headcount and number of customers, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational, and financial resources. We operate globally and sell our products to customers in approximately 200 countries and territories. Further, we have employees in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, India, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Philippines, Poland, South Korea, Turkey, the U.S., and the United Kingdom (the UK), and a substantial number of our employees have been with us for fewer than 24 months. We plan to continue to invest in and grow our team, and to expand our operations into other countries in the future, which will place additional demands on our resources and operations. As our business expands across numerous jurisdictions, we may experience difficulties, including in hiring, training, and managing a diffuse and growing employee base. We have also experienced significant growth in the number of customers, users, transactions and data that our products and our associated infrastructure support. If we fail to successfully manage our anticipated growth and change, the quality of our products may suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation and harm our ability to retain and attract customers. Finally, our organizational structure is becoming more complex and if we fail to scale and adapt our operational, financial, and management controls and systems, as well as our reporting systems and procedures, to manage this complexity, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed. We will require significant capital expenditures and the allocation of management resources to grow and change in these areas. Our corporate values have contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain these values as we grow, we could lose the innovative approach, creativity, and teamwork fostered by our values, and our business could be harmed. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate values, which we believe foster innovation, teamwork, and an emphasis on customer-focused results. In addition, we believe that our values create an environment that drives and perpetuates our product strategy and low-cost distribution approach. As we undergo growth in our customers and employee base, maintain a remote-first Team Anywhere work environment, and continue to develop the infrastructure of a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain our corporate values. Any failure to preserve our values could harm our future success, including our ability to retain and recruit personnel, innovate and operate effectively, and execute on our business strategy. 20 If our marketing model is not effective in attracting new customers or we are unable to realize the benefits of our free trial strategy, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our marketing model has relied on the strength of our products and organic user demand, driven by word-of-mouth marketing and viral expansion within organizations. We offer free trials, limited free versions and affordable starter licenses for certain products in order to promote additional usage, brand and product awareness, and adoption. If we are not able to organically attract customers, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected, or decline. In addition, high levels of customer satisfaction and market adoption are central to our marketing model. Any decrease in our customers satisfaction with our products, including as a result of our own actions or actions outside of our control, could harm word-of-mouth referrals and our brand. If our customer base does not continue to grow with our marketing model, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing and sales expenses in order to acquire new subscribers, which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, our strategy of offering free trials, limited free versions or affordable starter licenses for certain products could be ineffective. Users may not perceive value in the additional benefits and services we offer beyond our free trials or limited free versions and, historically, a majority of users never convert to a paid version of our products from these free trials or limited free versions or upgrade beyond the starter license. Our marketing strategy also depends in part on persuading users who use free trials, free versions or starter licenses of our products to convince others within their organization to purchase and deploy our products. To the extent that these users do not become, or lead others to become, customers, we will not realize the intended benefits of this marketing strategy, and our ability to grow our business could be harmed. Our business model relies on a high volume of transactions and affordable pricing. As lower cost or free products are introduced by our competitors, our ability to generate new customers could be harmed. Our business model is based in part on selling our products at prices lower than competing products from other commercial vendors. For example, we offer entry-level or free pricing for certain products for small teams at a price that typically does not require capital budget approval and is orders-of-magnitude less than the price of traditional enterprise software. As a result, our software is frequently purchased by first-time customers to solve specific problems and not as part of a strategic technology purchasing decision. We have historically increased, and will continue to increase, prices from time to time. As competitors enter the market with low cost or free alternatives to our products, it may become increasingly difficult for us to compete effectively and our ability to garner new customers could be harmed. Additionally, some customers may consider our products to be discretionary purchases, which may contribute to reduced demand for our offerings in times of economic uncertainty, inflation and interest rate increases. If we are unable to sell our software in high volume, across new and existing customers, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We may encounter challenges as we develop our enterprise sales force. In recent years, we have focused on strategically growing our sales force to expand and deepen our relationships with our existing customers, particularly large enterprises. As our sales force develops, we may encounter challenges in identifying, recruiting, training, and retaining a qualified sales force, and we expect this growth to require significant time, expense, and attention. Expanding our sales infrastructure also has impacts on our cost structure and results of operations, and we may have to reduce other expenses, such as our research and development expenses, in order to accommodate a corresponding increase in marketing and sales expenses and maintain positive free cash flow. As our sales teams grow, we may face increased costs, longer sales cycles, greater competition and less predictability in completing our sales. For enterprise customers, the evaluation process may be longer and more involved, and require us to invest more in educating our customers about our products, services, and solutions, particularly because the decision to use our products, services, and solutions is often an enterprise-wide decision. We may be required to submit more robust proposals, participate in extended proof-of-concept evaluation cycles and engage in more extensive contract negotiations. In addition, our enterprise customers often demand more complex configurations and additional integration services and product features. Adverse macroeconomic conditions have caused, and may cause in the future, delays in our enterprise customers purchasing decisions. Due to these factors, we often must devote greater sales support to certain enterprise customers, which increases our costs and time required to complete a sale, without assurance that potential customers will ultimately purchase our solutions. We also may be required to devote more services resources to implementation, which increases our costs, without assurance that customers receiving these services will renew or renew at the same level. Since the sales cycles for our enterprise offerings are multi-phased and complex, it is often unpredictable when a given sales cycle will close. Our revenue from enterprise customers may be affected by longer-than-expected sales and 21 implementation cycles, extended collection cycles, potential deferral of revenue, and alternative licensing arrangements. We derive a majority of our revenue from Jira and Confluence. We derive a majority of our revenue from Jira and Confluence. As such, the market acceptance of these products is critical to our success. Demand for these products and our other products is affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as continued market acceptance of our products by customers for existing and new use cases, the timing of development and release of new products, features, functionality and lower cost alternatives introduced by our competitors, technological changes and developments within the markets we serve, and growth or contraction in our addressable markets. If we are unable to continue to meet customer demands or to achieve more widespread market acceptance of our products, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed. We recognize certain revenue streams over the term of our subscription contracts. Consequently, downturns in new sales may not be immediately reflected in our results of operations and may be difficult to discern. We generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the terms of their contracts. As a result, a significant portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription plans entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed licenses and subscriptions in any single quarter may only have a small impact on our revenue results for that quarter. However, such a decline will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our products, and potential changes in our pricing policies or rate of expansion or retention, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. For example, the impact of current economic uncertainties may cause customers to request concessions, including better pricing, which may not be reflected immediately in our results of operations. In addition, customers have in the past and may continue in the future to slow their rate of expansion or edition upgrades or reduce their number of licenses. We may also be unable to reduce our cost structure in line with a significant deterioration in sales. In addition, a significant majority of our costs are expensed as incurred, while a significant portion of our revenue is recognized over the life of the agreement with our customer. As a result, increased growth in the number of our customers could continue to result in our recognition of more costs than revenue in the earlier periods of the terms of certain of our customer agreements. Our subscription revenue also makes it more difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from certain new customers must be recognized over the applicable term. If the Atlassian Marketplace does not continue to be successful, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We operate the Atlassian Marketplace, an online marketplace, for selling third-party, as well as Atlassian-built, apps. We rely on the Atlassian Marketplace to supplement our promotional efforts and build awareness of our products, and we believe that third-party apps from the Atlassian Marketplace facilitate greater usage and customization of our products. If we do not continue to add new vendors and developers, are unable to sufficiently grow the number of cloud apps our customers demand, or our existing vendors and developers stop developing or supporting the apps that they sell on the Atlassian Marketplace, our business could be harmed. In addition, third-party apps on the Atlassian Marketplace may not meet the same quality standards that we apply to our own development efforts and, in the past, third-party apps have caused disruptions affecting multiple customers. To the extent these apps contain bugs, vulnerabilities, or defects, such apps have in the past and may in the future create disruptions in our customers use of our products, lead to data loss or unauthorized access to customer data, damage our brand and reputation, and affect the continued use of our products, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any failure to offer high-quality product support could harm our relationships with our customers and our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In deploying and using our products, our customers depend on our product support teams to resolve complex technical and operational issues. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for product support. We also may be unable to modify the nature, scope and delivery of our product support to compete with changes in product support services provided by our competitors. Increased customer demand for product support, without corresponding revenue, could increase costs and harm our results of operations. In addition, as we continue to grow our operations and reach a global and vast customer base, we need 22 to be able to provide efficient product support that meets our customers needs globally at scale. The number of our customers has grown significantly and that has put additional pressure on our product support organization. End customers may also reach out to us requesting support for third-party apps sold on the Atlassian Marketplace. In order to meet these needs, we have relied in the past and will continue to rely on third-party vendors to fulfill requests about third-party apps and self-service product support to resolve common or frequently asked questions for Atlassian products, which supplement our customer support teams. If we are unable to provide efficient product support globally at scale, including through the use of third-party vendors and self-service support, our ability to grow our operations could be harmed and we may need to hire additional support personnel, which could harm our results of operations. For example, in April 2022, a subset of our customers experienced a full outage across their Atlassian Cloud products due to a faulty script used during a maintenance procedure. While we restored access for these customers with minimal to no data loss, these affected customers experienced disruptions in using our Cloud products during the outage. Our sales are highly dependent on our business reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality product support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality product support, could harm our reputation, our ability to sell our products to existing and prospective customers, and our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to develop and maintain successful relationships with our solution partners, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed. We have established relationships with certain solution partners to distribute our products. We believe that continued growth in our business is dependent upon identifying, developing, and maintaining strategic relationships with our existing and potential solution partners that can drive substantial revenue and provide additional value-added services to our customers. For fiscal year 2024, we derived over 50% of our revenue from channel partners sales efforts. Successfully managing our indirect channel distribution efforts is a complex process across the broad range of geographies where we do business or plan to do business. Our solution partners are independent businesses we do not control. Notwithstanding this independence, we still face legal risk and reputational harm from the activities of our solution partners including, but not limited to, export control violations, workplace conditions, corruption, and anti-competitive behavior. Our agreements with our existing solution partners are non-exclusive, meaning they may offer customers the products of several different companies, including products that compete with ours. They may also cease marketing our products with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty. We expect that any additional solution partners we identify and develop will be similarly non-exclusive and unbound by any requirement to continue to market our products. If we fail to identify additional solution partners in a timely and cost-effective manner, or at all, or are unable to assist our current and future solution partners in independently distributing and deploying our products, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed. If our solution partners do not effectively market and sell our products, or fail to meet the needs of our customers, our reputation and ability to grow our business could also be harmed. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our reputation as a differentiated and category-defining company is critical to our relationships with our existing customers and to our ability to attract new customers. The successful promotion of our brand attributes will depend on a number of factors, including our and our solution partners marketing efforts, our ability to continue to develop high-quality products, our ability to minimize and respond to errors, failures, outages, vulnerabilities, or bugs, and our ability to successfully differentiate our products from competitive products. In addition, independent industry analysts often provide analyses of our products, as well as the products offered by our competitors, and perception of the relative value of our products in the marketplace may be significantly influenced by these analyses. If these analyses are negative, or less positive as compared to those of our competitors products, our brand may be harmed. The promotion of our brand requires us to make substantial expenditures, and we anticipate that the expenditures will increase as our market becomes more competitive, as we expand into new markets, and as more sales are generated through our solution partners. To the extent that these activities yield increased revenue, this revenue may not offset the increased expenses we incur. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, our business may not grow, we may have reduced pricing power relative to competitors, and we could lose customers or fail to attract new customers, any of which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 23 If we fail to integrate our products with a variety of operating systems, software applications, platforms and hardware that are developed by others, our products may become less marketable, less competitive, or obsolete and our results of operations could be harmed. Our products must integrate with a variety of network, hardware, and software platforms, and we need to continuously modify and enhance our products to adapt to changes in hardware, software, networking, browser and database technologies. In particular, we have developed our products to be able to easily integrate with third-party applications, including the applications of software providers that compete with us, through the interaction of application programming interfaces (APIs). In general, we rely on the fact that the providers of such software systems continue to allow us access to their APIs to enable these customer integrations. To date, we have not relied on long-term written contracts to govern our relationship with these providers. Instead, we are subject to the standard terms and conditions for application developers of such providers, which govern the distribution, operation and fees of such software systems, and which are subject to change by such providers from time to time. Our business could be harmed if any provider of such software systems: discontinues or limits our access to its APIs; modifies its terms of service or other policies, including fees charged to, or other restrictions on us or other application developers; changes how customer information is accessed by us or our customers; establishes more favorable relationships with one or more of our competitors; or develops or otherwise favors its own competitive offerings over ours. We believe a significant component of our value proposition to customers is the ability to optimize and configure our products with these third-party applications through our respective APIs. If we are not permitted or able to integrate with these and other third-party applications in the future, demand for our products could decline and our business and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, an increasing number of organizations and individuals within organizations are utilizing mobile devices to access the internet and corporate resources and to conduct business. We have designed and continue to design mobile applications to provide access to our products through these devices. If we cannot provide effective functionality through these mobile applications as required by organizations and individuals that widely use mobile devices, we may experience difficulty attracting and retaining customers. Failure of our products to operate effectively with future infrastructure platforms and technologies could also reduce the demand for our products, resulting in customer dissatisfaction and harm to our business. If we are unable to respond to changes in a cost-effective manner, our products may become less marketable, less competitive or obsolete and our results of operations could be harmed. Acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses, products, or technologies could disrupt our business, and we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions. We have completed a number of acquisitions and strategic investments and continue to evaluate and consider additional strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets in the future. For example, in fiscal year 2024, we acquired Loom, Inc., an asynchronous video messaging platform that helps users communicate through instantly shareable videos. We also may enter into strategic relationships with other businesses to expand our products, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. Any acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel, or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired companies choose not to work for us, their software and services are not easily adapted to work with our products, or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in ownership, management or otherwise. Acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources, and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the development of our existing business. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or personnel, or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment, or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown risks or liabilities. 24 In the future, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition or strategic investment candidates, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions or strategic investments on favorable terms, or at all. Our previous and future acquisitions or strategic investments may not achieve our goals, and any future acquisitions or strategic investments we complete could be viewed negatively by users, customers, developers or investors. Negotiating these transactions can be time consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to complete these transactions may often be subject to approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if announced, may not be completed. For one or more of those transactions, we may: issue additional equity securities that would dilute our existing stockholders; use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; incur large charges, expenses, or substantial liabilities; incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse software codes or business cultures; and become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, impairment, or deferred compensation charges. Risks Related to Information Technology, Intellectual Property, and Data Security and Privacy If our security controls are compromised, leading to unauthorized or inappropriate access to customer data, our products could be perceived as insecure, and such perception may result in the loss of existing customers, hinder our ability to attract new ones, and expose us to significant liabilities. Use of our products involves the storage, transmission, and processing of our customers proprietary data, including potentially personal or identifying information. Unauthorized or inappropriate access to, or security breaches of, our products could result in unauthorized or inappropriate access to data and information, and the loss, compromise or corruption of such data and information. In the event of a security breach, we could suffer loss of business, severe reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence, regulatory investigations and orders, litigation, indemnity obligations, damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, significant costs for remediation, and other liabilities. In addition, we rely on third-party service providers to host or otherwise process some of such data, and any failure by a third party, or any other entity in our collective supply chain, to prevent or mitigate data security breaches or improper access to, or use, acquisition, disclosure, alteration, or destruction of, such data could have similar adverse consequences for us. We have incurred and expect to incur significant expenses to prevent security breaches, including costs related to deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third-party solution providers and consultants. Our errors and omissions insurance covering certain security and privacy damages and claim expenses may not be sufficient to compensate for all liabilities we may incur. Although we expend significant resources to create security protections that shield our customer data against potential theft and security breaches, the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to systems or sabotage systems, or disable or degrade services, change frequently and are often unrecognizable until launched against a target, and therefore such measures cannot provide absolute security. We have in the past experienced breaches of our security measures and other inappropriate access to our systems. Certain of these incidents have resulted in unauthorized access to certain data processed through our products. Our products are at risk for future breaches and inappropriate access, including, without limitation, inappropriate access that may be caused by errors or breaches that may occur as a result of third-party action, or employee, vendor or contractor error or malfeasance, and other causes. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, a target of security threats, including from state actors. While these incidents have not materially affected our business, reputation or financial results, there is no guarantee they will not in the future. Additionally, the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine may result in a heightened threat environment and create unknown cyber risks, including increased risk of retaliatory cyber-attacks from Russian actors against non-Russian companies. Additionally, we have transitioned to a remote-first Team Anywhere work environment that may pose additional data security risks. We also continue to build AI and machine learning into our products, which may result in security incidents or otherwise increase cybersecurity risks. Further, AI technologies may be used in connection with certain cybersecurity attacks, resulting in heightened risks of security breaches and incidents. 25 As we further transition to selling our products via our Cloud offerings, continue to collect more personal and sensitive information, and operate in more countries, our risks continue to increase and evolve. For instance, we rely on third-party partners to develop apps on the Atlassian Marketplace that connect with and enhance our Cloud offerings for our customers. These apps may not meet the same quality standards that we apply to our own development efforts and have in the past, and may in the future, contain bugs, vulnerabilities, or defects that pose data security risks to our customer or lead to the unauthorized access of user data. Our ability to mandate security standards and ensure compliance by these third parties may be limited. Additionally, our products may be subject to vulnerabilities in the third-party software on which we rely. We have in the past identified a vulnerability in an open source software application we used and similar incidents may occur in the future and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are likely to face increased risks that real or perceived vulnerabilities of our systems could seriously harm our business and our financial performance, by tarnishing our reputation and brand and limiting the adoption of our products. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We may also experience security breaches that may remain undetected for an extended period and, therefore, have a greater impact on the products we offer, the proprietary data processed through our services, and, ultimately, on our business. Data security breaches could also expose us to liability under various laws and regulations across jurisdictions and increase the risk of litigation and governmental or regulatory investigation. Due to concerns about data security and integrity, a growing number of legislative and regulatory bodies have adopted breach notification and other requirements in the event that information subject to such laws is accessed by unauthorized persons and additional regulations regarding security of such data are possible. We may need to notify governmental authorities and affected individuals with respect to such incidents. For example, laws in the EU and UK and all 50 U.S. states may require businesses to provide notice to individuals whose personal information has been disclosed as a result of a data security breach. Complying with such numerous and complex regulations in the event of a data security breach would be expensive and difficult, and failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and additional liability. We may also be contractually required to notify customers or other counterparties of a security incident, including a data security breach. Regardless of our contractual protections, any actual or perceived data security breach, or breach of our contractual obligations, could harm our reputation and brand, expose us to potential liability or require us to expend significant resources on data security and in responding to any such actual or perceived breach. Interruptions or performance problems associated with our technology and infrastructure could harm our business and results of operations. We rely heavily on our network infrastructure and information technology systems for our business operations, and our continued growth depends in part on the ability of our existing and potential customers to access our solutions at any time and within an acceptable amount of time. In addition, we rely almost exclusively on our websites for the downloading of, and payment for, all our products. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions, data loss and corruption, outages and other performance problems with our infrastructure and websites due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, introductions of new functionality, human or software errors, capacity constraints, denial of service attacks, or other security-related incidents. In some instances, we have not been able to, and in the future may not be able to, identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve our performance, especially during peak usage times and as our products and websites become more complex and our user traffic increases. If our products and websites are unavailable, if our users are unable to access our products within a reasonable amount of time, or at all, or if our information technology systems for our business operations experience disruptions, delays or deficiencies, our business could be harmed. Moreover, we provide service level commitments under certain of our paid customer cloud contracts, pursuant to which we guarantee specified minimum availability. If we fail to meet these contractual commitments, we could be obligated to provide credits for future service, or face contract termination with refunds of prepaid amounts related to unused subscriptions, which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. From time to time, we have granted, and in the future will continue to grant, credits to paid customers pursuant to, and sometimes in addition to, the terms of these agreements. For example, in April 2022, a subset of our customers experienced a full outage across their Atlassian cloud products due to a faulty script used during a maintenance procedure. While we restored access for these customers with minimal to no data loss, these affected customers experienced disruptions in using our cloud 26 products during the outage. We incurred certain costs associated with offering service level credits and other concessions to these customers, although the overall impact did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. However, other future events like this may materially and adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. Further, disruptions, data loss and corruption, outages and other performance problems in our cloud infrastructure may cause customers to delay or halt their transition to our Cloud offerings, to the detriment of our increased focus on our Cloud offerings, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we depend on services from various third parties, including Amazon Web Services, to maintain our infrastructure and distribute our products via the internet. Any disruptions in these services, including as a result of actions outside of our control, would significantly impact the continued performance of our products. In the future, these services may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of these services could result in decreased functionality of our products until equivalent technology is either developed by us or, if available from another provider, is identified, obtained and integrated into our infrastructure. To the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed, and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Real or perceived errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs in our products or in the products on Atlassian Marketplace could harm our business and results of operations. Errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs may occur in our products, especially when updates are deployed or new products are rolled out. Our solutions are often used in connection with large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, equipment, and networking configurations, which may cause errors, failures of products, or other negative consequences in the computing environment into which they are deployed. In addition, deployment of our products into complicated, large-scale computing environments may expose errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs in our products. Any such errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs have in the past not been, and in the future may not be, found until after they are deployed to our customers. Real or perceived errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs in our products have and could result in negative publicity, loss of or unauthorized access to customer data, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers for losses sustained by them, all of which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, third-party apps on Atlassian Marketplace may not meet the same quality standards that we apply to our own development efforts and, in the past, third-party apps have caused disruptions affecting multiple customers. To the extent these apps contain bugs, vulnerabilities, or defects, such apps may create disruptions in our customers use of our products, lead to data loss or unauthorized access to customer data, they may damage our brand and reputation, and affect the continued use of our products, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Privacy concerns and laws as well as evolving regulation of cloud computing, AI services, cross-border data transfer restrictions and other domestic or foreign regulations may limit the use and adoption of our services and adversely affect our business and results of operation. Regulation related to the provision of services over the internet is evolving, as federal, state and foreign governments continue to adopt new, or modify existing, laws and regulations addressing data privacy, cybersecurity, data protection, data sovereignty and the collection, processing, storage, hosting, transfer and use of data, generally. In the United States, the Federal Trade Commission and state regulators enforce a variety of data privacy issues, such as promises made in privacy policies or failures to appropriately protect information about individuals, as unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act or similar state laws. In addition, new U.S. state data privacy laws, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), and laws that have recently passed and/or gone into effect in many other states similarly impose new obligations on us and many of our customers, potentially as both businesses and service providers. These laws continue to evolve, and as various states introduce similar proposals, we and our customers could be exposed to additional regulatory burdens. In the European Economic Area (EEA) and the U.K., data privacy laws and regulations, such as the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (EU GDPR) and United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation and Data Protection Act 2018 (collectively, the UK GDPR, and, together with the EU GDPR, the GDPR), impose comprehensive obligations directly on Atlassian as both a data controller and a data processor, as well as on many of our customers, in relation to our collection, processing, sharing, disclosure and other use of personal data. 27 We are also subject to evolving privacy laws on cookies, tracking technologies and e-marketing. For example, the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 establishes certain requirements for commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. In addition, certain states and foreign jurisdictions, such as Australia, Canada and the EU, have enacted laws that regulate sending email, and some of these laws are more restrictive than U.S. laws. In the EU and U.K., informed consent is required for the placement of certain cookies or similar tracking technologies on an individuals device and for direct electronic marketing. Consent is tightly defined and includes a prohibition on pre-checked consents and a requirement to obtain separate consents for each type of cookie or similar technology. Recent European court and regulator decisions are driving increased attention to cookies and similar tracking technologies. In addition, various safe harbors have historically been provided to those who hosted content provided by others, such as safe harbors from monetary damages for copyright infringement arising from copyrighted content provided by customers and others, and for defamation and other torts arising from information provided by customers and others. There is an increasing demand for repealing or limiting these safe harbors by either judicial decision or legislation. Loss of these safe harbors may require altering or limiting some of our services or may require additional contractual terms to avoid liabilities for our customers misconduct. Although we monitor the regulatory, judicial and legislative environment and have invested in addressing these developments, these new laws may require us to make additional changes to our practices and services to enable us or our customers to meet the new legal requirements, and may also increase our potential liability exposure through new or higher potential penalties for noncompliance, including as a result of penalties, fines and lawsuits related to data breaches. For instance, the Digital Services Act (DSA) in the EU, which came into force on November 16, 2022 and the majority of substantive provisions of which took effect on February 17, 2024, imposes new obligations around illegal services or content on our platform, traceability of business users, and enhanced transparency measures, and failure to comply can result in fines of up to 6% of total annual worldwide turnover. Record-breaking enforcement actions globally have shown that regulators wield their right to impose substantial fines for violations of privacy regulations, and these enforcement actions could result in guidance from regulators that would require changes to our current compliance strategy. Furthermore, privacy laws and regulations are subject to differing interpretations and may be inconsistent among jurisdictions. These and other requirements are causing increased scrutiny among customers, particularly in the public sector and highly regulated industries, and may be perceived differently from customer to customer. These developments could reduce demand for our services, require us to take on more onerous obligations in our contracts, restrict our ability to store, transfer and process data, require us to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our products, or, in some cases, impact our ability or our customers' ability to offer our services in certain locations, to deploy our solutions, to reach current and prospective customers, or to derive insights from customer data globally. For example, in July 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) invalidated the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework, one of the mechanisms that allowed companies, including Atlassian, to transfer personal data from the European Economic Area (EEA) to the United States. Even though the CJEU decision upheld the Standard Contractual Clauses as an adequate transfer mechanism, the decision created uncertainty around the validity of all EU-to-U.S. data transfers. While the EU and U.S. governments have recently adopted the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework to foster EU-to-U.S. data transfers and address the concerns raised in the aforementioned CJEU decision, it is uncertain whether this framework will eventually be overturned in court like the previous two EU-U.S. bilateral cross-border transfer frameworks. Certain countries outside of the EEA have also passed or are considering passing laws requiring varying degrees of local data residency. By way of further example, statutory damages available through a private right of action for certain data breaches under the CPRA and potentially other U.S. states laws, may increase our and our customers potential liability and the demands our customers place on us. As another example, jurisdictions are considering legal frameworks on AI, which is a trend that may increase now that the EC has agreed the first such framework. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, privacy laws, regulations and standards may limit the use and adoption of our services, reduce overall demand for our services, make it more difficult to meet expectations from our commitments to customers and our customers users, lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for noncompliance, impact our reputation, or slow the pace at which we close sales transactions, in particular where customers request specific warranties and unlimited indemnity for noncompliance with privacy laws, any of which could harm our business. We have adopted and continue to adopt data residency in certain territories. These services may enhance our ability to attract and retain customers operating in the relevant jurisdictions, but may also increase the cost and complexity of supporting those customers, the scope of our residency offering may not align with customer needs, and our customers may request similar offerings in other territories. 28 In addition to government activity, privacy advocates and other industry groups have established or may establish new self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on our ability to provide our services globally. Our customers expect us to meet voluntary certification and other standards established by third parties. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could adversely affect our ability to provide our solutions to certain customers and could harm our business. In addition, we have seen a trend toward the private enforcement of data protection obligations, including through private actions for alleged noncompliance, which could harm our business and negatively impact our reputation. In addition, a shift in consumers data privacy expectations or other social, economic or political developments could impact the regulatory enforcement of privacy regulations, which could require our cooperation and increase the cost of compliance with the imposed regulations. Further, any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies, our privacy-related obligations to users or other third parties, or any other legal obligations or regulatory requirements relating to privacy, data protection or information security may result in governmental investigations or enforcement actions, litigation, claims or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could result in significant liability, cause our users to lose trust in us, and otherwise materially and adversely affect our reputation and business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our users may limit the adoption and use of, and reduce the overall demand for, our platform. Additionally, if third parties we work with violate applicable laws, regulations or agreements, such violations may put our users data at risk, could result in governmental investigations or enforcement actions, fines, litigation, claims, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could result in significant liability, cause our users to lose trust in us and otherwise materially and adversely affect our reputation and business. Further, public scrutiny of, or complaints about, technology companies or their data handling or data protection practices, even if unrelated to our business, industry or operations, may lead to increased scrutiny of technology companies, including us, and may cause government agencies to enact additional regulatory requirements, or to modify their enforcement or investigation activities, which may increase our costs and risks. Our business also increasingly relies on artificial intelligence to improve our services and tailor our interactions with our customers. However, in recent years use of these methods has come under increased regulatory scrutiny. New laws, guidance and/or decisions in this area may limit our ability to use our artificial intelligence models, or require us to make changes to our operations that may decrease our operational efficiency, result in an increase to operating costs and/or hinder our ability to improve our services. For example, there are specific rules on the use of automated decision making under the GDPR that require the existence of automated decision making to be disclosed to the data subject with a meaningful explanation of the logic used in such decision making in certain circumstances, and safeguards must be implemented to safeguard individual rights, including the right to obtain human intervention and to contest any decision. Further, California recently introduced a law requiring disclosure of chatbot functionality. Finally, the uncertain and shifting regulatory environment and trust climate may raise concerns regarding data privacy and cybersecurity, which may cause our customers or our customers users to resist providing the data necessary to allow our customers to use our services effectively. In addition, new products we develop or acquire may expose us to liability or regulatory risk. Even the perception that the privacy and security of personal information are not satisfactorily protected or do not meet regulatory requirements could inhibit sales of our products or services and could limit adoption of our cloud offerings. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement or misappropriation of their intellectual property rights. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our future success depends in part on not infringing upon or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of others. We have received, and may receive in the future, communications and lawsuits from third parties, including practicing entities and non-practicing entities, claiming that we are infringing upon or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon or misappropriating such rights. We may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology, or technology that we obtain from third parties. Furthermore, the intellectual property ownership and license rights, including copyright, surrounding AI technologies has not been fully addressed by courts or national or local laws or regulations, and the use or adoption of third-party AI technologies into our products and services may result in exposure to claims of copyright infringement or other intellectual property misappropriation. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty or license payments, prevent us from offering our products or using certain technologies, require us 29 to implement expensive workarounds, refund fees to customers or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. In the case of infringement or misappropriation caused by technology that we obtain from third parties, any indemnification or other contractual protections we obtain from such third parties, if any, may be insufficient to cover the liabilities we incur as a result of such infringement or misappropriation. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners in connection with any such claims or litigation and to obtain licenses, modify our products or refund fees, which could further exhaust our resources. Even if we were to prevail in the event of claims or litigation against us, any claim or litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and other employees from our business operations and disrupt our business. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement and other losses. Our agreements with customers and other third parties may include indemnification or other provisions under which we agree to indemnify or otherwise be liable to them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement, damages caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our products or other acts or omissions. The term of these contractual provisions often survives termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. Large indemnity payments or damage claims from contractual breach could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we generally contractually limit our liability with respect to such obligations, we may still incur substantial liability related to them. Any dispute with a customer with respect to such obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with that customer and other current and prospective customers, reduce demand for our products, damage our reputation and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We use open source software in our products that may subject our products to general release or require us to re-engineer our products, which could harm our business. We use open source software in our products and expect to continue to use open source software in the future. There are uncertainties regarding the proper interpretation of and compliance with open source software licenses. Consequently, there is a risk that the owners of the copyrights in such open source software may claim that the open source licenses governing their use impose certain conditions or restrictions on our ability to use the software that we did not anticipate. Such owners may seek to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license, including by demanding release of the source code for the open source software, derivative works of such software, or, in some cases, our proprietary source code that uses or was developed using such open source software. These claims could also result in litigation, require us to purchase a costly license or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products, any of which could result in additional cost, liability and reputational damage to us, and harm to our business and results of operations. In addition, if the license terms for the open source software we utilize change, we may be forced to re-engineer our products or incur additional costs to comply with the changed license terms or to replace the affected open source software. Although we have implemented policies and tools to regulate the use and incorporation of open source software into our products, we cannot be certain that we have not incorporated open source software in our products in a manner that is inconsistent with such policies. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our intellectual property. We primarily rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate. We make business decisions about when to seek patent protection for a particular technology and when to rely upon trade secret protection, and the approach we select may ultimately prove to be inadequate. Even in cases where we seek patent protection, there is no assurance that the resulting patents will effectively protect every significant feature of our products. In addition, we believe that the protection of our trademark rights is an important factor in product recognition, protecting our brand and maintaining goodwill and if we do not adequately protect our rights in our trademarks from infringement, any goodwill that we have developed in those trademarks could be lost or impaired, which could harm our brand and our business. In any event, in order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect these rights. For example, we provide certain of our customers with the ability to request a copy of the source code of those products, which they may customize for their internal use under limited license terms, subject to confidentiality 30 and use restrictions. If any of such customers misuse or distribute our source code in violation of our agreements with them, or anyone else obtains access to our source code, it could cost us significant time and resources to enforce our rights and remediate any resulting competitive harms. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights, which could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property rights. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our brand and our business. Risks Related to Financial Matters We may require additional capital to support our operations or the growth of our business and we cannot be certain that we will be able to secure this capital on favorable terms, or at all. We may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions, a decline in the level of revenue for our products, or other unforeseen circumstances. We may not be able to timely secure debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. This inability to secure additional debt or equity financing could be exacerbated in times of economic uncertainty and tighter credit, such as is currently the case in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, recent increases in interest rates have and could continue in the future make any debt financing that we are able to secure much more expensive than in the past. Our current Credit Facility and the indenture governing our Senior Notes (each defined below) contain certain restrictive covenants and any future debt financing obtained by us could involve restrictive covenants relating to financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of Atlassian, and any new equity or debt securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our Class A Common Stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Our current and future indebtedness may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities or operating activities. In May 2024, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.250% senior notes due 2029 (the 2029 Notes) and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.500% senior notes due 2034 (together with the 2029 Notes, the Senior Notes). In August 2024, we amended and restated our prior credit facility to eliminate the senior unsecured delayed-draw term loan facility and provide for a $750 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). As of August 14, 2024, we had no outstanding revolving loans under the Credit Facility. Our Credit Facility requires compliance with various financial and non-financial covenants, including affirmative covenants relating to the provision of periodic financial statements, compliance certificates and other notices, maintenance of properties and insurance, payment of taxes and compliance with laws and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on the incurrence of certain indebtedness, granting of liens and mergers, dissolutions, consolidations and dispositions. The Credit Facility also provides for a number of events of default, including, among others, failure to make a payment, bankruptcy, breach of a covenant or representation and warranty, default under material indebtedness (other than the Credit Facility), change of control and judgment defaults. The indentures governing our Senior Notes contain certain negative covenants, including a limitation on liens and limitation on sale/leaseback covenants. Under the terms of these covenants, we may be restricted from engaging in business or operating activities that may otherwise improve our business or from financing future operations or capital needs. Failure to comply with certain covenants, including the financial covenant, if not cured or waived, will result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness, which would require us to repay all amounts owed and could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, our Credit Facility has a floating interest rate that is based on variable and unpredictable U.S. and international economic risks and uncertainties. If we were to draw on the Credit Facility, any increase in interest rates, as has occurred in the past and may occur in the future, may negatively impact our financial results. We continue to have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to the limitations in our Credit Facility and the indentures governing our Senior Notes. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: 31 our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; we may need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for investment in operations and future business opportunities; our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms to us or at all. We are subject to risks associated with our strategic investments, including partial or complete loss of invested capital. Significant changes in the value of this portfolio could negatively impact our financial results. We have strategic investments in privately held companies, and, in the past, publicly traded companies, in both domestic and international markets, including in emerging markets. These companies range from early-stage companies to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. Many such companies generate net losses and the market for their products, services or technologies may be slow to develop, and, therefore, they are dependent on the availability of later rounds of financing from banks or investors on favorable terms to continue their operations. The financial success of our investment in any privately held company is typically dependent on a liquidity event, such as a public offering, acquisition or other favorable market event reflecting appreciation relative to the cost of our initial investment. Likewise, the financial success of our investment in any publicly held company is typically dependent upon an exit in favorable market conditions, and to a lesser extent on liquidity events. The capital markets for public offerings and acquisitions are dynamic and the likelihood of successful liquidity events for the companies we have invested in could significantly worsen. Privately held companies in which we invest have undertaken in the past and others may in the future undertake, an initial public offering. We may also decide to invest in companies in connection with or as part of such companys initial public offering or other transactions directly or indirectly resulting in it being publicly traded. Therefore, our investment strategy and portfolio have also expanded in the past to include public companies. In certain cases, our ability to sell these investments may be constrained by contractual obligations to hold the securities for a period of time after a public offering, including market standoff agreements and lock-up agreements. All of our investments, especially our investments in privately held companies, are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of investment capital and a number of our investments have lost value in the past. Valuations of privately held companies are also inherently complex due to the lack of readily available market data, and, as a result, the basis for these valuations is subject to the timing and accuracy of the data received from these companies. If we determine that any of our more significant investments have experienced a decline in value, we may be required to record an impairment, which could be material and negatively impact our financial results. In addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, continue to deploy material investments in individual companies in which we have previously invested, resulting in the increasing concentration of risk in a small number of companies. Partial or complete loss of investment capital of these individual companies could be material to our financial statements. Our global operations and structure subject us to potentially adverse tax consequences. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income-based taxes in the U.S., Australia and various other jurisdictions. Significant judgment is often required in the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes. Our effective tax rate could be impacted by changes in our earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in operations, changes in nondeductible expenses, changes in excess tax benefits of stock-based compensation expense, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and our ability to utilize them, the applicability of withholding taxes, effects from acquisitions, and changes 32 in accounting principles and tax laws. Any changes or uncertainty in taxing jurisdictions administrative interpretations, decisions, policies and positions could also materially impact our income tax liabilities. Our intercompany relationships are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations administered by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions. The relevant revenue and taxing authorities may disagree with positions we have taken generally, or our determinations as to the value of assets sold or acquired, or income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions. For example, during fiscal year 2024, we entered into a unilateral advanced pricing arrangement with the Australian Tax Office in relation to our transfer pricing arrangements between Australia and the U.S. for the tax years ended June 30, 2019 to June 30, 2025 that resulted in us making a tax payment of $117.4 million. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business we are subject to tax audits from various taxing authorities. Although we believe our tax positions are appropriate, the final determination of any future tax audits could be materially different from our income tax provisions, accruals and reserves. If such a disagreement were to occur, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, a higher effective tax rate, reduced cash flows and lower overall profitability of our operations. Tax laws in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions are subject to change. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), signed into law in 2017, enacted significant tax law changes which impacted our tax obligations and effective tax rate beginning in our fiscal year 2023. The TCJA eliminates the option to deduct research and development expenditures, instead requiring taxpayers to capitalize and amortize such expenditures over five or fifteen years beginning in fiscal year 2023. Although Congress is considering legislation that would defer or eliminate the capitalization and amortization requirement, there is no assurance that the provision will be repealed or otherwise modified. The Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), signed into law in 2022, includes various corporate tax provisions including a new alternative corporate minimum tax on applicable corporations. The IRA tax provisions may become applicable to us in future years, which could result in additional taxes, a higher effective tax rate, reduced cash flows and lower overall profitability of our operations. Certain government agencies in jurisdictions where we do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational companies. In addition, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the OECD) has introduced various guidelines changing the way tax is assessed, collected and governed. Of note are the efforts around base erosion and profit shifting which seek to establish certain international standards for taxing the worldwide income of multinational companies. These measures have been endorsed by the leaders of the worlds 20 largest economies. In March 2018, the EC proposed a series of measures aimed at ensuring a fair and efficient taxation of digital businesses operating within the EU. As collaborative efforts by the OECD and EC continue, some countries have unilaterally moved to introduce their own digital service tax or equalization levy to capture tax revenue on digital services more immediately. Notably France, Italy, Austria, Spain, the UK, Turkey and India have enacted this tax, generally 2% on specific in-scope sales above a revenue threshold. The EU and the UK have established a mandate that focuses on the transparency of cross-border arrangements concerning at least one EU member state through mandatory disclosure and exchange of cross-border arrangements rules. These regulations (known as MDR in the UK and DAC 6 in the EU) require taxpayers to disclose certain transactions to the tax authorities resulting in an additional layer of compliance and require careful consideration of the tax benefits obtained when entering into transactions that need to be disclosed. The OECD introduced significant changes to the international tax law framework through the Pillar Two guidelines. The framework outlines a coordinated set of rules to prevent multinational enterprises from shifting profits to low-tax jurisdictions by implementing a 15% global minimum tax. Many countries in which we operate, including the member states of the EU, have enacted Pillar Two. Pillar Two rules will apply to us beginning in our fiscal year 2025. The potential effects of Pillar Two may vary depending on the specific provisions and rules implemented by each country that adopts Pillar Two and may include tax rate changes, higher effective tax rates, potential tax disputes and adverse impacts to our cash flows, tax liabilities, results of operations and financial position Global tax developments applicable to multinational companies may continue to result in new tax regimes or changes to existing tax laws. If the U.S. or foreign taxing authorities change tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, lead to a higher effective tax rate, harm our cash flows, results of operations and financial position. 33 Taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected or in the future should collect sales and use, value-added or similar taxes, and we could be subject to liability with respect to past or future sales, which could harm our results of operations. We do not collect sales and use, value-added and similar taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales, based on our understanding that such taxes are not applicable to the products we sell in certain jurisdictions. Sales and use, value-added and similar tax laws and rates vary greatly by jurisdiction. Certain jurisdictions in which we do not collect such taxes may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in tax assessments, penalties, and interest, and we may be required to collect such taxes in the future. Such tax assessments, penalties and interest, or future requirements could harm our results of operations. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our Class A Common Stock could be negatively affected. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. We are required to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of Class A Common Stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. We may encounter difficulties in operating our upgraded enterprise resource planning system, which could materially adversely affect us. During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2023, we upgraded our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to help us manage our operations and financial reporting. Our upgraded ERP system may not operate as we expect it to and could cause disruption to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Difficulties that may occur in connection with operating our upgraded ERP system include disruptions to business continuity, administrative or technical problems, difficulty in maintaining effective internal controls, and interruptions or delays to our sales processes. Any of these events could damage our reputation and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. While we primarily sell our products in U.S. dollars, we incur expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which exposes us to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. A large percentage of our expenses are denominated in the Australian dollar and the Indian rupee, and fluctuations in these currencies could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Moreover, our subsidiaries, other than our U.S. subsidiaries, maintain net assets that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, we transact in non-U.S. dollar currencies for our products, and, accordingly, changes in the value of non-U.S. dollar currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could affect our revenue and results of operations due to transactional and translational remeasurements that are reflected in our results of operations. We have a foreign exchange hedging program to hedge a portion of certain exposures to fluctuations in non-U.S. dollar currency exchange rates. We use derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge the exposures. The use of such hedging instruments may not fully offset the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign currency exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Moreover, the use of hedging instruments may introduce additional risks if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments or if we are unable to forecast hedged exposures accurately. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our results of operations could be harmed. Under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act), a company generally will be deemed to be an investment company for purposes of the Investment Company Act if (i) it is, or holds itself out as being, engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the 34 business of investing, reinvesting, or trading in securities or (ii) it engages, or proposes to engage, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities and it owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. We do not believe that we are an investment company, as such term is defined in either of these sections of the Investment Company Act. We currently conduct, and intend to continue to conduct, our operations so that neither we, nor any of our subsidiaries, is required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act that impose, among other things, limitations on capital structure, restrictions on specified investments, prohibitions on transactions with affiliates, and compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would increase our operating and compliance costs, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated, and could harm our results of operations. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert managements attention, and affect our ability to attract and retain executive officers and qualified board members. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the listing requirements of Nasdaq and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased our legal and financial compliance costs, making some activities more difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and has increased demand on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual reports with respect to our business and results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure