Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of Atomera Incorporated should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed financial statements and the accompanying notes that appear elsewhere in this filing. Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. We use words such as anticipate, estimate, plan, project, continuing, ongoing, expect, believe, intend, may, will, should, could, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Although forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value and effect, including those risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC on March 6, 2018 and referenced under the heading Risk Factors within Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report and other documents we subsequently file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), such as our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed herein and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Quarterly Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Overview We are engaged in the business of developing, commercializing and licensing proprietary processes and technologies for the $400+ billion semiconductor industry. Our lead technology, named Mears Silicon Technology TM , or MST , is a thin-film of reengineered silicon, typically 100 to 300 angstroms (or approximately 20 to 60 silicon atomic unit cells) thick. MST can be applied as a transistor channel enhancement to CMOS-type transistors, the most widely used transistor type in the semiconductor industry. MST is our proprietary and patent-protected performance enhancement technology that we believe addresses a number of key engineering challenges facing the semiconductor industry. We believe that by incorporating MST, transistors can be smaller, with increased speed, reliability and energy efficiency. In addition, since MST is an additive and low cost technology, we believe it can be deployed on an industrial scale, with machines commonly used in semiconductor manufacturing. We believe that MST can be widely incorporated into the most common types of semiconductor products, including analog, logic, optical and memory integrated circuits. We do not intend to design or manufacture integrated circuits directly. Instead, we intend to develop and license technologies and processes that we believe will offer the designers and manufacturers of integrated circuits a low-cost solution to the industrys need for greater performance and lower power consumption. Our customers and partners are expected to include: foundries, which manufacture integrated circuits on behalf of fabless manufacturers; integrated device manufacturers, or IDMs, which are the fully integrated designers and manufacturers of integrated circuits; fabless semiconductor manufacturers, which are designers of integrated circuits who outsource the manufacture of their chips to foundries; original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, that manufacture the epitaxial, or EPI, machines used to deposit semiconductor layers, such as the MST, onto the base silicon wafer; and electronic design automation companies, which make tools used throughout the industry to simulate performance of semiconductor products using different materials, design structures and process technologies. We intend to generate revenue through licensing arrangements whereby foundries and IDMs pay us a license fee for their use of MST technology in the manufacture of silicon wafers as well as a royalty for each silicon wafer or device that incorporates our MST technology. We also intend to enter into licensing arrangements with fabless semiconductor manufacturers pursuant to which we will charge them a royalty for each device they sell that incorporates our MST technology. 11 We were organized as a Delaware limited liability company under the name Nanovis LLC on November 26, 2001. On March 13, 2007, we converted to a Delaware corporation under the name Mears Technologies, Inc. On January 12, 2016, we changed our name to Atomera Incorporated. Results of Operations Revenues and Cost of Revenues. We did not generate revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 or 2017. We have only generated limited revenues since inception, all of which was non-recurring revenue recognized in the fourth quarter of 2017. Operating Expenses. Operating expenses consist of research and development, general and administrative, and selling and marketing expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, our operating expenses totaled approximately $3.1 million and $3.6 million, respectively. The decrease in operating expenses was primarily due to a decrease of approximately $665,000 in stock compensation expense. Research and development expenses. To date, our operations have focused on the research, development, patent protection, and commercialization of our processes and technologies, including our proprietary and patent-protected MST performance enhancement technology. Our research and development costs primarily consist of payroll and benefit costs for our engineering staff and costs of outsourced fabrication and metrology of semiconductor wafers incorporating our MST technology. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we incurred approximately $1.7 million and $1.5 million, respectively, of research and development expense, an increase of approximately $234,000 or 16%. The increase in research and development expense is primarily due to an increase of approximately $136,000 in spending on outsourced fabrication and metrology to support increased engagements with potential customers evaluating our MST, an increase of approximately $89,000 in payroll expense reflecting an increase in engineering headcount and an increase of approximately $24,000 in stock compensation expenses. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of payroll and benefit costs for administrative personnel, office-related costs and professional fees. General and administrative costs for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were approximately $1.2 million and $1.6 million, respectively, representing a decrease of approximately $400,000 or 25%. The decrease in costs was primarily due to a decrease of approximately $452,000 in stock compensation expense. This cost was offset by an approximate $40,000 increase in professional fees primarily due to fees related to patent filings and maintenance. Selling and marketing expenses. Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefits for our sales and marketing personnel and business development consulting services. Selling and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were approximately $246,000 and $509,000, respectively, representing a decrease of approximately $263,000, or 52%. Approximately $236,000 of the decrease is due to lower stock-based compensation. The remaining decrease is due to an approximately $31,000 decrease in consulting expense. Interest income and expenses. Interest income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was approximately $47,000 and $28,000, respectively. Interest income for each period related to interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $14.5 million and a working capital of approximately $14.2 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, we had a net loss of approximately $3.1 million and used approximately $2.8 million of cash in operations. Since inception, we have incurred recurring operating losses. At March 31, 2018, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $112.2 million We believe that our available working capital is sufficient to fund our presently forecasted working capital requirements for, at least, the next 12 months following the date of the filing of this report. However, the semiconductor industry is generally slow to adopt new manufacturing process technologies and conducts long testing and qualification processes which we have limited ability to control. In the event we require additional capital, we will endeavor to acquire additional funds through various financing sources, including follow-on equity offerings, debt financing and joint ventures with industry partners. On October 13, 2017, the SEC declared effective our Registration Statement on Form S-3 which enables us to issue equity and/or debt instruments in one or more offerings. In addition, we will consider alternatives to our current business plan that may enable to us to achieve revenue-producing operations and meaningful commercial success with a smaller amount of capital. However, there can be no guarantees that additional capital, whether under the S-3 Registration Statement or otherwise, will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to further pursue our business plan and we may be unable to continue operations. 12 Cash Flows from Operating, Investing and Financing Activities Net cash used in operating activities of approximately $2.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 resulted primarily from our net loss of approximately $3.1 million adjusted by approximately $545,000 for stock-based compensation expense and an increase of approximately $43,000 in accounts receivable and prepaids offset by a decrease of approximately $232,000 in accounts payable and other accrued expenses. Net cash used in operating activities of approximately $2.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 resulted primarily from our net loss of approximately $3.5 million adjusted by approximately $1.2 million for stock-based compensation expense, a decrease of approximately $331,000 in accrued payroll expense and an approximate $212,000 decrease in prepaid expenses. Net cash used in investing activities of approximately $10,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and approximately $8,000 for three months ended March 31, 2017 consisted of the purchase of property and equipment. No cash was used in or provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 or 2017. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements or issued guarantees to third parties. Recent Accounting Pronouncements We are required to adopt certain new accounting pronouncements. See note 3 to the condensed financial statements included in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Policies There have been no changes to our critical accounting policies from those included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC on March 6, 2018.