Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of Atomera Incorporated should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the accompanying notes that appear elsewhere in this Annual Report. Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. We use words such as anticipate, estimate, plan, project, continuing, ongoing, expect, believe, intend, may, will, should, could, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Although forward-looking statements in this Annual Report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value and effect, including those risk factors set forth in this Annual Report. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed herein and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Annual Report. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Annual Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Overview We are engaged in the business of developing, commercializing and licensing proprietary processes and technologies for the $450+ billion semiconductor industry. Our lead technology, named Mears Silicon Technology TM , or MST , is a thin film of reengineered silicon, typically 100 to 300 angstroms (or approximately 20 to 60 silicon atomic unit cells) thick. MST can be applied as a transistor channel enhancement to CMOS-type transistors, the most widely used transistor type in the semiconductor industry. MST is our proprietary and patent-protected performance enhancement technology that we believe addresses a number of key engineering challenges facing the semiconductor industry. We believe that by incorporating MST, transistors can be smaller, with increased speed, reliability and energy efficiency. In addition, since MST is an additive and low cost technology, we believe it can be deployed on an industrial scale, with machines commonly used in semiconductor manufacturing. We believe that MST can be widely incorporated into the most common types of semiconductor products, including analog, logic, optical and memory integrated circuits. We do not intend to design or manufacture integrated circuits directly. Instead, we intend to develop and license technologies and processes that we believe will offer the designers and manufacturers of integrated circuits a low-cost solution to the industry need for greater performance and lower power consumption. Our customers and partners are expected to include: foundries, which manufacture integrated circuits on behalf of fabless manufacturers; integrated device manufacturers, or IDMs, which are the fully integrated designers and manufacturers of integrated circuits; fabless semiconductor manufacturers, which are designers of integrated circuits who outsource the manufacture of their chips to foundries; original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, that manufacture the epitaxial, or EPI, machines used to deposit semiconductor layers, such as the MST film, onto the base silicon wafer; and electronic design automation companies, which make software tools used throughout the industry to simulate performance of semiconductor products using different materials, design structures and process technologies. 21 We intend to generate revenue through licensing arrangements whereby foundries and IDMs pay us a license fee for their right to use MST technology in the manufacture of silicon wafers as well as a royalty for each silicon wafer or device that incorporates our MST technology. We also intend to enter into licensing arrangements with fabless semiconductor manufacturers pursuant to which we will charge them a royalty for each device they sell that incorporates our MST technology. We were organized as a Delaware limited liability company under the name Nanovis LLC on November 26, 2001. On March 13, 2007, we converted to a Delaware corporation under the name Mears Technologies, Inc. On January 12, 2016, we changed our name to Atomera Incorporated. On March 17, 2015, we completed the private placement of $14.75 million in senior secured convertible promissory notes, which we issued for cash consideration of $7.40 million and the exchange for previously issued promissory notes that at the time of exchange had principal and accrued interest in the aggregate amount of $7.35 million. On April 1, 2016 we completed the private placement of an additional $5.96 million in senior secured convertible notes on the same terms as the promissory notes placed in March 2015. We refer to these promissory notes in this Annual Report as our Secured Notes. On August 10, 2016, we closed our initial public offering of 3,680,000 share of common stock at a public offering price of $7.50 per share. The common stock included 480,000 shares sold as a result of the underwriters exercise in full of its overallotment option. Gross proceeds to us from this offering were $27,600,000 before deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and other offering expenses. In accordance with the terms of the Secured Notes, all principal plus accrued interest (totaling approximately $23.5 million) converted automatically upon consummation of the IPO into 6,264,659 million shares of common stock. On October 15, 2018, we closed an underwritten public offering of 2,625,000 shares of common stock at a public offering price of $4.75 per share. We received approximately $11.4 million of net proceeds after deducting underwriting discounts and commission and other estimated offering expenses. Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 Revenues. To date, we have only generated limited revenue from customer engagements for integration engineering services and integration license agreements. In the future, we expect to collect increased fees from license agreements and royalties from customer sales of products that incorporate our MST technology, subject to our ability to enter into manufacturing and distribution license agreements with our current and future licensees. Our integration services consist of depositing our MST film on semiconductor wafers, delivering such wafers to customers to finalize building devices, and performing tests for customers evaluating MST. The integration license agreements we have entered into to date grant the licensees the right to build products that integrate our MST technology deposited by us onto their semiconductor wafers, but the agreements do not grant the licensees the rights to manufacture on their site or to sell products incorporating MST. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products, services or intellectual property (IP) rights in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those products, services or licensing of IP rights. The integration license agreements that we currently have in place do not specify the number of wafers to be delivered by us, so we recognize revenue over the period during which we estimate that we will deliver wafers under each contract. Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was approximately $246,000 and $110,000, respectively. Our revenue in 2018 was generated from integration services engagements and integration license agreements. Our revenue in 2017 was generated from integration services engagements. Cost of Revenue. Cost of revenue consists of costs of materials, as well as direct compensation and expenses incurred to provide integration engineering services. Cost of revenue was approximately $148,000 and $39,000 for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We anticipate that our cost of revenue will vary substantially depending on the mix of integration license and integration engineering services and the nature of products and/or services delivered in each customer engagement. Operating Expenses. Operating expenses consist of research and development, general and administrative, and selling and marketing expenses. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 our operating expenses totaled approximately $13.2 million and $13.3 million, respectively. 22 Research and development expense. To date, our operations have focused on the research, development, patent protection, and commercialization of our processes and technologies, including our proprietary and patent-protected MST performance enhancement technology. Our research and development costs primarily consist of payroll and benefit costs for our engineering staff and costs of outsourced fabrication and metrology of semiconductor wafers incorporating our MST technology. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we incurred approximately $7.3 million and $5.8 million, respectively, of research and development expense, an increase of approximately $1.5 million or 26%. The increase in research and development expense is primarily due to an increase of approximately $952,000 in spending on outsourced fabrication and metrology to support increased engagements with customers evaluating MST, an increase of approximately $463,000 in payroll expense reflecting an increase in engineering headcount and accrued bonuses and an increase in stock-based compensation expense of approximately $123,000 which was offset by approximately $64,000 decrease in professional fees. General and administrative expense. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of payroll and benefit costs for administrative personnel, office-related costs and professional fees. General and administrative costs for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were approximately $5.0 million and $5.8 million, respectively, representing a decrease of approximately $840,000 or 14%. The decrease is costs was primarily due to a decrease of approximately $1.1 million in stock compensation expense. Stock compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2017 included the full vesting of restricted stock grants made to certain members of our board of directors in connection with the completion of our initial public offering in August 2016. This decrease was partially offset by an approximate $256,000 increase in payroll related costs due to an increase in salaries and projected bonuses accrued for 2018 as compared to 2017. Selling and marketing expense. Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefits for our sales and marketing personnel and business development consulting services. Selling and marketing expenses for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were approximately $1.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively, representing a decrease of approximately $702,000, or 42%. The decrease primarily related to an approximate $632,000 decrease in stock compensation expense and an approximate $114,000 decrease in consulting expense. These decreases were offset by approximate $56,000 in payroll and related costs due to the increase in expected bonuses accrued for 2018 as compared to 2017. Interest income. Interest income for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was approximately $236,000 and $148,000, respectively. Interest income for each period related to interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Liquidity and Capital Resources On October 15, 2018 we closed an underwritten public offering of 2,625,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $4.75 per share, pursuant to our Registration Statement on Form S-3. We received approximately $11.4 million of net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and other estimate offering expenses As of December 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $18.9 million and working capital of approximately $17.7 million. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we had a net loss of approximately $12.9 million and used approximately $9.8 million of cash and cash equivalents in operations. Since inception, we have incurred recurring operating losses. At December 31, 2018, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $122.0 million. As of the date of this report, we believe that our available working capital is sufficient to fund our presently forecasted working capital requirements for, at least, the next 12 months following the date of the filing of this report. However, the semiconductor industry is generally slow to adopt new manufacturing process technologies and conducts long testing and qualification processes which we have limited ability to control, and there can be no assurance of the timing of our receipt of meaningful amounts of revenue. 23 If we are not able to generate sufficient revenue from license fees and royalties in a timeframe that satisfies our cash needs, we will need to raise more capital. In the event we require additional capital, we will endeavor to acquire additional funds through various financing sources, including follow-on equity offerings, debt financing and joint ventures with industry partners. In addition, we will consider alternatives to our current business plan that may enable to us to achieve revenue-producing operations and meaningful commercial success with a smaller amount of capital. However, there can be no guarantees that additional capital, whether under the S-3 Registration Statement or otherwise, will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to further pursue our business plan and we may be unable to continue operations. Cash Flows from Operating, Investing and Financing Activities: Net cash used in operating activities of approximately $9.8 million for year ended December 31, 2018 resulted primarily from our net loss of approximately $12.9 million adjusted by approximately $2.4 million for stock-based compensation expense and an increase of approximately $472,000 in accrued payroll expenses. Net cash used in operating activities of approximately $9.3 million for year ended December 31, 2017 resulted primarily from our net loss of approximately $13.1 million adjusted by approximately $4.1 million for stock-based compensation expense and an increase of approximately $152,000 in prepaids and other assets and decrease of approximately $155,000 in accounts payable. Net cash used by investing activities of approximately $23,000 and approximately $60,000 for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, consisted of the purchase of property and equipment. Net cash provided by financing activities of approximately $11.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 related to the net proceeds from our public offering in October 2018. No cash was used in or provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into off-balance sheet arrangements or issued guarantees to third parties.