Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of Atomera Incorporated should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the accompanying notes that appear elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. We use words such as anticipate, estimate, plan, project, continuing, ongoing, expect, believe, intend, may, will, should, could, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Although forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value and effect, including those risk factors set forth in this Quarterly Report. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed herein and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Quarterly Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Overview We are engaged in the business of developing, commercializing and licensing proprietary processes and technologies for the $550+ billion semiconductor industry. Our lead technology, named Mears Silicon Technology, or MST , is a thin film of reengineered silicon, typically 100 to 300 angstroms (or approximately 20 to 60 silicon atomic unit cells) thick. MST can be applied as a transistor channel enhancement to CMOS-type transistors, the most widely used transistor type in the semiconductor industry. MST is our proprietary and patent-protected performance enhancement technology that we believe addresses a number of key engineering challenges facing the semiconductor industry. We believe that by incorporating MST, transistors can be made smaller, with increased speed, reliability and power efficiency. In addition, since MST is an additive and low-cost technology, we believe it can be deployed on an industrial scale, with machines commonly used in semiconductor manufacturing. We believe that MST can be widely incorporated into the most common types of semiconductor products, including analog, logic, optical and memory integrated circuits. We do not intend to design or manufacture integrated circuits directly. Instead, we develop and license technologies and processes that we believe offer the designers and manufacturers of integrated circuits a low-cost solution to the industrys need for greater performance and lower power consumption. Our customers and partners include: foundries, which manufacture integrated circuits on behalf of fabless manufacturers; integrated device manufacturers, or IDMs, which are the fully integrated designers and manufacturers of integrated circuits; fabless semiconductor manufacturers, which are designers of integrated circuits that outsource the manufacture of their chips to foundries; original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, that manufacture the epitaxial, or EPI, machines used to deposit semiconductor layers, such as the MST film, onto the silicon wafer; and electronic design automation companies, which make tools used throughout the industry to simulate performance of semiconductor products using different materials, design structures and process technologies. 13 Our commercialization strategy is to generate revenue through licensing arrangements whereby foundries, IDMs and fabless semiconductor manufacturers pay us a license fee for their right to use MST technology in the manufacture of silicon wafers as well as a royalty for each silicon wafer or device that incorporates our MST technology. To date we have generated revenue from (i) licensing agreements with two IDMs, one fabless manufacturer and one foundry, (ii) a joint development agreement, or JDA, with a leading semiconductor provider and (ii) engineering services provided to foundries, IDMs and fabless companies. We were organized as a Delaware limited liability company under the name Nanovis LLC on November 26, 2001. On March 13, 2007, we converted to a Delaware corporation under the name Mears Technologies, Inc. On January 12, 2016, we changed our name to Atomera Incorporated. Between September 2020 and January 2021, we conducted an at-the-market offering of our common shares through Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, as agent, pursuant to which we sold 2,221,575 shares at an average price per share of approximately $11.25, resulting in approximately $24.2 million of net proceeds to us after deducting commissions and other offering expenses. Results of Operations Revenues . To date, we have only generated limited revenue from customer engagements for integration engineering services, integration license agreements and a manufacturing license granted under a JDA. In the future, we expect to collect increased fees from license agreements and JDAs as well as royalties from customer sales of products that incorporate our MST technology, subject to our ability to enter into manufacturing and distribution license agreements with our current and future licensees. Our integration services consist of depositing our MST film on semiconductor wafers, delivering such wafers to customers to finalize building devices, and performing tests for customers evaluating MST. The integration license agreements we have entered into grant the licensees the right to build products that integrate our MST technology deposited by us onto their semiconductor wafers, but the agreements do not grant the licensees the rights to manufacture MST-enabled wafers in their facilities or to sell products incorporating MST. Our JDA included the grant of a manufacturing license to our customer and we were paid for such license upon delivery of our IP transfer package which enabled our customer to install MST in a tool in their facility and to use it to manufacture wafers for internal use. This JDA also contained targeted technical specifications that, if met, would result in payment of a success fee to us. Those technical objectives have been met and we have invoiced our JDA customer for the success fee. For revenue recognition purposes, we have determined that the grant of rights in integration licenses is not distinct from the delivery of integration services, and therefore revenue from both integration licenses and integration services is recognized as the services are provided to the customer. In general, this is proportionate to the delivery of MST processed wafers to the customer, but if the agreements do not specify a time and quantity of wafer delivery, we will record revenue over the period of time of which we anticipate delivering an estimated quantity of wafers. We have also determined that the grant of our manufacturing license under the JDA confers a right to use our technology and accordingly revenue was recognized at the point in time when we delivered our IP transfer package. The success fee under our JDA was treated as engineering services revenue and recognized upon our customers confirmation that the JDAs technical objectives had been met. Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was $375,000 and $400,000, respectively. Our revenue in 2022 consisted of a success fee pursuant to our JDA and a license fees paid under an integration license agreement. Our revenue in 2021 consisted of a manufacturing license fee pursuant to our JDA. Cost of revenue . Cost of revenue consists of costs of materials, as well as direct compensation and expenses incurred to provide support for our success fee and wafers delivered as part of the integration license agreement. Cost of revenue was approximately $81,000 and $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We anticipate that our cost of revenue will vary substantially depending on the mix of license and engineering services revenues we receive and the nature of products and/or services delivered in each customer engagement. Operating expenses. Operating expenses consist of research and development, general and administrative, and selling and marketing expenses. For the months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 our operating expenses totaled approximately $4.3 million and $4.0 million, respectively. 14 Research and development expense . To date, our operations have focused on the research, development, patent prosecution, and commercialization of our MST technology and related technologies such as MSTcad. Our research and development costs primarily consist of payroll and benefit costs for our engineering staff and costs of outsourced fabrication (including epi tool leases) and metrology of semiconductor wafers incorporating our MST technology. For the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, we incurred approximately $2.3 million and $2.2 million, respectively, of research and development expense, an increase of approximately $110,000, or 5%. The increase was primarily due to approximately $400,000 of tool lease expense as the tool lease commenced in August 2021, offset by a reduction in payroll related expense of approximately $215,000 and reduction of approximately $120,000 in outsourced research and development expenses. General and administrative expense. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of payroll and benefit costs for administrative personnel, office-related costs and professional fees. General and administrative costs for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 were approximately $1.6 million and $1.5 million, respectively, representing an increase of approximately $135,000, or 9%. The increase in costs was primarily due to increases of approximately $122,000 in professional fees that include legal and patent fees and approximately $87,000 in insurance expenses, offset in part by a decrease of approximately $52,000 in payroll related expenses Selling and marketing expense. Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefits for our sales and marketing personnel and business development consulting services. Selling and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 were approximately $325,000 and $266,000, respectively, representing an increase of approximately $59,000, or 22%. The increase in costs is primarily related to increased spending in new marketing initiatives including a new PR firm. Interest income. Interest income for three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was approximately $3,000 and $2,000, respectively. Interest income for each period related to interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense. Interest expense for March 31, 2022 was approximately $71,000 and related to the new tool financing lease entered into in August 2021. There was no interest expense recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Provision for income taxes . The provision for income for March 31, 2021 was approximately $14,000 and related to income taxes due to a foreign country arising from withholding taxes imposed on payments received for revenue. There was no provision for income tax recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Cash Flows from Operating, Investing and Financing Activities Net cash used in operating activities of approximately $4.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 resulted primarily from our net loss of approximately $4.1 million and an increase in prepaid assets offset by stock-based compensation. Net cash used in operating activities of approximately $3.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 resulted primarily from our net loss of approximately $3.6 million, an increase of approximately $679,000 in prepaids and other assets and a decrease in accrued payroll, partly offset by $731,000 of stock-based compensation. Net cash used in investing activities of approximately $16,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and approximately $24,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2021 consisted of the purchase of computers, lab tools and leasehold improvements for the remodeled Los Gatos office space and lab tools to use with the new equipment lease in Tempe, AZ. Net cash used by financing activities of approximately $121,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2022 related to principal payments on our financing lease offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Net cash provided by financing activities of approximately $2.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 related to proceeds from the exercise of stock options and net proceeds from our at-the-market offering which began in September 2020 and concluded in January 2021. 15 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $24.5 million and working capital of approximately $23.1 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we had a net loss of approximately $4.1 million and used approximately $4.1 million of cash and cash equivalents in operations. Since inception, we have incurred recurring operating losses. Between September 2020 and January 2021, we conducted an at-the-market offering of our common shares through Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, as agent, pursuant to which we sold 2,221,575 shares at an average price per share of approximately $11.25, resulting in approximately $24.2 million of net proceeds to us after deducting commissions and other offering expenses. We believe that our available working capital is sufficient to fund our presently forecasted working capital requirements for, at least, the next 12 months following the date of the filing of this report. However, our future capital requirements and the adequacy of our available funds will depend on many factors, including our ability to successfully commercialize our MST technology, competing technological and market developments, and the need to enter into collaborations with other companies or acquire technologies to enhance or complement our current offerings. If we are not able to generate sufficient revenue from license fees and royalties in a timeframe that satisfies our cash needs, we will need to raise more capital. In the event we require additional capital, we will endeavor to acquire additional funds through various financing sources, including follow-on equity offerings, debt financing and joint ventures with industry partners. In addition, we will consider alternatives to our current business plan that may enable to us to achieve revenue-producing operations and meaningful commercial success with a smaller amount of capital. If we are unable to secure additional capital, we may be required to curtail our research and development initiatives and take additional measures to reduce costs in order to conserve its cash. Critical Accounting Estimates There have been no changes to our critical accounting estimates from those included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 filed with the SEC on February 15, 2022.