Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, our, us or we refer to Reinvent Technology Partners Y. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Quarterly Report) includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible business combinations and the financing thereof (including the proposed Aurora Business Combination (as defined below)), and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in the Risk Factors section of our final prospectus for our Initial Public Offering filed with the SEC on March 17, 2021 (the IPO Prospectus), in the Aurora Business Combination Registration Statement (as defined below) and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Our filings with the SEC can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, we disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on October 2, 2020 as a Cayman Islands exempted company for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination). While we may pursue an initial business combination target in any industry or geographic location, we intend to focus our search for a target business operating in the consumer internet, mobile gaming or broader technology sectors. Our sponsor is Reinvent Sponsor Y LLC, a Cayman Islands exempted limited liability company (our Sponsor). Our registration statement for our initial public offering (the Initial Public Offering) was declared effective on March 15, 2021. On March 18, 2021, we consummated our Initial Public Offering of 97,750,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the Class A ordinary shares included in the Units, the Public Shares), including 12,750,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments (the Over-Allotment Units), at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $977.5 million, and incurring offering costs of approximately $54.5 million, of which approximately $34.2 million and approximately $18,000 was for deferred underwriting commissions and deferred legal fees, respectively. Substantially concurrently with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private placement (the Private Placement) of 8,900,000 warrants (each, a Private Placement Warrant and collectively, the Private Placement Warrants), at a price of $2.50 per Private Placement Warrant to our Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $22.3 million. Upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement, an aggregate of $977.5 million ($10.00 per Unit) of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and certain of the proceeds of the Private Placement was placed in a trust account (Trust Account) with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee and invested in United States government treasury bills with a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds investing solely in U.S. Treasuries and meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act, as determined by the Company, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account as described below. 20 If we are unable to complete a Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering, or 27 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering if the Company has executed a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for an initial Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering (as such period may be extended, the Combination Period), we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up; (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to us to fund our working capital requirements, subject to an annual limit of $701,250, and/or to pay our income taxes, if any (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses and which interest shall be net of taxes payable) divided by the number of the then outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish Public Shareholders rights as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any); and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining shareholders and our board of directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject in each case, to our obligations under Cayman Islands law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. Recent Developments Aurora Business Combination On July 14, 2021, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Aurora Innovation, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Aurora), and Merger Sub. The Merger Agreement provides that, among other things and upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, the following transactions will occur (together with the other agreements and transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Aurora Business Combination): at the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement (the Closing), upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the Merger Agreement, in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as amended (the DGCL), Merger Sub will merge with and into Aurora, the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub will cease and Aurora will be the surviving corporation and our wholly owned subsidiary (the Merger); upon the effective time of the Domestication (defined below), we will immediately be renamed Aurora Innovation, Inc. (after the Domestication, the Company is referred to as Aurora Innovation); as a result of the Merger, among other things, all outstanding shares of Aurora capital stock will be cancelled in exchange for the right to receive shares of Aurora Innovation Class A common stock (at a deemed value of $10.00 per share) and shares of Aurora Innovation Class B common stock (at a deemed value of $10.00 per share) representing a pre-transaction equity value of Aurora of $11.0 billion; the Aurora Innovation Class B common stock will have the same economic terms as the Aurora Innovation Class A common stock, but the Aurora Innovation Class B common stock will carry ten votes per share while the Aurora Innovation Class A common stock will carry one vote per share; and as a result of the Merger, all outstanding Aurora equity awards outstanding as of immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger that will be converted into awards based on Aurora Innovation Class A common stock. Prior to the Closing, subject to the approval of our shareholders, and in accordance with the DGCL, Cayman Islands Companies Act (as revised) (the CICA) and our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, we will effect a deregistration under the CICA and a domestication under Section 388 of the DGCL, pursuant to which our jurisdiction of incorporation will be changed from the Cayman Islands to the State of Delaware (the Domestication). In connection with the Domestication, (i) each of the then issued and outstanding Class A ordinary shares will convert automatically, on a one-for-one basis, into a share of Aurora Innovation Class A common stock, (ii) each of the then issued and outstanding Class B ordinary shares will convert automatically, on a one-for-one basis, into a share of Aurora Innovation Class A common stock, (iii) each then issued and outstanding warrant of the Company will convert automatically into a warrant to acquire one share of Aurora Innovation Class A common stock (each a Aurora Innovation Class A Warrant), pursuant to the Warrant Agreement (the Warrant Agreement), dated March 15, 2021, between us and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and (iv) each then issued and outstanding Unit will separate automatically into a share of Aurora Innovation Class A common stock, on a one-for-one basis, and one-eighth of one Aurora Innovation Class A common stock. On July 14, 2021, concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, we entered into subscription agreements with certain investors, pursuant to, and on the terms and subject to the conditions of which, such investors have collectively subscribed for 100 million shares of Aurora Innovation Class A common stock for an aggregate purchase price equal to $1 billion (the PIPE Investment). The PIPE Investment will be consummated substantially concurrently with the Closing. 21 On July 14, 2021, we entered into the Sponsor Agreement (the Sponsor Agreement) with our Sponsor and Aurora, pursuant to which the parties thereto agreed, among other things, that (i) in the event that more than 22.5% of the outstanding Class A ordinary shares are redeemed, and our Sponsor, any affiliate of our Sponsor or any other person arranged by our Sponsor has not provided backstop or alternative financing to replace such redemptions above the 22.5% threshold, our Sponsor will forfeit a number of Class B ordinary shares then owned by our Sponsor immediately before the Domestication, with such number of forfeited Class B ordinary shares calculated on a sliding scale tied to the unreplaced redemptions, (ii) subject to the forfeiture (if any) described in the immediately preceding clause, shares of Aurora Innovation Class A common stock held by our Sponsor as of the Domestication will be subject to certain vesting and lock-up terms, (iii) our Sponsor will exercise all of its Aurora Innovation Class Warrants acquired by our Sponsor in the Private Placement for cash or on a cashless basis on or prior to the date upon which Aurora Innovation elects to redeem the public Aurora Innovation Class A Warrants in accordance with the Warrant Agreement, if the last reported sales price of the Aurora Innovation Class A common stock for any 20 trading days within the 30 trading-day period ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which notice of the redemption is given exceeds $18.00 per share (subject to certain adjustments), and (iv) our Sponsor will have the right to designate a Class III director to Aurora Innovations Board of Directors for the first and second terms of the Class III directors. The consummation of the proposed Aurora Business Combination is subject to certain conditions as further described in the Merger Agreement. For more information about the Merger Agreement and the proposed Aurora Business Combination, see our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 15, 2021 and our Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File Number 333-257912), which contains a preliminary proxy statement/prospectus related to the proposed Aurora Business Combination, initially filed with the SEC on July 15, 2021, as it may be amended from time to time (the Aurora Business Combination Registration Statement). Unless specifically stated, this Quarterly Report does not give effect to the proposed Aurora Business Combination and does not contain the risks associated with the proposed Aurora Business Combination. Such risks and effects relating to the proposed Aurora Business Combination are included in the Aurora Business Combination Registration Statement. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception through June 30, 2021 related to our formation, the preparation for the Initial Public Offering, and since the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the search for a prospective initial Business Combination, and the negotiation and execution of the proposed Aurora Business Combination. We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any operating revenues to date. We will not generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial Business Combination, at the earliest. We will generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and cash equivalents. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. Additionally, we recognize non-cash gains and losses within other income (expense) related to changes in recurring fair value measurement of our warrant liabilities at each reporting period. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had a net loss of approximately $3.6 million, which consisted of approximately $2.8 million change in the fair value of derivative warrant liabilities and approximately $800,000 in general and administrative costs, partially offset by approximately $35,000 gain on the investments held in the Trust Account. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, we had a net loss of approximately $5.8 million, which consisted of approximately $3.8 million change in the fair value of derivative warrant liabilities, $1.1 million in financing costs and approximately $1.0 million in general and administrative costs, partially offset by approximately $44,000 gain on the investments held in the Trust Account Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $501,000 in our operating bank account, working capital of approximately $977,000, and no interest income available in the Trust Account to fund our working capital requirements, subject to an annual limit of $701,250, and/or to pay our taxes, if any. Our liquidity needs have been satisfied prior to the completion of the Initial Public Offering through receipt of a $25,000 capital contribution from our Sponsor to cover certain expenses in exchange for the issuance of the Founder Shares (as defined in Part II, Item 2, Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds from Registered Securities), a loan of $295,000 from our Sponsor under a promissory note (the Note). We repaid the Note in full in March 2021 with proceeds from the Initial Public Offering. Subsequent to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering and Private Placement, our liquidity needs have been satisfied from the proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement not held in the Trust Account. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination (including the proposed Aurora Business Combination), our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, provide us working capital loans (Working Capital Loans). As of June 30, 2021, there were no amounts outstanding under any Working Capital Loan. 22 Based on the foregoing, management believes that we will have sufficient working capital and borrowing capacity from our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or our officers and directors to meet our needs through the earlier of the consummation of a Business Combination or one year from this filing. Over this time period, we have used, and will be using, these funds for paying existing accounts payable, identifying and evaluating prospective initial Business Combination candidates, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to merge with or acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Business Combination (including the proposed Aurora Business Combination). We continue to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and has concluded that the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of the balance sheet. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt obligations, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations, purchase obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement with Reinvent Capital LLC (Reinvent Capital) (the Support Services Agreement) to pay support services fees to Reinvent Capital that total $1,875,000 per year for support and administrative services, as well as reimburse Reinvent Capital for any out-of-pocket expenses it incurs in connection with providing services or for office space under this agreement. As of June 30, 2021, we paid $0 to Reinvent Capital as part of the Support Services Agreement and recognized approximately $390,600 and $468,800 which was recognized in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations and included in Due to Related Party on the condensed consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2021. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2021, we incurred approximately $83,200 and $94,300 in reimbursable expenses paid by our Sponsor recognized in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. As of June 30, 2021, $497,700 included in Due to Related Party on our condensed consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2021. Critical Accounting Policies This managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to fair value of financial instruments and accrued expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have identified the following as its critical accounting policies: Derivative Warrant Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of our financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to FASB ASC Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity and FASB ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. The warrants issued in the Initial Public Offering (the Public Warrants) and the Private Placement Warrants are recognized as derivative liabilities in accordance with ASC815. Accordingly, we recognize the warrant instruments as liabilities at fair value and adjust the instruments to fair value at each reporting period. The liabilities are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in the Companys condensed consolidated statement of operations. The fair value of the Public Warrants and Private Placement were initially measured at fair value using a Monte Carlo simulation model and subsequently, the fair value of the Private Placement Warrants have been estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model at each measurement date. The fair value of the Public Warrants have subsequently been measured based on the listed market price of such warrants. 23 Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A ordinary shares (including Class A ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at June 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, 90,037,563 and 0, respectively, Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of the Companys condensed consolidated balance sheet. Net Income (Loss) Per Ordinary Share Net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the periods. We have not considered the effect of the Public Warrants and the Private Placement Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 21,118,750 of our Class A ordinary shares in the calculation of diluted income (loss) per share, since their inclusion would be anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. Our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations include a presentation of income (loss) per share for ordinary shares subject to redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of income (loss) per share. Net income (loss) per ordinary share, basic and diluted for Class A ordinary shares are calculated by dividing the unrealized gain on investments held in the Trust Account, net of applicable taxes and interest to fund working capital requirements, subject to an annual limit of $701,250, available to be withdrawn from the Trust Account, resulting in income of approximately $35,000 and $44,000 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2021, respectively, by the weighted average number of Class A ordinary shares outstanding for the period. Net loss per ordinary share, basic and diluted for Class B ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the net income (loss), less income (loss) attributable to Class A ordinary shares by the weighted average number of Class B ordinary shares outstanding for the period. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2020, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current U.S. GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception, and it simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. The Company adopted ASU 2020-06 on January 1, 2021. Adoption of the ASU did not impact the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain 24 executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of the Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier. This may make comparison of the Companys financial statements with another public company that is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company that has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accounting standards used.