Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations does not reflect the consummation of the Aurora Business Combination, which, as discussed below, occurred subsequent to the period covered by this Quarterly Report. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, the expected results of the Aurora Business Combination and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in the Risk Factors section of our final prospectus for the Initial Public Offering filed with the SEC on March 17, 2021 (the IPO Prospectus), in the Aurora Business Combination Registration Statement (as defined below) and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Our filings with the SEC can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, we disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We were incorporated on October 2, 2020 as a Cayman Islands exempted company for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination). Our sponsor is Reinvent Sponsor Y LLC, a Cayman Islands exempted limited liability company (our Sponsor). We completed our initial public offering (the Initial Public Offering) on March 18, 2021 and completed a Business Combination on November 3, 2021 as described below. Recent Developments Aurora Business Combination On November 3, 2021, subsequent to the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2021, the fiscal quarter to which this Quarterly Report relates, we consummated the previously announced business combination (the Aurora Business Combination) with Aurora Innovation, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Aurora), and RTPY Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of RTPY (Merger Sub), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated July 14, 2021 (the Merger Agreement), by and among RTPY, Aurora and Merger Sub. Upon the consummation of the Aurora Business Combination: (i) Merger Sub merged with and into Aurora (the Merger) and the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub ceased, with Aurora surviving the Merger as our wholly-owned subsidiary; 18 Table of Contents (ii) as a result of the Merger, among other things, all outstanding shares of Aurora capital stock were cancelled in exchange for the right to receive shares of Aurora Innovation Class A common stock (at a deemed value of $10.00 per share) and shares of Aurora Innovation Class B common stock (at a deemed value of $10.00 per share), with the Aurora Innovation Class B common stock having the same economic terms as the Aurora Innovation Class A common stock, but the Aurora Innovation Class B common stock carrying ten votes per share while the Aurora Innovation Class A common stock carry one vote per share; and (iii) as a result of the Merger, all outstanding Aurora equity awards outstanding as of immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger converted into awards based on Aurora Innovation Class A common stock. Prior to the consummation of the Aurora Business Combination, following the approval of our shareholders, and in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as amended (the DGCL), Cayman Islands Companies Act (as revised) (the CICA) and our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, we effected a deregistration under the CICA and a domestication under Section 388 of the DGCL, pursuant to which our jurisdiction of incorporation was changed from the Cayman Islands to the State of Delaware (the Domestication). In connection with the Domestication, (i) each of our then issued and outstanding Class A ordinary shares converted automatically, on a one-for-one basis, into a share of Aurora Innovation Class A common stock, (ii) each of our then issued and outstanding Class B ordinary shares converted automatically, on a one-for-one basis, into a share of Aurora Innovation Class A common stock, (iii) each of our then issued and outstanding warrants converted automatically into a warrant to acquire one share of Aurora Innovation Class A common stock (each a Aurora Innovation Class A Warrant), pursuant to the Warrant Agreement (the Warrant Agreement), dated March 15, 2021, between us and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and (iv) each then issued and outstanding Unit separated automatically into a share of Aurora Innovation Class A common stock, on a one-for-one basis, and one-eighth of one Aurora Innovation Class A common stock. As previously announced, on July 14, 2021, concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, we entered into subscription agreements with certain investors (collectively, the PIPE Investors), pursuant to, and on the terms and subject to the conditions of which, the PIPE Investors collectively subscribed for 100 million shares of Aurora Innovation Class A common stock for an aggregate purchase price equal to $1 billion (the PIPE Investment). The PIPE Investment was consummated substantially concurrently with the consummation of the Aurora Business Combination. As previously announced, on July 14, 2021, concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, the Company entered into the Sponsor Agreement with its sponsor, Reinvent Sponsor Y LLC, a Cayman Islands limited liability company (the Sponsor), and Aurora, pursuant to which the parties thereto agreed, among other things, that in the event that more than 22.5% of the outstanding Class A ordinary shares are redeemed, and the Sponsor, any affiliate of the Sponsor or any other person arranged by the Sponsor has not provided backstop or alternative financing to replace such redemptions above the 22.5% threshold, the Sponsor will forfeit a number of Class B ordinary shares then owned by the Sponsor immediately before the Domestication, with such number of forfeited Class B ordinary shares calculated on a sliding scale tied to the unreplaced redemptions. 77.196% of the outstanding Class A ordinary shares were redeemed, resulting in the Sponsor forfeiting 17,434,414 Class B ordinary shares. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception through September 30, 2021 related to our formation, the preparation for the Initial Public Offering, and since the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the search for a prospective initial Business Combination, and the negotiation and execution of the proposed Aurora Business Combination. We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any operating revenues to date. We will not generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial Business Combination, at the earliest. We will generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and cash equivalents. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. Additionally, we recognize non-cash gains and losses within other income (expense) related to changes in recurring fair value measurement of our warrant liabilities at each reporting period. For the three months ended September 30, 2021, we had a net loss of approximately $391,000, which consisted of approximately $7.2 million in general and administrative costs partially offset by approximately $6.8 million change in the fair value of derivative warrant liabilities and approximately $13,000 gain on the investments held in the Trust Account. 19 Table of Contents For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, we had a net loss of approximately $6.2 million, which consisted of approximately $8.2 million in general and administrative costs and $1.1 million in financing costs partially offset by approximately $3.0 million change in the fair value of derivative warrant liabilities and approximately $56,000 gain on the investments held in the Trust Account. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2021, we had approximately $263,000 in our operating bank account, negative working capital of approximately $6.2 million, and no interest income available in the Trust Account to fund our working capital requirements, subject to an annual limit of $701,250, and/or to pay our taxes, if any. Our liquidity needs have been satisfied prior to the completion of the Initial Public Offering through receipt of a $25,000 capital contribution from our Sponsor to cover certain expenses in exchange for the issuance of the Founder Shares (as defined in Part II, Item 2, Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds from Registered Securities), a loan of $295,000 from our Sponsor under a promissory note (the Note). We fully repaid the Note in March 2021. Subsequent to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering and Private Placement, our liquidity needs were satisfied from the proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement not held in the Trust Account. We continue to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and has concluded that the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of the balance sheet. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We used substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account to complete the Aurora Business Combination. Funds held in the Trust Account were also used to fund the redemption of common stock. Contractual Obligations As of September 30, 2021, we did not have any long-term debt obligations, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations, purchase obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement with Reinvent Capital LLC (Reinvent Capital) (the Support Services Agreement) to pay support services fees to Reinvent Capital that total $1,875,000 per year for support and administrative services, as well as reimburse Reinvent Capital for any out-of-pocket expenses it incurs in connection with providing services or for office space under this agreement. As of September 30, 2021, we paid $0 to Reinvent Capital as part of the Support Services Agreement and recognized approximately $468,800 and $937,500 which was recognized in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations and included in Due to related party on the condensed consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2021. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021, we incurred approximately $113,000 and $207,300 in reimbursable expenses paid by our Sponsor recognized in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. As of September 30, 2021, $968,700 was included in Due to related party on our condensed consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2021. Critical Accounting Policies This managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to fair value of financial instruments and accrued expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have identified the following as its critical accounting policies: 20 Table of Contents Derivative Warrant Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of our financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to FASB ASC Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480) and FASB ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. The warrants issued in the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement Warrants are recognized as derivative liabilities in accordance with ASC 815. Accordingly, we recognize the warrant instruments as liabilities at fair value and adjust the instruments to fair value at each reporting period. The liabilities are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in the Companys condensed consolidated statement of operations. The fair value of warrants issued in connection with the Initial Public Offering and Private Placement were initially measured at fair value using a Monte Carlo simulation model and subsequently, the fair value of the Private Placement Warrants have been estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model at each measurement date. The fair value of Warrants issued in connection with the Initial Public Offering have subsequently been measured based on the listed market price of such warrants Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in ASC 480. Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A ordinary shares (including Class ordinary shares that features redemption rights that were either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that were considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, as of September 30, 2021, 97,750,000 Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our balance sheet. There were no Class A ordinary shares issued or outstanding as of December 31, 2020. Immediately upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we recognized the accretion from initial book value to redemption amount. The change in the carrying value of redeemable shares of Class A ordinary shares resulted in charges against additional paid-in capital and accumulated deficit. Net Income (Loss) Per Ordinary Share We have two classes of shares: Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Income and losses are shared pro rata between the two classes of shares. Net income (loss) per ordinary share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the periods. We have not considered the effect of the warrants sold in the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement to purchase an aggregate of 21,118,750, of the Companys Class A ordinary shares in the calculation of diluted net income (loss) per share, since their inclusion would be anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. As a result, diluted net income (loss) per share is the same as basic net income (loss) per share for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021. Accretion associated with the Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption is excluded from earnings per share as the redemption value approximates fair value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2020, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception, and it simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. The Company adopted ASU 2020-06 on January 1, 2021. Adoption of the ASU did not impact the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 21 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and, under the JOBS Act, are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of the Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier. This may make comparison of the Companys financial statements with another public company that is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company that has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accounting standards used.