Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited) included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including those set forth in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors and under the heading Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, references to Aurora, we, us, our and other similar terms in this section refer to Aurora Innovation, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Percentage amounts have not in all cases been calculated on the basis of such rounded figures, but on the basis of such amounts prior to rounding. For this reason, percentage amounts may vary from those obtained by performing the same calculations using the figures in our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain other amounts that appear in this Quarterly Report may not sum due to rounding. Corporate History and Background On November 3, 2021 (the Closing Date), Aurora Innovation, Inc. (f/k/a Reinvent Technology Partners Y and referred to herein as the Company), consummated a business combination with Aurora Innovation Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (f/k/a Aurora Innovation, Inc. and referred to herein as Legacy Aurora), and RTPY Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (Merger Sub), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated July 14, 2021 (the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, the Merger), by and among the Company, Legacy Aurora and Merger Sub. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, a business combination between the Company and Legacy Aurora was effected through the merger of Merger Sub with and into Legacy Aurora, with Legacy Aurora continuing as the surviving company and as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. On the Closing Date, the Company changed its name from Reinvent Technology Partners Y to Aurora Innovation, Inc. Auroras Business Aurora is developing the Aurora Driver based on what we believe to be the most advanced and scalable suite of self-driving hardware, software, and data services in the world to fundamentally transform the global transportation market. The Aurora Driver is designed as a platform to adapt and interoperate amongst vehicle types and applications. To date, it has been successfully integrated into numerous different vehicle platforms: from passenger vehicles to light commercial vehicles to Class 8 trucks. By creating one driver system for multiple vehicle types and use cases, Auroras capabilities in one market reinforce and strengthen its competitive advantages in others. For example, highway driving capabilities developed for trucking will carry to highway segments driven by passenger vehicles in ride hailing applications. We believe this approach will enable us to target and transform multiple massive markets, including trucking, passenger mobility, and local goods delivery market. We expect that the Aurora Driver will ultimately be commercialized in a Driver as a Service (DaaS) business model, in which we will supply self-driving technology. We do not intend to own nor operate a large number of vehicles ourselves. Throughout commercialization, we expect to earn revenue on a fee per mile basis. We intend to partner with OEMs, fleet operators, and other third parties to commercialize and support Aurora-powered vehicles. We expect that these strategic partners will support activities such as vehicle manufacturing, financing and leasing, service and maintenance, parts replacement, facility ownership and operation, and other commercial and operational services as needed. We expect this DaaS model to enable an asset-light and high margin revenue stream for Aurora, while allowing us to scale more rapidly through partnerships. During the start of commercialization, though, we expect to briefly operate our own logistics and mobility services, where we own and operate a small fleet of vehicles equipped with our Aurora Driver. This level of control is useful during early commercialization as we will define operational processes and playbooks for our partners. We plan to first launch Aurora Horizon, our driverless trucking subscription service, as we believe that is where we can make the largest impact the fastest, given the massive industry demand, attractive unit economics, and the ability to deploy on high volume highway-focused routes. Future success will be dependent on our ability to execute against our product roadmap to launch Aurora Horizon. From there, we plan to leverage the extensibility of the Aurora Driver to deploy and scale into the passenger mobility market with Aurora Connect, our driverless ride hailing subscription service, and in the longer-term the local goods delivery market. 12 Table of Contents Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 The following table sets forth a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the periods indicated, and the changes between periods. Three Months Ended March 31, $ Change % Change 2023 2022 (in millions, except for percentages) Collaboration revenue $ $ 42 $ (42) (100) % Operating expenses: Research and development 177 154 23 15 % Selling, general and administrative 31 31 % Total operating expenses 208 185 23 12 % Loss from operations (208) (143) (65) 45 % Other income (expense): Change in fair value of derivative liabilities (2) 66 (68) (103) % Other income, net 14 14 n/m(1) Loss before income taxes (196) (77) (119) 155 % Income tax expense n/m(1) Net loss $ (196) $ (77) $ (119) 155 % (1) Not meaningful. Collaboration revenue Collaboration revenue was $42 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022 under the collaboration project plan with Toyota Motor Corporation. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had recognized all revenue associated with cash payments received under the collaboration project plan and, in turn, no revenue was recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Operating expenses Research and development increased by $23 million, or 15%, to $177 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023 from $154 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily driven by an increase in personnel costs, stock-based compensation, and cloud computing costs. Selling, general and administrative of $31 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023 was unchanged from the three months ended March 31, 2022. Other income (expense) The change in fair value of derivative liabilities was a loss of $2 million and a gain of $66 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, primarily due to the change in the market price for the underlying instrument during each period. Other income, net increased by $14 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to income from cash equivalents and short-term investments. 13 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity were $175 million of cash and cash equivalents and $791 million of short-term investments, exclusive of restricted cash of $20 million. Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of money market funds and U.S. Treasury securities. Short-term investments consist of U.S. Treasury securities. We have incurred negative cash flows from operating activities and significant losses from operations in the past. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and that we will need to opportunistically raise additional capital to support the continued development and commercialization of the Aurora Driver. We believe our cash on hand and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for a period of at least twelve months from the date of this Quarterly Report. Worldwide economic conditions remain uncertain, particularly due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and increased inflation. The general economic and capital market conditions both in the U.S. and worldwide, have been volatile in the past. The capital and credit markets may not be available to support future capital raising activity on favorable terms. If economic conditions decline, our future cost of equity or debt capital and access to the capital markets could be adversely affected. Cash Flows Cash flows for the periods were as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (136) $ (136) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 54 (971) Net cash provided by financing activities 2 Net decrease (82) (1,105) Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at beginning of the period 277 1,626 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at end of the period $ 195 $ 521 Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $136 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we received payments of $48 million under the collaboration project plan with Toyota, which were substantially offset by payments associated with the 2021 annual incentive compensation program. Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 were not impacted by these cash activities. Cash payments associated with the 2022 annual incentive compensation program were made subsequent to March 31, 2023. Cash Flows Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $54 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to cash received from net maturities of short-term investments. Net cash used by investing activities was $971 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily due to the purchase of short-term investments. Cash used for purchases of property and equipment were $2 million and $5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Cash Flows Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was not significant in the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. 14 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies Aurora may be party to various claims within the normal course of business. Legal fees and other costs associated with such actions are expensed as incurred. We assess the need to record a liability for litigation and other loss contingencies, with reserve estimates recorded if we determine that a loss related to the matter is both probable and reasonably estimable. No material losses were recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. Critical Accounting Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. Preparation of the financial statements requires our management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that impact the reported amount of revenue and expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We consider an accounting judgment, estimate or assumption to be critical when (1) the estimate or assumption is complex in nature or requires a high degree of judgment and (2) the use of different judgments, estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2022. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates since our Annual Report. Emerging Growth Company Status Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect not to take advantage of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, and any such election to not take advantage of the extended transition period is irrevocable. We are an emerging growth company as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and have elected to take advantage of the benefits of this extended transition period. This may make it difficult to compare our financial results with the financial results of other public companies that are either not emerging growth companies or emerging growth companies that have chosen not to take advantage of the extended transition period.