Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited) included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including those set forth in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report and Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors and under the heading Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, references to Aurora, we, us, our and other similar terms in this section refer to Aurora Innovation, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Percentage amounts have not in all cases been calculated on the basis of rounded figures, but on the basis of such amounts prior to rounding. For this reason, percentage amounts may vary from those obtained by performing the same calculations using the figures in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain other amounts that appear in this Quarterly Report may not sum due to rounding. Corporate History and Background On November 3, 2021 (the Closing Date), Aurora Innovation, Inc. (f/k/a Reinvent Technology Partners Y and referred to herein as the Company), consummated a business combination with Aurora Innovation Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (f/k/a Aurora Innovation, Inc. and referred to herein as Legacy Aurora), and RTPY Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (Merger Sub), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated July 14, 2021 (the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, the Merger), by and among the Company, Legacy Aurora and Merger Sub. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, a business combination between the Company and Legacy Aurora was effected through the merger of Merger Sub with and into Legacy Aurora, with Legacy Aurora continuing as the surviving company and as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. On the Closing Date, the Company changed its name from Reinvent Technology Partners Y to Aurora Innovation, Inc. Auroras Business Aurora is developing the Aurora Driver based on what we believe to be the most advanced and scalable suite of self-driving hardware, software, and data services in the world to fundamentally transform the global transportation market. The Aurora Driver is designed as a platform to adapt and interoperate amongst vehicle types and applications. To date, it has been successfully integrated into numerous different vehicle platforms: from passenger vehicles to light commercial vehicles to Class 8 trucks. By creating one driver system for multiple vehicle types and use cases, Auroras capabilities in one market reinforce and strengthen its competitive advantages in others. For example, highway driving capabilities developed for trucking will carry over to highway segments driven by passenger vehicles in ride-hailing applications. We believe this approach will enable us to target and transform the transportation landscape, including trucking, passenger mobility, and local goods delivery market. We expect that the Aurora Driver will ultimately be commercialized in a Driver as a Service (DaaS) business model, in which customers or third parties will purchase, manage, and maintain fleets directly, while subscribing to the Aurora Driver and a suite of related services. We do not intend to own nor operate a large number of vehicles ourselves. Throughout commercialization, we expect to earn revenue on a fee per mile basis. We intend to partner with OEMs, Tier 1 automotive suppliers, fleet operators, and other third parties to commercialize and support Aurora Driver-powered vehicles. We expect that these strategic partners will support activities such as vehicle and hardware manufacturing, financing and leasing, service and maintenance, parts replacement, facility ownership and operation, and other commercial and operational services as needed. We expect this DaaS model to enable an asset-light and high margin revenue stream for Aurora, while allowing us to scale more rapidly through partnerships. During the start of commercialization, though, we expect to briefly operate our own logistics and mobility services, where we own or lease and operate a small fleet of vehicles equipped with our Aurora Driver. This level of control is useful during early commercialization as we define operational processes and playbooks for our partners. 15 Table of Contents We plan to first launch Aurora Driver for Freight (formerly Aurora Horizon), our driverless trucking subscription service, as we believe that is where we can make the largest impact the fastest, given the massive industry demand, attractive unit economics, and the ability to deploy on high volume highway-focused routes. Future success will be dependent on our ability to execute against our product roadmap to launch Aurora Driver for Freight. From there, we plan to leverage the extensibility of the Aurora Driver to deploy and scale into the passenger mobility market with Aurora Driver for Rides (formerly Aurora Connect), our driverless ride hailing subscription service, and in the longer-term the local goods delivery market. 16 Table of Contents Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 The following table sets forth a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the periods indicated, and the changes between periods. Three Months Ended March 31, $ Change % Change (in millions, except for percentages) 2024 2023 Operating expenses: Research and development $ 166 $ 177 $ (11) (6) % Selling, general and administrative 27 31 (4) (13) % Total operating expenses 193 208 (15) (7) % Loss from operations (193) (208) 15 (7) % Other income (expense): Change in fair value of derivative liabilities 12 (2) 14 n/m(1) Other income, net 16 14 2 14 % Loss before income taxes (165) (196) 31 (16) % Income tax expense n/m(1) Net loss $ (165) $ (196) $ 31 (16) % (1) Not meaningful. Operating expenses Research and development decreased by $11 million, or 6%, to $166 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $177 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily driven by a decrease in hardware development expense. Research and development included non-cash stock-based compensation of $31 million and $34 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Selling, general and administrative decreased by $4 million, or 13%, to $27 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $31 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily driven by a decrease in personnel costs. Selling, general and administrative included non-cash stock-based compensation of $5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. Other income (expense) The change in fair value of derivative liabilities was income of $12 million and expense of $2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, primarily due to the change in the market price for the underlying instrument during each period. Other income, net increased by $2 million, or 14%, to $16 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024, from $14 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to an increase in interest income earned on cash equivalents and investments. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity were $454 million of cash and cash equivalents, $662 million of short-term investments, and $81 million of long-term investments with maturities within 2 years, exclusive of restricted cash of $17 million. Short-term and long-term investments consist of primarily U.S. Treasury securities as well as corporate bonds and commercial paper. We have incurred negative cash flows from operating activities and significant losses from operations in the past. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and that we will need to opportunistically raise additional capital to support the continued development and commercialization of the Aurora Driver. We expect our total liquidity will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for a period of at least twelve months from the date of this Quarterly Report. 17 Table of Contents Worldwide economic conditions remain uncertain, particularly increased inflation. The general economic and capital market conditions both in the U.S. and worldwide, have been volatile in the past. The capital and credit markets may not be available to support future capital raising activity on favorable terms. If economic conditions decline, our future cost of equity or debt capital and access to the capital markets could be adversely affected. Cash Flows Cash flows for the periods were as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net cash used in operating activities $ (150) $ (136) Net cash provided by investing activities 101 54 Net cash provided by financing activities 2 Net decrease (47) (82) Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at beginning of the period 518 277 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at end of the period $ 471 $ 195 Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $150 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $14 million from $136 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily due to advanced payments for hardware materials for fleet builds. Cash Flows Provided by Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $101 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $47 million from $54 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily due to an increase in cash received from net maturities of investments. Cash Flows Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities were not significant in the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. 18 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies Aurora may be party to various claims within the normal course of business. Legal fees and other costs associated with such actions are expensed as incurred. We assess the need to record a liability for litigation and other loss contingencies, with reserve estimates recorded if we determine that a loss related to the matter is both probable and reasonably estimable. No material losses were recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. Critical Accounting Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. Preparation of the financial statements requires our management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that impact the reported amount of revenue and expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We consider an accounting judgment, estimate or assumption to be critical when (1) the estimate or assumption is complex in nature or requires a high degree of judgment and (2) the use of different judgments, estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2023. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates since our Annual Report.