Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The level of importance of each of the following risks may vary from time to time, and any of these risks may have a material effect on our business. Changes in laws and regulations may decrease our revenues and earnings Our business is subject to a wide range of complex laws and regulations. Changes in laws or governmental regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations by a regulatory authority, may decrease our revenues and earnings and may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business. For example, a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to government authorities would adversely impact interest income from investing client funds before such funds are remitted to the applicable taxing authorities or client employees. Changes in taxation requirements in the United States or in other countries could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our net income. Changes in laws that govern the co-employment arrangement between a professional employer organization and its worksite employees may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our PEO business. Health care reform under the Affordable Care Act, as amended, related state laws, and the regulations adopted or to be adopted thereunder, have the potential to impact substantially the way that employers provide health insurance to employees and the health insurance market for the small and mid-sized businesses that comprise ADP TotalSource's clients and prospects. We are unable to determine the ultimate impact that health care reform will have on our PEO business and our ability to attract and retain PEO clients. Amendments to money transmitter statutes have required us to receive licenses in some jurisdictions, and the adoption of new money transmitter statutes in other jurisdictions, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing statutes, in the future could require additional registration or licensing, as well as possible changes to the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our money movement business or our client funds investment strategy. Cybersecurity and privacy breaches may hurt our business, damage our reputation, increase our costs, and cause losses Our systems and networks store personal information about our clients and employees of our clients. In addition, our retirement services systems maintain investor account information for retirement plans. We have security systems and information technology infrastructure in place designed to protect against unauthorized access to such information. However, there is still a risk that the security systems and infrastructure that we maintain may not be successful in protecting against all security breaches and cyber attacks. Third parties, including vendors that provide services for our operations, could also be a source of security risk to us in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure. Any significant violations of data privacy could result in the loss of business, litigation, regulatory investigations, and penalties that could damage our reputation and adversely affect the growth of our business. Our systems may be subject to disruptions that could adversely affect our business and reputation Many of our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions. We rely heavily on our payroll, financial, accounting, and other data processing systems. If any of these systems fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention, or damage to our reputation. We have disaster recovery, business continuity, and crisis management plans and procedures designed to protect our businesses against a multitude of events including natural disasters, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures, or similar events. Despite our preparations, our plans may not be successful in preventing the loss of client data, service interruptions, disruptions to our operations, or damage to our important facilities. If we fail to adapt our technology to meet client needs and preferences, the demand for our services may diminish Our businesses operate in industries that are subject to rapid technological advances and changing client needs and preferences. In order to remain competitive and responsive to client demands, we continually upgrade, enhance, and expand our existing solutions and services. If we fail to respond successfully to technology challenges, the demand for our services may diminish. 11 Political and economic factors may adversely affect our business and financial results Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and volatility. When there is a slowdown in the economy, employment levels and interest rates may decrease with a corresponding impact on our businesses. Clients may react to worsening conditions by reducing their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services or renegotiating their contracts with us. In addition, a reduction in availability of financing during such conditions, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings, may limit our access to short-term debt markets to meet liquidity needs required by our Employer Services business. We invest our client funds in liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, money market securities, and other cash equivalents. Nevertheless, our client fund assets are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated, individually or in unison, during periods of unusual financial market volatility. We are dependent upon various large banks to execute Automated Clearing House and wire transfers as part of our client payroll and tax services. While we have contingency plans in place for bank failures, a systemic shutdown of the banking industry would impede our ability to process funds on behalf of our payroll and tax services clients and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity. We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income outside of the United States and, as a result, we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Change in our credit ratings could adversely impact our operations and lower our profitability The major credit rating agencies periodically evaluate our creditworthiness and have consistently given us their highest long-term debt and commercial paper ratings. Failure to maintain high credit ratings on long-term and short-term debt could increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to obtain intra-day borrowing required by our Employer Services business, and ultimately reduce our client interest revenue. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel Our ability to grow and provide our clients with competitive services is partially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly motivated people with the skills to serve our clients. Competition for skilled employees in the outsourcing and other markets in which we operate is intense and, if we are unable to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated personnel, results of our operations may suffer. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties ADP owns 12 of its processing/print centers, and 23 other operational offices, sales offices, and its corporate headquarters in Roseland, New Jersey, which aggregate approximately 3,620,235 square feet. None of ADP's owned facilities is subject to any material encumbrances. ADP leases space for some of its processing centers, other operational offices, and sales offices. All of these leases, which aggregate approximately 6,496,743 square feet in North America, Europe, South America, Asia, Australia and Africa, expire at various times up to the year 2036. ADP believes its facilities are currently adequate for their intended purposes and are adequately maintained. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, ADP is subject to various claims and litigation. While the outcome of any litigation is inherently unpredictable, ADP believes that it has valid defenses with respect to the legal matters pending against it and that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 12 Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market for the Registrant's Common Equity The principal market for the Company's common stock (symbol: ADP) is the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The following table sets forth the reported high and low sales prices of the Company's common stock reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the cash dividends per share of common stock declared, during the past two fiscal years. As of July 12, 2013, there were 45,423 holders of record of the Company's common stock. As of such date, 452,381 additional holders held their common stock in street name. Price Per Share Dividends High Low Per Share Fiscal 2013 quarter ended: June 30 $72.00 $63.30 $0.435 March 31 $65.12 $57.75 $0.435 December 31 $59.96 $54.02 $0.435 September 30 $59.50 $54.85 $0.395 Fiscal 2012 quarter ended: June 30 $56.19 $50.89 $0.395 March 31 $57.10 $53.31 $0.395 December 31 $54.62 $45.85 $0.395 September 30 $55.02 $44.72 $0.360 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of the Publicly Announced Common Stock Repurchase Plan (2) Maximum Number of Shares that may yet be Purchased under the Common Stock Repurchase Plan (2) April 1, 2013 to April 30, 2013 240,833 $64.95 240,455 27,878,997 May 1, 2013 to May 31, 2013 1,818,409 $69.95 1,787,600 26,091,397 June 1, 2013 to June 30, 2013 1,559,198 $68.51 1,559,198 24,532,199 Total 3,618,440 3,587,253 (1) Pursuant to the terms of the Company's restricted stock program, the Company purchased 378 shares during April 2013, and 30,809 shares during May 2013, at the then market value of the shares in connection with the exercise by employees of their option under such program to satisfy certain tax withholding requirements through the delivery of shares to the Company instead of cash. (2) The Company received the Board of Directors' approval to repurchase shares of the Company's common stock as follows: 13 Date of Approval Shares March 2001 50 million November 2002 35 million November 2005 50 million August 2006 50 million August 2008 50 million June 2011 35 million There is no expiration date for the common stock repurchase plan. Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative return on the Company's common stock for the most recent five years with the cumulative return on the S&P 500 Index and a Peer Group Index, assuming an initial investment of $100 on June 30, 2008, with all dividends reinvested. * The Peer Group Index is comprised of the following companies: Insperity, Inc. Paychex, Inc. Computer Sciences Corporation The Ultimate Software Group, Inc. Global Payments Inc. Total System Services, Inc. Intuit Inc. The Western Union Company 14 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data is derived from our consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and