Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The level of importance of each of the following risks may vary from time to time, and any of these risks may have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or reputation. Failure to comply with, or changes in, laws and regulations applicable to our businesses could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences Our business is subject to a wide range of complex U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations described in the Industry Regulation section in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations or client solutions and services could result in the suspension or revocation of licenses or registrations, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, and the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, that could damage our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. In addition, changes in laws or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of laws or regulations by a regulatory authority, may decrease our revenues and earnings and may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business. For example, a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to government authorities would adversely impact average client balances and, thereby, adversely impact interest income from investing client funds before such funds are remitted to the applicable taxing authorities. Changes in taxation regulations could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our net income. Changes in laws that govern the co-employment arrangement between a professional employer organization and its worksite employees may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our PEO business. Health care reform under the Affordable Care Act, related state laws, and the regulations thereunder, as well as the uncertainty surrounding the Affordable Care Act, have the potential to further impact the health insurance market for our PEO business and the demand for our health care compliance solutions. We are unable to determine the additional impact that any of this will have on our PEO business, our ability to attract and retain PEO clients or demand for our health care compliance solutions. Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, economic and trade sanctions, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, and similar laws could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences Regulators worldwide are exercising heightened scrutiny with respect to anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions, and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. Such heightened scrutiny has resulted in more aggressive investigations and enforcement of such laws and more burdensome regulations, any of which could materially adversely impact our business. We operate our business around the world, including in numerous developing economies where companies and government officials are more likely to engage in business practices that are prohibited by domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. Such laws generally prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign government officials and leaders of political parties, and in some cases, to other persons, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We are also subject to economic and trade sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control, which prohibit or restrict transactions or dealings with specified countries, their governments and, in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially designated, including narcotics traffickers and terrorists or terrorist organizations, among others. In addition, some of our businesses and entities in the U.S. and a number of other countries in which we operate are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including, for example, The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2000 (the BSA). Among other things, the BSA requires certain financial institutions, including banks and money services businesses (such as national trust banks and providers of prepaid access like us), to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity, and maintain transaction records. We have registered our payroll card business, as a provider of prepaid access pursuant to applicable regulation, and our ADP Trust Bank with the Treasury Departments Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). We have implemented policies and procedures to monitor and address compliance with applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions and anti-money laundering laws and regulations, and we are continuously in the process of reviewing, upgrading and enhancing certain of our policies and procedures. However, there can be no assurance that our employees, consultants or agents will not take actions in violation of our policies for which we may be ultimately responsible, or that our policies and procedures will be adequate or will be determined to be adequate by regulators. Any violations of applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions or anti-money laundering laws or regulations could limit certain of our business activities until they are satisfactorily remediated and could result in civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. Further, bank regulators, including the OCC which regulates the ADP Trust Bank, are imposing additional and stricter requirements on banks to ensure they are meeting their BSA obligations, and banks are increasingly viewing money services businesses, as a class, to be higher risk customers for money laundering. As a result, our banking partners that assist in processing our money movement transactions may limit the scope of services they provide to us or may impose additional material requirements on us. These regulatory restrictions on banks and changes to banks internal risk-based policies and procedures may result in a decrease in the number of banks that may do business with us, may require us to materially change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business, may decrease our revenues and earnings and could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Failure to comply with privacy, data protection and cyber security laws and regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences The collection, storage, hosting, transfer, processing, disclosure, use, security and retention and destruction of personal information required to provide our services is subject to federal, state and foreign privacy, data protection and cyber security laws. These laws, which are not uniform, generally do one or more of the following: regulate the collection, storage, hosting, transfer (including in some cases, the transfer outside the country of collection), processing, disclosure, use, security and retention and destruction of personal information; require notice to individuals of privacy practices; give individuals certain access and correction rights with respect to their personal information; and regulate the use or disclosure of personal information for secondary purposes such as marketing. Under certain circumstances, some of these laws require us to provide notification to affected individuals, clients, data protection authorities and/or other regulators in the event of a data breach. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information among the Company and its subsidiaries. The European Union (the EU) General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR), and the California Consumer Protection Act (the CCPA), which became effective on January 1, 2020, are among the most comprehensive of these laws. As part of our overall data protection compliance program in connection with the GDPR, we implemented Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) as both a data processor and data controller, which permits us to process and transfer personal data across borders in compliance with EU data protection laws. Complying with these laws and requirements, including the enhanced obligations imposed by the GDPR, our BCRs and the CCPA, may result in significant costs to our business and require us to amend certain of our business practices. Further, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. The future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations and/or future enforcement actions or investigations could have a materially adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our businesses and noncompliance could result in significant regulatory penalties and legal liability and damage our reputation. In addition, data security events and concerns about privacy abuses by other companies are changing consumer and social expectations for enhanced privacy and data protection. As a result, even the perception of noncompliance, whether or not valid, may damage our reputation. Our businesses collect, host, store, transfer, process, disclose, use, secure and retain and dispose of personal and business information, and collect, hold and transmit client funds, and a security or privacy breach may damage or disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, increase our costs, cause losses and materially adversely affect our results of operations In connection with our business, we collect, host, store, transfer, process, disclose, use, secure and retain and dispose of large amounts of personal and business information about our clients, employees of our clients, our vendors and our employees, contractors and temporary staff, including payroll information, health care information, personal and business financial data, social security numbers and their foreign equivalents, bank account numbers, tax information and other sensitive personal and business information. We also collect and transmit significant amounts of funds from the accounts of our clients to their employees, taxing authorities and others. We are focused on ensuring that we safeguard and protect personal and business information and client funds, and we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly update our systems and processes. Nonetheless, the global environment grows increasingly hostile as attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication, and we are regularly targeted by unauthorized parties using malicious tactics, code and viruses. Certain of these malicious parties may be state-sponsored and supported by significant financial and technological resources. Although this is a global problem, it may affect our businesses more than other businesses because malevolent parties (including our personnel) may focus on the amount and type of personal and business information that our businesses collect, host, store, transfer, process, disclose, use, secure and retain and dispose of, and the client funds that we collect and transmit. We have programs and processes in place to prevent, detect and respond to data or cyber security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, are increasingly more complex and sophisticated and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable or fail to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate or timely preventive or responsive measures. Hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties, or are required by third parties such as foreign governments to install on our systems, may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could (or, in respect of third party software, may be designed to) compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of data or our systems. Unauthorized parties also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other methods of deceiving these third parties or our personnel, including phishing and other social engineering techniques whereby attackers use end-user behaviors to distribute computer viruses and malware into our systems. As these threats continue to evolve and increase, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls and to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. In addition, while our operating environments are designed to safeguard and protect personal and business information, we may not have the ability to monitor the implementation or effectiveness of any safeguards by our clients, vendors or partners and, in any event, third parties may be able to circumvent those security measures. Information obtained by malevolent parties resulting from successful attacks against our clients, vendors, partners or other third parties may, in turn, be used to attack our information technology systems. Any cyberattack, unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service, corruption of data, theft of non-public or other sensitive information, or similar act by a malevolent party (including our personnel), or inadvertent acts or inactions by our vendors, partners or personnel, could result in the loss, disclosure or misuse of confidential personal or business information or the theft of client funds, and could have a materially adverse effect on our business or results of operations or that of our clients, result in liability, litigation, regulatory investigations and sanctions or a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients, or cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider. As the global environment grows increasingly hostile, the security of our operating environment is ever more important to our clients and potential clients. As a result, the breach or perceived breach of our security systems could result in a loss of confidence by our clients or potential clients and cause them to choose another service provider, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the data or cyber security incidents that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, a data or cyber security incident could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. While ADP maintains insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address losses or claims that may arise in connection with certain aspects of data and cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of data and cyber risk. Our systems, applications, solutions and services may be subject to disruptions that could have a materially adverse effect on our business and reputation Many of our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions. We rely heavily on our payroll, financial, accounting, and other data processing systems. We need to properly manage our systems, applications and solutions, and any upgrades, enhancements and expansions we may undertake from time to time, in order to ensure they properly support our businesses. If any of these systems, applications or solutions fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, whether due to malevolent acts, errors, defects or any other factor(s), we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, loss of clients, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. We have disaster recovery, business continuity, and crisis management plans and procedures designed to protect our businesses against a multitude of events, including natural disasters, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures, or similar events. Despite our preparations, our plans and procedures may not be successful in preventing or mitigating the loss of client data, service interruptions, disruptions to our operations, or damage to our important facilities. A disruption of the data centers or cloud-computing services that we utilize could have a materially adverse effect on our business We host our applications and serve our clients with data centers that we operate, and with data centers that are operated, and cloud-computing services that are provided, by third-party vendors. If any of these data centers or cloud-computing services fails, becomes disabled or is disrupted, even for a limited period of time, our businesses could be disrupted and we could suffer financial loss, liability to clients, loss of clients, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. In addition, our third-party vendors may cease providing data center facilities or cloud-computing services, elect to not renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, breach their agreements with us or fail to satisfy our expectations, which could disrupt our operations and require us to incur costs which could materially adversely affect our results of operation or financial condition. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, it could materially adversely affect our business and our brand Our ability to compete and our success depend, in part, upon our intellectual property. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, vendors, partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. We may need to devote significant resources, including cybersecurity resources, to monitoring our intellectual property rights. In addition, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate or ineffective, or may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. Our intellectual property could be wrongfully acquired as a result of a cyber-attack or other wrongful conduct by third parties or our personnel. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights, which may be successful. We may be sued by third parties for infringement of their proprietary rights, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations There is considerable intellectual property development activity in our industry. Third parties, including our competitors, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our products or services and may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We may be found to be infringing upon such rights, even if we are unaware of their intellectual property rights. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us or if we decide to settle, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, obtain licenses, modify applications, prevent us from offering our services, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers, vendors or partners in connection with any such claim or litigation. Even if we were to prevail in such a dispute, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming. If we fail to upgrade, enhance and expand our technology and services to meet client needs and preferences, the demand for our solutions and services may materially diminish Our businesses operate in industries that are subject to rapid technological advances and changing client needs and preferences. In order to remain competitive and responsive to client demands, we continually upgrade, enhance, and expand our technology, solutions and services. If we fail to respond successfully to technology challenges and client needs and preferences, the demand for our solutions and services may diminish. In addition, investment in product development often involves a long return on investment cycle. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in product development. We must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our development efforts before knowing to what extent our investments will result in products the market will accept. In addition, our business could be adversely affected in periods surrounding our new product introductions if customers delay purchasing decisions to evaluate the new product offerings. Furthermore, we may not execute successfully on our product development strategy, including because of challenges with regard to product planning and timing and technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion. We may not realize or sustain the expected benefits from our business transformation initiatives, and these efforts could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations and competitive position We have been and will be undertaking certain transformation initiatives, which are designed to streamline our organization, extend our world-class distribution and strengthen our talent and culture, while supporting our revenue growth, margin improvement and productivity. If we do not successfully manage and execute these initiatives, or if they are inadequate or ineffective, we may fail to meet our financial goals and achieve anticipated benefits, improvements may be delayed, not sustained or not realized and our business, operations and competitive position could be adversely affected. These initiatives, or our failure to successfully manage them, could result in unintended consequences or unforeseen costs, including distraction of our management and employees, attrition, inability to attract or retain key personnel, and reduced employee productivity, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A major natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or have other adverse consequences Our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to capital markets and borrowing costs may be adversely affected by a major natural disaster or catastrophic event, including civil unrest, geopolitical instability, war, terrorist attack, or pandemics or other public health emergencies such as the recent COVID-19 outbreak, and measures taken in response thereto. The COVID-19 outbreak has created, and such other events may create, significant volatility and uncertainty and economic and financial market disruption. The extent of any such impact depends on developments which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the duration and scope of the event; the governmental and business actions taken in response thereto; actions taken by the Company in response thereto and the related costs; the impact on economic activity and employment levels; the effect on our clients, prospects, suppliers and partners; our ability to sell and provide our solutions and services, including due to travel restrictions, business and facility closures, and employee remote working arrangements; the ability of our clients or prospects to pay for our services and solutions; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. In addition, clients or prospects may delay decision making, demand pricing and other concessions, reduce the value or duration of their orders, delay planned work or seek to terminate existing agreements. Our business is also impacted by employment levels across our clients, as we have varied contracts throughout our business that blend base fees and per-employee fees. To date, the COVID-19 outbreak has had a significant impact on our clients and, as a result, our revenue and new business bookings have been and, we expect, will continue to be negatively impacted. Our bookings have also been adversely affected by the impact of the outbreak on the buying behavior of our clients and prospects, coupled with the inability of our sales force to engage with clients and prospects on an in-person basis and instead primarily leveraging virtual interactions. Political and economic factors may materially adversely affect our business and financial results Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and volatility. When there is a slowdown in the economy, employment levels and interest rates may decrease with a corresponding impact on our businesses. Clients may react to worsening conditions by reducing their spending on HCM services or renegotiating their contracts with us, which may adversely affect our business and financial results. We invest our funds held for clients in liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, money market securities, and other cash equivalents. Nevertheless, such investments are subject to general market, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated, individually or together, during periods of unusual financial market volatility. In addition, as part of our client funds investment strategy, we extend the maturities of our investment portfolio for client funds and utilize short-term financing arrangements to satisfy our short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. In order to satisfy these short-term funding requirements, we maintain access to various sources of liquidity, including borrowings under our commercial paper program and our committed credit facilities, our ability to execute reverse repurchase transactions and corporate cash balances. A reduction in the availability of any such financing during periods of disruption in the financial markets or otherwise may increase our borrowing costs and/or require us to sell available-for-sale securities in our funds held for clients to satisfy our short-term funding requirements. When there is a reduction in employment levels due to a slowdown in the economy, the Company may experience a decline in client fund obligations and may also sell available-for-sale securities in our funds held for clients in order to reduce the size of the funds held for clients to correspond to client fund obligations. A sale of such available-for-sale securities may result in the recognition of losses and reduce the interest income earned on funds held for clients, either or both of which may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We are dependent upon various large banks to execute electronic payments and wire transfers as part of our client payroll, tax and other money movement services. While we have contingency plans in place for bank failures, a systemic shutdown of the banking industry would impede our ability to process funds on behalf of our payroll, tax and other money movement services clients and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity. We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income outside of the United States and, as a result, we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of actions by activist stockholders or others We may be subject to actions or proposals from activist stockholders or others that may not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders. Responding to such actions could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our business and operations, and divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of our business strategies. Activist stockholders may create perceived uncertainties as to the future direction of our business or strategy, which may be exploited by our competitors and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, potential customers and business partners and may affect our relationships with current customers, vendors, investors and other third parties. In addition, actions of activist stockholders may cause periods of fluctuation in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. Change in our credit ratings could adversely impact our operations and lower our profitability The major credit rating agencies periodically evaluate our creditworthiness and have given us strong, investment-grade long-term debt ratings and high commercial paper ratings. Failure to maintain high credit ratings on long-term and short-term debt could increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to obtain intra-day borrowing required by our Employer Services business, and adversely impact our results of operations. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel Our ability to grow and provide our clients with competitive services is partially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly motivated people with the skills to serve our clients. Competition for skilled employees in the outsourcing and other markets in which we operate is intense and, if we are unable to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated personnel, results of our operations may suffer. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties ADP owns 7 of its processing/print centers, and 15 other operational offices, sales offices, and its corporate headquarters in Roseland, New Jersey, which aggregate approximately 3,302,645 square feet. None of ADP's owned facilities is subject to any material encumbrances. ADP leases space for some of its processing centers, other operational offices, and sales offices. All of these leases, which aggregate approximately 6,266,759 square feet worldwide, expire at various times up to the year 2030. ADP believes its facilities are currently adequate for their intended purposes and are adequately maintained. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, ADP is subject to various claims and litigation. While the outcome of any litigation is inherently unpredictable, ADP believes that it has valid defenses with respect to the legal matters pending against it and that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a materially adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market for Registrant's Common Equity The principal market for the Companys common stock is the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ADP. As of June 30, 2020 , there were 36,378 holders of record of the Companys common stock. As of such date, 1,017,256 additional holders held their common stock in street name. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of the Publicly Announced Common Stock Repurchase Plan (2) Maximum Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that may yet be Purchased under the Common Stock Repurchase Plan (2) April 1, 2020 to April 30, 2020 2,377 $146.69 4,463,426,975 May 1, 2020 to May 31, 2020 205 $146.49 4,463,426,975 June 1, 2020 to June 30, 2020 939 $148.89 4,463,426,975 Total 3,521 (1) Pursuant to the terms of the Companys restricted stock program, the Company purchased 3,521 shares at the then market value of the shares in connection with the exercise by employees under such program to satisfy certain tax withholding requirements through the delivery of shares to the Company instead of cash. (2) The Company received the Board of Directors' approval to repurchase shares of the Company's common stock as follows: Date of Approval November 2019 $5 billion There is no expiration date for the common stock repurchase plan. For equity compensation plan information, please refer to Item 12 in Part III of this Annual Report or Form 10-K. Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative return on the Companys common stock for the most recent five years with the cumulative return on the S&P 500 Index and the Peer Group Index, (a) assuming an initial investment of $100 on June 30, 2015, with all dividends reinvested. The stock price performance shown on this graph may not be indicative of future performance. (a) We use the S&P 500 Information Technology Index as our Peer Group Index. The S&P 500 Information Technology Index is a broad index that includes the Company and several competitors. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information set forth below should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (Dollars and shares in millions, except per share amounts) Years ended June 30, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Total revenues* $ 14,589.8 $ 14,110.2 $ 13,274.2 $ 12,328.6 $ 11,632.1 Total costs of revenues* $ 8,445.1 $ 8,021.6 $ 7,757.4 $ 7,201.1 $ 6,840.4 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes $ 3,182.6 $ 3,005.6 $ 2,282.6 $ 2,616.9 $ 2,234.7 Net earnings from continuing operations $ 2,466.5 $ 2,292.8 $ 1,884.9 $ 1,787.8 $ 1,493.4 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations $ 5.73 $ 5.27 $ 4.28 $ 3.99 $ 3.27 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $ 5.70 $ 5.24 $ 4.25 $ 3.97 $ 3.25 Basic weighted average shares outstanding 430.8 435.0 440.6 447.8 457.0 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding 432.7 437.6 443.3 450.3 459.1 Cash dividends declared per share $ 3.52 $ 3.06 $ 2.52 $ 2.24 $ 2.08 At year end: Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of continuing operations $ 1,922.1 $ 2,221.1 $ 2,180.5 $ 2,791.2 $ 3,222.4 Total assets $ 39,165.5 $ 41,887.7 $ 38,849.1 $ 38,886.8 $ 43,670.0 Obligations under reverse repurchase agreements $ 13.6 $ 262.0 $ $ $ Long-term debt $ 1,002.8 $ 2,002.2 $ 2,002.4 $ 2,002.4 $ 2,007.7 Stockholders equity $ 5,752.2 $ 5,399.9 $ 4,735.9 $ 4,984.1 $ 4,481.6 *Prior period total revenues and total costs of revenue s reflect the impact of the revision to PEO revenues for comparability. Refer to Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on this revision. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts) Prior period total revenues and total costs of revenues reflect the impact of the revision to PEO revenues for comparability. Refer to Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on this revision. The following section discusses our year ended June 30, 2020 (fiscal 2020), as compared to year ended June 30, 2019 (fiscal 2019). A detailed review of our fiscal 2019 performance compared to our fiscal 2018 performance is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document and other written or oral statements made from time to time by ADP may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words like expects, assumes, projects, anticipates, estimates, we believe, could is designed to and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on managements expectations and assumptions and depend upon or refer to future events or conditions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements or that could contribute to such difference include: ADP's success in obtaining, and retaining clients, and selling additional services to clients; the pricing of products and services; the success of our new solutions; compliance with existing or new legislation or regulations; changes in, or interpretations of, existing legislation or regulations; overall market, political and economic conditions, including interest rate and foreign currency trends; competitive conditions; our ability to maintain our current credit ratings and the impact on our funding costs and profitability; security or cyber breaches, fraudulent acts, and system interruptions and failures; employment and wage levels; changes in technology; availability of skilled technical associates; the impact of new acquisitions and divestitures; and the adequacy, effectiveness and success of our business transformation initiatives; and the impact of and uncertainties related to major natural disasters or catastrophic events, including the coronaviru s ( COVID-19 ) pandemic. ADP disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. These risks and uncertainties, along with the risk factors discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors, and in other written or oral statements made from time to time by ADP, should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements contained herein. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES In addition to our U.S. GAAP results, we use adjusted results and other non-GAAP metrics to evaluate our operating performance in the absence of certain items and for planning and forecasting of future periods. Adjusted EBIT, adjusted EBIT margin, adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted earnings per share, adjusted effective tax rate and organic constant currency are all non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to the accompanying financial tables in the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section for a discussion of why ADP believes these measures are important and for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to their comparable GAAP financial measures. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Highlights from the year ended June 30, 2020 include: The global COVID-19 pandemic has continued to evolve and our priority has been and continues to be the safety of our associates and the needs of our clients. In March 2020, we implemented our Business Continuity Plan and took steps to shift over 98% of our workforce to work from home or off-site locations to ensure uninterrupted service to our clients across our solutions. While we are well-prepared to continue operating this way, we are in the early stages of bringing back a small portion of our workforce to the office on a volunteer-only basis. Our sales force will continue to primarily engage with prospects and clients virtually; however, we are beginning to conduct face-to-face meetings in certain geographies to the extent our employees, clients, and prospects are ready to do so. We announced for our employees, excluding corporate officers, a one-time global associate assistance payment of $1,000 (or equivalent, based on the average wage parity in each country) in response to COVID-19, totaling $50.4 million. We are also deeply embedded in our local communities and continue to support COVID-19 relief efforts through financial donations and donations of medical supplies for hospital workers globally. As a leading global provider of cloud-based Human Capital Management (HCM) technology solutions to employers around the world, we have continued to process payroll and tax obligations and provide other HCM services to our clients, despite the unexpected challenges that our clients and their employees around the world are facing. ADP's efforts have been focused on providing information and tools to help clients understand and navigate the governmental relief that has been adopted globally. For example, the federal government in the United States enacted the Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA) and the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. ADP has been working to provide support to all employers on the relief available under both laws. This includes an Employer Preparedness Toolkit that helps explain the federal and state government relief, as well as a website dedicated to providing critical information about the Small Business Administration Paycheck Protection Program (PPP). During the second half of fiscal 2020, we rolled out a range of tools and reports to help our clients through the crisis and prepare for the recovery. We implemented over 1,000 feature changes to our products in response to 2,000 legislative updates in 60 countries, and we also had approximately 400,000 clients run over 2 million PPP reports for total loan values up to $115 billion dollars. Many of those clients have also now run the necessary payroll reports to apply for their loans to be forgiven. As the global economy and landscape continues to evolve for our clients, whether due to legislative changes or other factors, ADP is committed to supporting our clients to help them navigate these challenges. The significant impact the COVID-19 pandemic is having on our clients and the broader economy is in turn having an effect on our reported metrics. Despite the fact that we have seen improvement as countries and states are in various stages of reopening and businesses gradually begin to bring a portion of their workers back, we've seen the impact on our full year fiscal 2020 results. Employer Services New Business Bookings was down 21% for fiscal 2020 as we saw bookings decline significantly and rapidly in mid-March due to the global social distancing guidelines coupled with the delayed decision making of our clients and prospects which continued into the fourth quarter. We also adjusted gross bookings as a result of client delays on implementation and the expectation that fewer client employees would come on board compared to when the business was originally signed. The PEO average number of Worksite Employees increased 4% for fiscal 2020. Our pays per control metric, which represents growth of the employee base for a large portion of our client base, showed a decline in the fourth quarter resulting in annual growth of negative 1.0% for fiscal 2020. In addition, we saw deterioration in Employer Services retention in fiscal 2020 of 20 basis points to 90.5% due to an increase in out-of-business losses. While the challenges presented by COVID-19 may affect the timing of our execution of parts of our strategy, we remain on a transformation journey, and our initiatives are yielding efficiencies and are focused on changing how we work. In fiscal 2020, we executed on our Workforce Optimization program and Procurement Transformation initiatives. For fiscal 2021, we are moving forward with a digital implementation and servicing initiative that leverages many of the capabilities we highlighted at our February 2020 Innovation Day. Despite a challenging end to fiscal 2020, we continued to deliver profit growth during the year ended June 30, 2020. We will continue to monitor macro trends based on externally and internally available data and are using these indicators to drive real-time decisions as we remain committed to our long-term strategy. We have a strong business model, a highly cash generative business with low capital intensity, and offer a suite of products that provide critical support to our clients HCM functions. We generate sufficient free cash flow to satisfy our cash dividend and our modest debt obligations, which enables us to absorb the impact of downturns and remain steadfast in our reinvestments, our longer term strategy, and our commitments to shareholder friendly actions. We are committed to building upon our past successes by investing in our business through enhancements in research and development and by driving meaningful transformation in the way we operate. Our financial condition remains solid at June 30, 2020 and we remain well positioned to support our associates and our clients. RESULTS AND ANALYSIS OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS Total Revenues For the year ended June 30, respectively: Growth: 3% Organic constant currency: 4% Revenues for fiscal 2020 increased due to new business started from New Business Bookings, partially offset by business losses . Our revenue growth includes one percentage point of pressure from foreign currency. Refer to Analysis of Reportable Segments for additional discussion of the increases in revenue for both of our reportable segments, Employer Services and Professional Employer Organization (PEO) Services. Total revenues in fiscal 2020 include interest on funds held for clients of $545.2 million, as compared to $561.9 million in fiscal 2019. The decrease in the consolidated interest earned on funds held for clients resulted from the decrease in our average interest rate earned to 2.1% in fiscal 2020, as compared to 2.2% in fiscal 2019. The decrease is partially offset by an increase in our average client funds balances of 2.1% to $26.0 billion in fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019. Total Expenses Years Ended June 30, 2020 2019 % Change Costs of revenues: Operating expenses $ 7,404.1 $ 7,080.9 5 % Systems development and programming costs 674.1 636.3 6 % Depreciation and amortization 366.9 304.4 21 % Total costs of revenues 8,445.1 8,021.6 5 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 3,003.0 3,064.2 (2) % Interest expense 107.1 129.9 n/m Total expenses $ 11,555.2 $ 11,215.7 3 % n/m - not meaningful Operating expenses increase d as our PEO Services zero-margin benefits pass-through costs increased to $2,907.7 million fr om $2,647.5 million in fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectivel y. Additionally, operating expenses increased due to a change of $59.2 million in our estimated losses related to ADP Indemnity and a one-time global associate assistance payment in response to COVID-19 (associate assistance payment). The increase was partially offset by the impact of foreign currency, reduced incentive compensation costs and reduced costs due to certain cost actions as a result of our transformation initiatives including procurement transformation initiatives in fiscal 2020. Systems development and programming costs increased for fiscal 2020 due to increased investments and costs to develop, support, and maintain our products, partially offset by capitalization of costs related to our strategic projects, including our next gen platforms. Depreciation and amortization expense increased related to the amortization of our acquisitions of intangibles and internally developed software. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased for fiscal 2020 due to reduced in centive compensation costs, broad-based efficiencies as a result of our transformation initiatives including procurement transformation initiatives, a decrease in net charges related to our transformation initiatives, reduced facilities costs as a result of COVID-19, a nd impact of foreign currency. The decrease was partially offset by increased selling expenses, an increase in our allowance for doubtful acco unts of $26.0 million as a result of an increase in estimated credit losses related to the impact of COVID-19 on our clients (increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts), severance cost as a result of COVID-19 of $25.4 million, a legal settlement accrual of $25.0 million, and an associate assistance payment. Other Income, net (In millions) Years ended June 30, 2020 2019 $ Change Interest income on corporate funds $ (84.5) $ (97.6) $ (13.1) Realized (gains) / losses on available-for-sale securities, net (12.9) 0.9 13.8 Impairment of assets 29.9 12.1 (17.8) Gain on sale of assets (5.8) (4.1) 1.7 Gain on sale of investment (0.2) (15.7) (15.5) Non-service components of pension (income)/expense, net (74.5) (6.7) 67.8 Other income, net $ (148.0) $ (111.1) $ 36.9 Other income, net, increased $36.9 million in fiscal 2020, as compared to fiscal 2019 due to the change in non-service components of pension (income)/expense, net, and the items described below. See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on non-service components of pension (income)/expense, net. In fiscal 2020, the Company recorded impairment charges of $29.9 million , which is comprised of $25.3 million as a r esult of recognizing certain owned facilities at fair value given intent to sell and accordingly classified as held for sale and vacating certain leased locations early and recorded total impairment charges of $4.6 million to operating right-of-use assets and certain related fixed assets associated with the vacated locations. In fiscal 2019, the Company wrote down $12.1 million of internally developed software which was determined to have no future use due to redundant software identified as part of a recent acquisition. In fiscal 2019, the Company recognized a gain of $15.7 million in relation to the sale of an investment held at cost acquired in prior years and subsequently sold during fiscal 2019. Earnings before Income Taxes ("EBIT") For the year ended June 30: Growth: 6% 50bps Earnings before income taxes increased in fiscal 2020 due to t he increases in revenues partially offset by the increases in expenses discussed above. Overall margin increased in fiscal 2020 as a result of our continued successful execution of our broad-based transformation initiatives including our procurement transformation initiatives as well as operating efficiencies. In addition, our margin improvement was aided by reduced incentive compensation costs, lower transformation initiative related charges of $60.9 million, and reduced facilities costs as result of COVID-19. These were partially offset by incremental pressure from growth in our zero-margin benefits pass-throughs, an increase in selling expenses, an increase in amortization expense, a change in our estimated losses related to ADP Indemnity, an associate assistance payment, an increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts, severance costs as a result of COVID-19, and a legal settlement accrual. Adjusted EBIT For the year ended June 30: Growth: 6% 60bps Adjusted EBIT excludes certain interest amounts, net charges related to our transformation initiatives, the impact of the severance charges related to COVID-19, accrual for legal settlement, and the gain on sale of assets in the respective periods. For fiscal 2020, adjusted EBIT increased due to increases in revenues offset by the increases in ex penses discussed abov e. Our adjusted EBIT margin reflects changes described above in our EBIT margin excluding the net charges noted above. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate in fiscal 2020 and 2019 was 22.5% and 23.7%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the release of a valuation allowance related to foreign tax credit carryforwards, a reduction in the operating tax rate due to the mix between domestic and foreign earnings, the benefit of a foreign tax law change and lower reserves for uncertain tax positions during fiscal 2020 partially offset by favorable adjustments to prior year tax liabilities during fiscal 2019. Refer t o Note 11, Income Taxes, within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Adjusted Provision for Income Taxe s The adjusted effective tax rate in fiscal 2020 and 2019 was 22.6% and 23.8%, respectively. The drivers of the adjusted effective tax rate are the same as the drivers of the effective tax rate discussed above. Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings per Share For the year ended June 30: Growth: 8% 9% For fiscal 2020, the net earnings reflect the changes described above in our earnings before income taxes and our effective tax rate. For fiscal 2020, diluted EPS increased as a result of an increase in net ear nings and the impact of fewer shares outstanding, resulting from the repurchase of approximate ly 6.2 million sha res in fiscal 2020 and 6.5 million shares in fiscal 2019, partially offset by the issuances of shares under our employee benefit plans. Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share For the year ended June 30: Growth: 7% 9% For fiscal 2020, adjusted net earnings reflect the changes described above in our adjusted EBIT and our adjusted effective tax rate. For fiscal 2020, our adjusted diluted EPS reflects the changes described above in our adjusted net earnings and shares outstanding. ANALYSIS OF REPORTABLE SEGMENTS Revenues Years Ended June 30, % Change 2020 2019 As Reported Organic Constant Currency Employer Services $ 10,086.6 $ 9,942.8 1 % 2 % PEO Services 4,511.5 4,177.7 8 % 8 % Other (8.3) (10.3) n/m n/m $ 14,589.8 $ 14,110.2 3 % 4 % Earnings before Income Taxes Years Ended June 30, % Change 2020 2019 As Reported Employer Services $ 3,063.0 $ 2,960.9 3 % PEO Services 605.5 616.2 (2) % Other (485.9) (571.5) n/m $ 3,182.6 $ 3,005.6 6 % n/m - not meaningful Employer Services Revenues Revenues increase d in fiscal 2020 due to new business started from New Business Bookings, partially offset by business losses and a decrease in interest earned on funds held for clients. Our revenue growth includes one percentage point of pressure from foreign currency. Our revenue growth was also partially offset by a decrease in the number of employees on our clients' payrolls as our pays per control decreased 1.0% in fiscal 2020, as com pared to fiscal 2019. Our pays per control metric measures the number of employees on our clients' payrolls as measured on a same-store-sales basis utilizing a representative subset of payrolls ranging from small to large businesses that are reflective of a broad range of U.S. geographic regions. In addition, the Employer Services client revenue retention rate for fis cal 2020 declined 20 basis points to 90.5% as compared to our rate for fiscal 2019, driven by an increase in out-of-business losses. Earnings before Income Taxes Employer Services earnings before income taxes increase d in fiscal 2020 due to increased revenues discussed above and partially offset by increased expenses due to an increase in selling expenses, an increase in amortization expense, and an increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts. These increases in expenses were partially offset by reduced incentive compensation costs, impact from foreign currency and operating efficiencies as a result of our transformation initiatives including our procurement transformation initiatives. For the year ended June 30, respectively: Growth: 60bps Employer Services' overall margin increase d for fiscal 2020 as a result of the continued successful execution of our broad-based transformation initiatives including our procurement transformation initiatives, as well as operating efficiencies and reduced incentive compensation costs. This increase was partially offset by an increase in selling expenses, amortization expense and our allowance for doubtful accounts. PEO Services Revenues PEO Revenues Years Ended Change June 30, 2020 2019 $ % PEO Services' revenues $ 4,511.5 $ 4,177.7 $ 333.8 8 % Less: PEO zero-margin benefits pass-throughs 2,907.7 2,647.5 260.2 10 % PEO Services' revenues excluding zero-margin benefits pass-throughs $ 1,603.8 $ 1,530.2 $ 73.6 5 % PEO Services' revenues increased 8% in fiscal 2020 due to a 4% increase in the av erage number of Worksite Employees in fiscal 2020 d riven by an increase in the number of new PEO Services clients and growth in our existing clients. Additionally, PEO Services' revenues, excluding zero-margin benefits pass-through costs, increased 5% in fiscal 2020 and includes pressure from lower workers compensation and State Unemployment Insurance (SUI) costs and related pricing. Earnings before Income Taxes PEO Services earnings before income taxes decreased 2% in fiscal 2020 due to the increase in expenses partially offset by the increase in revenues discussed above. The increase in expenses was due to the increase in zero-margin benefits pass-through costs of $260.2 million describe d abov e and a change of $59.2 million in our estimated losses related to ADP Indemnity in fiscal 2020, as compared to fiscal 2019. For the year ended June 30, respectively: Growth: 130bps PEO Services' overall margin decreased for fiscal 2020 due to a change of $59.2 million in our estimated losses related to ADP Indemnity in fisc al 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019. ADP Indemnity provides workers compensation and employers liability deductible reimbursement insurance protection for PEO Services worksite employees up to $1 million per occurrence. PEO Services has secured a workers compensation and employers liability insurance policy that has a $1 million per occurrence retention and, in fiscal years 2012 and prior, aggregate stop loss insurance that covers any aggregate losses within the $1 million retention that collectively exceed a certain level, from an admitted and licensed insurance company of AIG. We utilize historical loss experience and actuarial judgment to determine the estimated claim liability, and changes in estimated ultimate incurred losses are included in the PEO segment. ADP Indemnity recorded a pre-tax loss of approximately $20 million in fiscal 2020 and a pre-tax benefit of approximately $39 million in fiscal 2019, which were primarily a result of changes in our estimated actuarial losses. Beginning in fiscal year 2013, ADP Indemnity paid premiums to enter into reinsurance arrangements with ACE American Insurance Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chubb Limited, to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity during these policy years. Each of these reinsurance arrangements limits our overall exposure incurred up to a certain limit. We believe the likelihood of ultimate losses exceeding this limit is remote . During fiscal 2020, ADP Indemnity paid a premium of $215 million to enter into a reinsurance arrangement with Chubb Limited to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for the fiscal 2020 policy year to $1 million per occurrence related to the workers' compensation and employer's liability deductible reimbursement insurance protection for PEO Services' worksite employees. ADP Indemnity paid a premium of $240 million in July 2020 to enter into a reinsurance agreement with Chubb to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for fiscal 2021 policy year on terms substantially similar to the fiscal 2020 reinsurance policy. Other The primary components of Other are certain corporate overhead charges and expenses that have not been allocated to the reportable segments, including corporate functions, costs related to our transformation office, an associate assistance payment, a legal settlement accrual, non-recurring gains and losses, the elimination of intercompany transactions, and other interest expense. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our GAAP results, we use the adjusted results and other non-GAAP metrics set forth in the table below to evaluate our operating performance in the absence of certain items and for planning and forecasting of future periods: Adjusted Financial Measures U.S. GAAP Measures Adjusted EBIT Net earnings Adjusted provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes Adjusted net earnings Net earnings Adjusted diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Adjusted effective tax rate Effective tax rate Organic constant currency Revenues We believe that the exclusion of the identified items helps us reflect the fundamentals of our underlying business model and analyze results against our expectations and against prior period, and to plan for future periods by focusing on our underlying operations. We believe that the adjusted results provide relevant and useful information for investors because it allows investors to view performance in a manner similar to the method used by management and improves their ability to understand and assess our operating performance. The nature of these exclusions is for specific items that are not fundamental to our underlying business operations. Since these adjusted financial measures and other non-GAAP metrics are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, they should not be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or superior to their corresponding U.S. GAAP measures, and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures at other companies. Years Ended June 30, % Change 2020 2019 As Reported Net earnings $ 2,466.5 $ 2,292.8 8 % Adjustments: Provision for income taxes 716.1 712.8 All other interest expense (a) 59.2 59.9 All other interest income (a) (20.5) (32.4) Gain on sale of assets (0.2) (15.7) Transformation initiatives (b) 77.4 138.3 COVID-19 related charges (c) 25.4 Legal settlement (d) 25.0 Adjusted EBIT $ 3,348.9 $ 3,155.7 6 % Adjusted EBIT Margin 23.0 % 22.4 % Provision for income taxes $ 716.1 $ 712.8 % Adjustments: Gain on sale of assets (e) (0.1) (3.9) Transformation initiatives (e) 19.2 34.5 COVID-19 related charges (e) 6.3 Legal settlement (e) 6.2 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (f) 0.5 Adjusted provision for income taxes $ 747.7 $ 743.9 1 % Adjusted effective tax rate (g) 22.6 % 23.8 % Net earnings $ 2,466.5 $ 2,292.8 8 % Adjustments: Gain on sale of assets (0.2) (15.7) Income tax provision on gain on sale of assets (e) 0.1 3.9 Transformation initiatives (b) 77.4 138.3 Income tax benefit for transformation initiatives (e) (19.2) (34.5) COVID-19 related charges (c) 25.4 Income tax benefit for COVID-19 related charges (e) (6.3) Legal settlement (d) 25.0 Income tax benefit for legal settlement (e) (6.2) Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (f) (0.5) Adjusted net earnings $ 2,562.5 $ 2,384.3 7 % Diluted EPS $ 5.70 $ 5.24 9 % Adjustments: Gain on sale of assets (e) (0.03) Transformation initiatives (b) (e) 0.13 0.24 COVID-19 related charges (c) (e) 0.04 Legal settlement (d) (e) 0.04 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (f) Adjusted diluted EPS $ 5.92 $ 5.45 9 % (a) We include the interest income earned on investments associated with our client funds extended investment strategy and interest expense on borrowings related to our client funds extended investment strategy as we believe these amounts to be fundamental to the underlying operations of our business model. The adjustments in the table above represent the interest income and interest expense that are not related to our client funds extended investment strategy and are labeled as All other interest expense and All other interest income. (b) In fiscal 2020, transformation initiatives include: (i) charges of $29.9 million related to impairment charges as a result of recognizing certain owned facilities at fair value given intent to sell and accordingly classified as held for sale and impairment charges of operating right-of-use assets and certain related fixed assets associated with the vacating of certain leased locations; (ii) charges of $29.1 million related to severance; (iii) charges of $28.5 million related to other transformation initiatives; all of which were partially offset by net reversals of charges related to Voluntary Early Retirement Program (VERP) and Service Alignment Initiative (SAI) of $10.1 million. Unlike certain other severance charges in prior periods that are not included as an adjustment to get to adjusted results, these specific charges relate to actions that are part of our broad-based, company-wide transformation initiatives. (c) Represents severance charges related to the impact of COVID-19 pandemic. Unlike other severance charges in prior periods that are not included as an adjustment to get to adjusted results, these specific charges relate to actions that are part of our broad-based, company-wide initiatives to address excess capacity across our business and functions due to the COVID-19 pandemic. (d) Represents a legal settlement accrual related to the Illinois Biometric Privacy Act matter. Refer to Note 12 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. (e) The income tax provision/(benefit) was calculated based on the annualized marginal rate in effect during the quarter of the adjustment. (f) There was no impact from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in fiscal 2020. (g) The Adjusted effective tax rate is calculated as our Adjusted provision for income taxes divided by the sum of our Adjusted net earnings plus our Adjusted provision for income taxes. The following table reconciles our reported growth rates to the non-GAAP measure of organic constant currency, which excludes the impact of acquisitions, the impact of dispositions, and the impact of foreign currency. The impact of acquisitions and dispositions is calculated by excluding the current year revenues of acquisitions until the one-year anniversary of the transaction and by excluding the prior year revenues of divestitures for the one-year period preceding the transaction. The impact of foreign currency is determined by calculating the current year result using foreign exchange rates consistent with the prior year. The PEO segment is not impacted by acquisitions, dispositions or foreign currency. Year Ended June 30, 2020 Consolidated revenue growth as reported 3 % Adjustments: Impact of acquisitions % Impact of foreign currency 1 % Consolidated revenue growth, organic constant currency 4 % Employer Services revenue growth as reported 1 % Adjustments: Impact of acquisitions % Impact of foreign currency 1 % Employer Services revenue growth, organic constant currency 2 % FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of June 30, 2020, cash and cash equivalent s were $1.9 billion, which were primarily invested in time deposits and money market funds. For corporate liquidity, we expect existing cash, cash equivalents, long-term marketable securities, cash flow from operations together with our $9.7 billion of co mmitted credit facilities and our ability to access both long-term and short-term debt financing from the capital markets will be adequate to meet our operating, investing, and financing activities such as regular quarterly dividends, share repurchases, and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. Our financial condition remains solid at June 30, 2020 and have sufficient liquidity as note above; how ever, given the uncertainty in the rapidly changing market and economic conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic, we will continue to evaluate the nature and extent of the impact to our financial condition and liquidity. For client funds liquidity, we have the ability to borrow through our financing arrangements under our U.S. short-term commercial paper program and our U.S., Canadian and United Kingdom short-term reverse repurchase agreements, together with our $9.7 billion of committed credit facilities and our ability to use corporate liquidity when necessary to meet short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. Please see