ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion in our MD&A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q contains trend analyses and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies, including those discussed in Strategy and Overview of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 - Business Outlook below, anticipated future net revenue, future GAAP and non-GAAP earnings per share, operating margin, operating expenses, billings, other future financial results (by product type and geography) and subscriptions, the effectiveness of our efforts to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, our expectations regarding the continued transition of our business model, our ability to increase our subscription base, expected market trends, including the growth of cloud, mobile and social computing, the effect of unemployment and availability of credit, the effects of weak global economic conditions, the effects of revenue recognition, our backlog, expected trends in certain financial metrics, including expenses, the impact of acquisitions and investment activities, expectations regarding our cash needs, the effects of fluctuations in exchange rates and our hedging activities on our financial results, our abilities to successfully expand adoption of our products, our ability to gain market acceptance of new businesses and sales initiatives, our ability to successfully increase sales of product suites as part of our overall sales strategy, and the impact of economic volatility and geopolitical activities in certain countries, particularly emerging economy countries, and the resulting effect on our financial results. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product capability and acceptance, continuation of our stock repurchase program, statements regarding our liquidity and short-term and long-term cash requirements, as well as statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as may, believe, could, anticipate, would, might, plan, expect, and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Form 10-Q and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of the factors set forth below in Part II, Item 1A , Risk Factors , and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made, except as required by law. Note: A glossary of terms used in this Form 10-Q appears at the end of this Item 2. Strategy Autodesks vision is to help people imagine, design, and create a better world. We do this by developing software and services for the worlds designers, architects, engineers, digital artists, professionals, and non-professionals alikethe people who imagine, design, and create the world's products, buildings, infrastructure, films, and games. Autodesk serves professional customers in three primary markets: architecture, engineering, and construction; manufacturing; and digital media and entertainment. Our goal is to provide our customers with the worlds most innovative, and engaging design software and services. Our product and services portfolio allows our customers to digitally visualize, simulate, and analyze their projects, helping them to better understand the consequences of their design decisions; save time, money, and resources; and become more innovative. Autodesk was founded during the platform transition from mainframes and engineering workstations to personal computers. We developed and sustained a compelling value proposition based upon desktop software for the personal computer. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry over 30 years ago, we believe our industry is undergoing a similar transition from the personal computer to cloud, social, and mobile computing. To address this transition we have accelerated our move to the cloud and mobile devices and are offering more flexible licensing. For example, Autodesk BIM 360, PLM 360, Fusion 360, and AutoCAD360 Pro, a few of our cloud based offerings, provide tools, including social and mobile capabilities, to help streamline design, collaboration, and data management processes. We believe that customer adoption of these new offerings will continue to grow as customers across a range of industries begin to take advantage of the scalable computing power and flexibility provided through these new services. Our strategy is to lead our customers and the industries they serve to the new cloud and mobile platforms. This entails both a technological shift and a business model shift. During fiscal year 2014, we announced term-based license offerings, including term-based desktop subscriptions, for certain products. These offerings are designed to give our customers even more flexibility with how they use our products and service offerings and to address new types of customers such as project-based users and small businesses. As part of this transition, we discontinued upgrades effective March 6, 2015. On February 4, 2015, we also announced that new commercial seats of most standalone software products will be available only by desktop 27 subscription beginning February 1, 2016. Additionally, we plan to discontinue selling new perpetual licenses for suites during fiscal 2017. Over the next three years, we expect to increase our subscription base and customer value, which we believe will help drive billings growth. During the transition, revenue, gross margin, operating margin, EPS, deferred revenue, and cash flow from operations will be impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than up front and as new offerings bring a wider variety of price points. At April 30, 2015 and 2014 , our total subscriptions were 2.33 million and 1.94 million , respectively. Subscription growth during fiscal 2015 was led by maintenance subscriptions, which benefited from promotional activity driving upgrades and maintenance renewals. More recently in the current period, approximately half of the subscription additions were from new subscription types such as desktop, enterprise flexible license, and cloud subscription. For the past three years, suites have been an important growth area to our overall strategy. As our customers in all industries adopt our design suites, we believe they will experience an increase in their productivity and the value of their design data. For the three months ended April 30, 2015 , revenue from suites increased 14% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. As a percentage of revenue, suites consisted of 37% of our net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to 35% of our net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . Another key element of our growth strategy is increasing our global penetration. Much of the growth in the worlds construction and manufacturing is happening in emerging economies. Further, emerging economies face many of the challenges that our design technology can help address, including infrastructure build-out and innovative design and manufacturing. Revenue from emerging countries increased 17% during the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, and represented 14% and 13% of our total revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. While we continue to believe there are long-term growth opportunities in emerging economies, conducting business in these countries presents significant challenges, including economic volatility, geopolitical risk, local competition, limited intellectual property protection, poorly developed business infrastructure, scarcity of talent, software piracy, and different purchase patterns as compared to the developed world. Today, complex challenges such as globalization, urbanization, and sustainable design are driving our customers to new levels of performance and competitiveness, and we are committed to helping them address those challenges and take advantage of new opportunities. To achieve these goals, we are capitalizing on two of our strongest competitive advantages: our ability to bring advanced technology to mainstream markets, and the breadth and depth of our product portfolio. We bring powerful new design capabilities to volume markets. Our products are designed to be easy-to-learn and use, and to provide customers with a low cost of deployment, a low total cost of access to our software offerings, and a rapid return on investment. In addition, our software architecture allows for extensibility and integration with other products. The breadth of our technology and product line gives us a unique competitive advantage, because it allows our customers to address a wide variety of problems in ways that transcend industry and disciplinary boundaries. This is particularly important in helping our customers address the complex challenges mentioned above. We also believe that our technological leadership and global brand recognition have positioned us well for long-term growth and industry leadership. In addition to the competitive advantages afforded by our technology, our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, educators, and students is a key competitive advantage. This network of partners and relationships provides us with a broad and deep reach into volume markets around the world. Our distributor and reseller network is extensive and provides our customers with the resources to purchase, deploy, learn, and support our products quickly and easily. We have a significant number of registered third-party developers who create products that work well with our products and extend them for a variety of specialized applications. Autodesk is committed to helping fuel a lifelong passion for design in students of all ages. In fiscal 2014, we initiated a new program offering free educational licenses of Autodesk software worldwide to students, educators, and educational institutions. Targeting both the secondary and postsecondary school markets, we collaborate with educators, institutions and partners that encourage design learning and further Science, Technology, Engineering, Digital Arts, and Math (STEAM) education initiatives. Our intention is to make Autodesk software the ubiquitous design software of choice for those poised to become the next generation of professional users. 28 Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology, and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and may, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology, and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. Our strategy depends upon a number of assumptions to successfully make the transition toward new cloud and mobile platforms, including the related technology and business model shifts; making our technology available to mainstream markets; leveraging our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, and students; improving the performance and functionality of our products; and adequately protecting our intellectual property. If the outcome of any of these assumptions differs from our expectations, we may not be able to implement our strategy, which could potentially adversely affect our business. For further discussion regarding these and related risks, see Part II , Item 1A , Risk Factors . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on amounts reported in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We regularly reevaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2015 . In addition, we highlighted those policies that involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity with further discussion in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K. We believe these policies are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Overview of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 As a % of Net Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2014 As a % of Net Revenue Net Revenue $ 646.5 100 % $ 592.5 100 % Cost of revenue 91.8 14 % 78.7 13 % Gross Profit 554.7 86 % 513.8 87 % Operating expenses 533.2 82 % 471.6 80 % Income from Operations $ 21.5 3 % $ 42.2 7 % During the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, net revenue increased 9% and gross profit increased 8% , while income from operations decreased 49% . Contributing to the year-over-year decrease in income from operations during the three months ended April 30, 2015 was an increase in operating expenses, partially offset by increases in both subscription revenue and license and other revenue. Our business experienced year-over-year growth in our Architecture, Engineering, and Construction ("AEC"), Manufacturing ("MFG"), and Media and Entertainment ("M&E") segments, many of our major products, particularly our AEC suites, and the America and Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") geographic areas. Additionally, our results benefited from the inclusion of a full quarter of Delcam operating results during the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to one month of Delcam operating results during the three months ended April 30, 2014 . These areas of growth contributed to the year over year increase in both subscription and license and other revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2015 . Income from operations during the three months ended April 30, 2015 was negatively impacted by increased spend primarily related to higher employee-related costs. The reasons for these changes are discussed below under the heading Results from Operations. 29 Revenue Analysis Revenue from flagship products was 46% of net revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2015 . Revenue from flagship products remained flat during the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year. Revenue from suites was 37% of net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and increased 14% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year. Revenue from new and adjacent products was 17% of net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and increased 30% as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year. We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (collectively, Tech Data). Tech Data accounted for 26% of Autodesks total net revenue for both the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 . Our customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of the agreements between Tech Data and us be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. Consequently, we believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech Data. Operating Margin Analysis Income from operations decreased 49% in the three months ended April 30, 2015 due to a $61.6 million or 13% increase in our operating expenses and a $13.1 million or 17% increase in cost of revenue, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Partially offsetting the increase in our spend was a $54.0 million or 9% increase in net revenue, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Our operating margin decreased to 3% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 from 7% for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . The increase in operating expenses and the corresponding decrease in operating margin during the three months ended April 30, 2015 were impacted by an increase in employee-related costs driven by an increase in headcount as a result of our continued support of the business model transition as well as the inclusion of a full quarter of results from Delcam. Further discussion regarding the cost of goods sold and operating expense activities are discussed below under the heading Results of Operations. Foreign Currency Analysis We generate a significant amount of our revenue in the U.S., Japan, Germany, France, and the United Kingdom. Our revenue was negatively impacted by foreign exchange rate changes during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year. Had applicable exchange rates from the three months ended April 30, 2014 been in effect during the three months ended April 30, 2015 and had we excluded foreign exchange hedge gains and losses from the three months ended April 30, 2015 , net revenue would have increased 13% on a constant currency basis during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Our total spend, defined as cost of revenue plus operating expenses, during the three months ended April 30, 2015 was positively impacted by foreign exchange rate changes. Total spend increased 14% on an as reported basis as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Had applicable exchange rates from the three months ended April 30, 2014 been in effect during the three months ended April 30, 2015 and had we excluded foreign exchange hedge gains and losses from the three months ended April 30, 2015 , total spend would have increased 18% on a constant currency basis compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may have a significant effect on net revenue, total spend, and income from operations in future periods. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate effect on a portion of the net revenue of certain anticipated transactions but do not attempt to completely mitigate the impact of fluctuations of such foreign currency against the U.S. dollar. Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items At April 30, 2015 , we had $ 2,271.2 million in cash and marketable securities. We completed the three months ended April 30, 2015 with lower accounts receivable and deferred revenue balances as compared to the end of the fiscal year ended January 31, 2015 . Our total deferred revenue balance at April 30, 2015 was $1,153.7 million and included $930.1 million of deferred subscription revenue primarily related to customer maintenance contracts, which will be recognized as revenue ratably 30 over the life of the contracts. The term of our maintenance contracts is typically between one and three years. Our cash flow from operations decreased 60% to $ 86.5 million as of April 30, 2015 from $ 218.7 million at April 30, 2014 . We repurchased 1.6 million shares of our common stock for $95.4 million during the three months ended April 30, 2015 . Comparatively, we repurchased 2.0 million shares of our common stock for $ 102.5 million during the three months ended April 30, 2014 . Further discussion regarding the balance sheet and cash flow activities are discussed below under the heading Liquidity and Capital Resources. Business Outlook Autodesk's business model is evolving. We continue to assess current business offerings including introducing more flexible license and service offerings that have ratable revenue streams. The accounting impact of these offerings and other business decisions are expected to result in an increase in the percentage of our ratable revenue, making for a more predictable business over time, while correspondingly reducing our upfront perpetual revenue stream. Over time, we expect our business model transition to expand our customer base by eliminating higher up-front licensing costs and providing more flexibility in how customers gain access to and pay for our products. We also expect our traditional perpetual license revenue to decline without a corresponding decrease in expenses over the next 12 to 24 months. In the future, we expect this business model transition will increase our long-term revenue growth rate by increasing total subscriptions and customer value over time. We expect net revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2016 will range from $600 million to $620 million, and that GAAP diluted earnings per share will range from a loss of $0.10 to a loss of $0.05 while non-GAAP diluted earnings per share will range from $0.14 to $0.19. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0.16 related to stock-based compensation expense and $0.08 related to the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, net of tax. We expect net billings for fiscal 2016 to increase by approximately 2% to 4% compared to fiscal 2015. We expect net revenue for fiscal 2016 to increase by approximately 2% to 4% compared to fiscal 2015, and that GAAP diluted earnings per share will range from break-even to $0.15 while non-GAAP diluted earnings per share will range from $0.95 to $1.10. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0.69 r elated to stock-based compensation expense and $0.26 related to the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, net of tax. Auto desk anticipates fiscal 2016 GAAP operating margin to be approximately 1% to 3% and non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 12% to 14%. The non-GAAP operating margin excludes 8 percentage points related to stock-based compensation expense and 3 percentage points related to the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, net of tax. Autodesk expects to add approximately 375,000 to 425,000 net new subscriptions in fiscal 2016 . We remain diligent about managing our spend while making essential investments to drive growth. If we are unable to successfully achieve our major business initiatives we may not achieve our financial goals. 31 Results of Operations Net Revenue Three Months Ended Increase (Decrease) compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2015 $ % April 30, 2014 Net Revenue: License and other $ 326.7 $ 10.5 3 % $ 316.2 Subscription 319.8 43.5 16 % 276.3 $ 646.5 $ 54.0 9 % $ 592.5 Net Revenue by Geographic Area: Americas $ 244.0 $ 38.3 19 % $ 205.7 Europe, Middle East and Africa 245.4 19.9 9 % 225.5 Asia Pacific 157.1 (4.2 ) (3 )% 161.3 $ 646.5 $ 54.0 9 % $ 592.5 Net Revenue by Operating Segment: Architecture, Engineering and Construction $ 236.7 $ 41.2 21 % $ 195.5 Platform Solutions and Emerging Business 185.3 (26.6 ) (13 )% 211.9 Manufacturing 184.6 37.3 25 % 147.3 Media and Entertainment 39.9 2.1 6 % 37.8 $ 646.5 $ 54.0 9 % $ 592.5 License and Other Revenue License and other revenue consists of two components: (1) all forms of product license revenue and (2) other revenue. Product license revenue includes software license revenue from the sale of seat licenses, term-based licenses from our desktop subscription and enterprise offerings, and product revenue for Creative Finishing. Other revenue includes revenue from consulting, training, and Creative Finishing customer support, and is recognized over time as the services are performed. License and other revenue increased 3% during the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2014 . This increase was primarily due to a 2% increase in product license revenue as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. The increase in product license revenue was due to a 13% increase in revenue from our suites products and a 59% increase in revenue from our new and adjacent products, partially offset by a 9% decrease in revenue from our flagship products. During the three months ended April 30, 2015 , the 2% increase in product license revenue was due to a 13% increase in the number of seats sold, partially offset by an 11% decrease in the average net revenue per seat. Product license revenue, as a percentage of License and other revenue, was 89% and 91% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. During the three months ended April 30, 2015 , other revenue represented 11% of license and other revenue, and 5% of total net revenue. Other revenue increased by 15% during the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2014 . The increase is primarily due to a 15% increase in revenue from consulting and the positive effect of a full quarter of Delcam results, partially offset by a decrease in education revenue as a result of our strategic transition to offer software licenses to students, educators, and institutions for little or no fees. Backlog related to current software license product orders that had not shipped at the end of the quarter decreased by $32.2 million during the three months ended April 30, 2015 from $40.4 million at January 31, 2015 to $8.2 million at April 30, 2015 . Backlog from current software license product orders that we have not yet shipped consists of orders for currently available licensed software products from customers with approved credit status. 32 Subscription Revenue Our Subscription revenue consists of three components: (1) maintenance revenue from our software products; (2) maintenance revenue from our term-based desktop subscription and enterprise offerings; and (3) revenue from our cloud service offerings. Our maintenance program provides our customers of software products with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance program, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, downloadable training courses, and online support. We recognize maintenance revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance agreement, which is generally between one and three years. Revenue for our cloud service offerings is recognized ratably over the contract term commencing with the date our service is made available to customers and all other revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied. Subscription revenue increased 16% during the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2014 , primarily due to a 13% increase in commercial maintenance revenue. The 13% increase in commercial maintenance revenue was due to a 13% increase in commercial enrollment, while net revenue per maintenance seat remained relatively flat during the corresponding maintenance contract term. Commercial maintenance revenue represented 93% and 95% of Subscription revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Changes in subscription revenue lag changes in subscription billings. Subscription billings increased 3% during the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to an increase in maintenance subscription billings. Our deferred subscription revenue balance at April 30, 2015 and January 31, 2015 was $ 930.1 million and $ 936.8 million , respectively, and primarily related to customer maintenance agreements, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance agreement. Net Revenue by Geographic Area Net revenue in the Americas geography increased by 19% on an as reported basis and on a constant currency basis, during the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily due to a 21% increase in our suites revenue and a 31% increase in our new and adjacent product revenue in this geography during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2014 . The increase in our revenue in this geography was led by the U.S. Net revenue in the EMEA geography increased by 9% on an as reported basis and 15% on a constant currency basis during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily due to a 14% increase in our suites revenue and a 34% increase in our new and adjacent product revenue in this geography during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2014 . The increase in our revenue in this geography was led by Ireland and the United Kingdom, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from Russia. Net revenue in the APAC geography decreased by 3% on an as reported basis and increased by 2% on a constant currency basis during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to an 8% decrease in our flagship products, partially offset by an 18% increase in our new and adjacent product revenue in this geography during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2014 . The growth in revenue from most countries in this geography, led by China, was more than offset by a 25% decline in revenue from Japan due to unfavorable economic conditions during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Net revenue in emerging economies increased by 17% during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increases in revenue from China and Mexico, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from Russia. Revenue from emerging economies represented 14% and 13% of net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. International net revenue represented 69% and 71% of our net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. We believe that international revenue will continue to comprise a majority of our net revenue. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies have significantly affected, and could continue to significantly affect, our financial results for a given period even though we hedge a portion of our current and projected revenue. Additionally, 33 weak global economic conditions that have been characterized by restructuring of sovereign debt, high unemployment, and volatility in the financial markets may impact our future financial results. Net Revenue by Operating Segment We have four reportable segments: AEC, Platform Solutions and Emerging Business (PSEB), MFG, and M&E. We have no material inter-segment revenue. During the three months ended April 30, 2015 , net revenue for AEC increased by 21% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to strong growth from our AEC suites, which was primarily driven by Autodesk Building Design Suite and Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suite. During the three months ended April 30, 2015 , net revenue for PSEB decreased by 13% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to a decrease in revenue from AutoCAD LT. During the three months ended April 30, 2015 , net revenue for MFG increased by 25% as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to the inclusion of a full quarter of Delcam operating results during the current period. Also contributing to the increase in net revenue for MFG was strong growth from our flagship product AutoCAD Mechanical, in addition to growth in our MFG suites. During the three months ended April 30, 2015 , net revenue for M&E increased by 6% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to an increase in revenue from Animation, which was primarily driven by our flagship products Maya and 3ds Max. Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended Increase compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2015 $ % April 30, 2014 Cost of revenue: License and other $ 53.1 $ 3.8 8 % $ 49.3 Subscription 38.7 9.3 32 % 29.4 $ 91.8 $ 13.1 17 % $ 78.7 As a percentage of net revenue 14 % 13 % Cost of license and other revenue includes labor costs associated with product setup and fulfillment and costs of consulting and training services contracts and collaborative project management services contracts. Cost of license and other revenue also includes stock-based compensation expense, direct material and overhead charges, amortization of developed technology, professional services fees and royalties. Direct material and overhead charges include the cost of hardware sold (mainly PC-based workstations for Creative Finishing in the M&E segment), costs associated with transferring our software to electronic media, physical media, packaging materials and shipping and handling costs. Cost of license and other revenue increased 8% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to an increase in division product costs including royalty fees in support of our business growth and an increase in Delcam related costs as a product of including a full quarter of results. Cost of subscription revenue includes the labor costs of providing product support to our maintenance and cloud subscription customers, including rent and occupancy, shipping and handling costs, professional services fees related to operating our network and cloud infrastructure, including depreciation expense and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries and related expenses of network operations. Cost of subscription revenue increased 32% during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to an increase in maintenance costs driven by increased employee headcount, and an increase in cloud and hosting related costs as a result of our business model transition. 34 Cost of revenue, at least over the near term, is affected by the volume and mix of product sales, mix of physical versus electronic fulfillment, fluctuations in consulting costs, amortization of developed technology, new customer support offerings, royalty rates for licensed technology embedded in our products and employee stock-based compensation expense. We expect cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars and slightly increase as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2015 . Marketing and Sales Three Months Ended Increase compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2015 $ % April 30, 2014 Marketing and sales $ 253.9 $ 28.5 13 % $ 225.4 As a percentage of net revenue 39 % 38 % Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our marketing and sales employees, the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and expositions, and various sales and promotional programs. Marketing and sales expenses also include labor costs associated with sales and order processing, sales and dealer commissions, rent and occupancy, and the cost of supplies and equipment. Marketing and sales expenses increased 13% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increased employee-related costs from salaries, fringe benefits, and bonus predominately driven by increased headcount from acquisitions such as Delcam. For the second quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2015 , we expect marketing and sales expense to slightly increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenue. Research and Development Three Months Ended Increase compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2015 $ % April 30, 2014 Research and development $ 194.5 $ 24.0 14 % $ 170.5 As a percentage of net revenue 30 % 29 % Research and development expenses, which are expensed as incurred, consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for research and development employees, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, rent and occupancy, and professional services such as fees paid to software development firms and independent contractors. Research and development expenses increased 14% during the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increased employee-related costs from salaries and fringe benefits predominately driven by increased headcount from acquisitions such as Delcam. For the second quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2015 , we expect research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars and slightly increase as a percentage of net revenue. 35 General and Administrative Three Months Ended Increase compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2015 $ % April 30, 2014 General and administrative $ 75.9 $ 13.4 21 % $ 62.5 As a percentage of net revenue 12 % 11 % General and administrative expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our finance, human resources and legal employees, as well as professional fees for legal and accounting services, gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges, expense of travel, entertainment and training, expense of communication and the cost of supplies and equipment. General and administrative expenses increased 21% during the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increased employee-related costs from salaries, fringe benefits, and bonus predominately driven by increased headcount from acquisitions such as Delcam. For the second quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2015 , we expect general and administrative expenses to slightly increase in absolute dollars and remain relatively flat as a percentage of net revenue. Amortization of Purchased Intangibles Three Months Ended Decrease compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2015 $ % April 30, 2014 Amortization of purchased intangibles $ 8.9 $ (2.0 ) (18 )% $ 10.9 As a percentage of net revenue 1 % 2 % Amortization of purchased intangibles decreased 18% during the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year, primarily related to the accumulated effects associated with amortization expense of intangible assets purchased over time. For the second quarter of fiscal 2016 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2015 , we expect amortization of purchased intangibles to decrease in absolute dollars and remain flat as a percentage of net revenue. Restructuring Charges, Net Three Months Ended Decrease compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2015 $ % April 30, 2014 Restructuring charges, net $ $ (2.3 ) (100 )% $ 2.3 As a percentage of net revenue % % During the third quarter of fiscal 2014, the Board of Directors approved a world-wide restructuring plan in order to re-balance staffing levels to better align them with the evolving needs of the business. The restructuring plan included a reduction of approximately 85 positions and the consolidation of four leased facilities, with a total cost of approximately $15.0 million . We have substantially completed the actions authorized under this plan. We recorded no restructuring charge during the three months ended April 30, 2015 . See Note 13 , Restructuring , in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 36 Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table sets forth the components of interest and other income (expense), net: Three Months Ended April 30, (in millions) 2015 2014 Interest and investment expense, net $ (2.0 ) $ (2.4 ) Loss on foreign currency (1.6 ) (3.3 ) Gain (loss) on strategic investments 1.0 (3.5 ) Other income 2.9 2.6 Interest and other income (expense), net $ 0.3 $ (6.6 ) Interest and other income (expense), net increased $ 6.9 million during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to gains recognized on the derivative portion on certain of our strategic investments that are marked-to-market each period, and a decrease in losses on foreign currency contracts. Interest and investment income fluctuates based on average cash, marketable securities and debt balances, average maturities and interest rates. Gains and losses on foreign currency are primarily due to the impact of re-measuring foreign currency transactions and net monetary assets into the functional currency of the corresponding entity. The amount of the gain or loss on foreign currency is driven by the volume of foreign currency transactions and the foreign currency exchange rates for the period. Provision for Income Taxes We account for income taxes and the related accounts under the liability method. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the basis differences reverse. Our effective tax rate was 12% during the three months ended April 30, 2015 , compared to 21% during the three months ended April 30, 2014 . Our effective tax rate decreased 9% during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to greater tax rate benefits from foreign earnings and state research credits, partially offset by tax rate detriments from accrual for uncertain tax positions and stock-based compensation expense. Excluding the impact of discrete tax items, the effective tax rate for three months ended April 30, 2015 was 27% and was lower than the Federal statutory tax rate of 35% , primarily due to foreign income taxed at lower rates partially offset by the impact of non-deductible stock based compensation expense and accrual for uncertain tax positions. Our future effective tax rate may be materially impacted by the amount of benefits and charges from tax amounts associated with our foreign earnings that are taxed at rates different from the federal statutory rate, research credits, state income taxes, the tax impact of stock-based compensation, accounting for uncertain tax positions, business combinations, U.S. Manufacturer's deduction, closure of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits, changes in valuation allowances and changes in tax laws including possible U.S. tax law changes that, if enacted, could significantly impact how U.S. multinational companies are taxed on foreign subsidiary earnings. A significant amount of our earnings is generated by our Europe and Asia Pacific subsidiaries. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates or we repatriate certain foreign earnings on which U.S. taxes have not previously been provided. At April 30, 2015 , we had net deferred tax assets of $188.0 million . We believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions to realize these assets. 37 Other Financial Information In addition to our results determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) discussed above, we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance. For the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , our gross profit, gross margin, income from operations, operating margin, net income and diluted earnings per share on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis were as follows (in millions except for year-over-year change in total net revenue and billings, year-over-year change in net subscription revenue and billings, gross margin, operating margin, and per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 (Unaudited) Year-over-year change in total net revenue 9 % 4 % Year-over-year change in total net billings (1) 3 % 9 % Year-over-year change in net subscription revenue 16 % 12 % Year-over-year change in net subscription billings (1) 3 % 18 % Gross profit $ 554.7 $ 513.8 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 571.1 $ 528.5 Gross margin 86 % 87 % Non-GAAP gross margin 88 % 89 % Income from operations $ 21.5 $ 42.2 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 94.1 $ 102.0 Operating margin 3 % 7 % Non-GAAP operating margin 15 % 17 % Net income $ 19.1 $ 28.3 Non-GAAP net income $ 69.1 $ 73.8 Diluted earnings per share (2) $ 0.08 $ 0.12 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (2) $ 0.30 $ 0.32 _______________ (1) Prior period was adjusted to conform with current period's presentation to include the effects from hedging on billings. (2) Earnings per share were computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the earnings per share amount for the quarters may not equal the total for the year. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons, we use non-GAAP measures to supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis. These non-GAAP measures do not include certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. We use non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe those measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our earning potential and performance for management by excluding certain expenses and charges that may not be indicative of our core business operating results. For the reasons set forth below, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. This allows investors and others to better understand and evaluate our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as management, compare financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies and to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. We also use some of these measures for purposes of determining company-wide incentive compensation. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures included above are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which charges are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our public disclosures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is meant to be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from, the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We urge investors to 38 review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Reconciliation of GAAP Financial Measures to Non-GAAP Financial Measures (In millions except for year-over-year changes, gross margin, operating margin, and per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 (Unaudited) Year-over-year change in total net revenue 9 % 4 % Change in deferred revenue (11 )% 8 % Change in hedge gain (loss) applicable to billings (1) 4 % (1 )% Change in acquisition related deferred revenue and other 1 % (2 )% Year-over-year change in total net billings 3 % 9 % Year-over-year change in net subscription revenue 16 % 12 % Change in deferred subscription revenue (20 )% 14 % Change in hedge gain (loss) applicable to subscription billings (1) 5 % (2 )% Change in acquisition related deferred subscription revenue and other 2 % (6 )% Year-over-year change in net subscription billings (1) 3 % 18 % Gross profit $ 554.7 $ 513.8 Stock-based compensation expense 2.9 1.7 Amortization of developed technologies 13.5 13.0 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 571.1 $ 528.5 Gross margin 86 % 87 % Stock-based compensation expense % % Amortization of developed technologies 2 % 2 % Non-GAAP gross margin 88 % 89 % Income from operations $ 21.5 $ 42.2 Stock-based compensation expense 50.2 33.6 Amortization of developed technologies 13.5 13.0 Amortization of purchased intangibles 8.9 10.9 Restructuring charges 2.3 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 94.1 $ 102.0 Operating margin 3 % 7 % Stock-based compensation expense 8 % 6 % Amortization of developed technologies 2 % 2 % Amortization of purchased intangibles 2 % 2 % Restructuring charges % % Non-GAAP operating margin 15 % 17 % Net income $ 19.1 $ 28.3 Stock-based compensation expense 50.2 33.6 Amortization of developed technologies 13.5 13.0 Amortization of purchased intangibles 8.9 10.9 Restructuring charges 2.3 (Gain) loss on strategic investments (1.0 ) 3.6 Discrete tax provision items (3.1 ) (2.1 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (18.5 ) (15.8 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 69.1 $ 73.8 39 Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 (Unaudited) Diluted net income per share (2) $ 0.08 $ 0.12 Stock-based compensation expense 0.21 0.14 Amortization of developed technologies 0.06 0.06 Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.04 0.05 Restructuring charges 0.01 (Gain) loss on strategic investments 0.02 Discrete tax provision items (0.01 ) (0.01 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (0.08 ) (0.07 ) Non-GAAP diluted net income per share (2) $ 0.30 $ 0.32 ____________________ (1) Prior period was adjusted to conform with current period's presentation to include the effects from hedging on billings. (2) Earnings per share were computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the earnings per share amount for the quarters may not equal the total for the year. Our non-GAAP financial measures may exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expenses. We exclude stock-based compensation expenses from non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use under FASB ASC Topic 718, we believe excluding stock-based compensation expenses allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangibles. We incur amortization of acquisition-related developed technology and purchased intangibles in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangibles is inconsistent in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of our acquisitions. Management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges from our cost of revenues to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangible assets will recur in future periods. Goodwill impairment. This is a non-cash charge to write-down goodwill to fair value when there was an indication that the asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Restructuring charges (benefits), net. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, the closure of facilities and cancellation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing business and operating results. We believe it is useful for investors to understand the effects of these items on our total operating expenses. Loss (gain) on strategic investments. We exclude gains and losses related to our strategic investments from our non-GAAP measures primarily because management finds it useful to exclude these variable gains and losses on these investments in assessing our financial results. Included in these amounts are non-cash unrealized gains and losses on the derivative components, realized gains and losses on the sales or losses on the impairment of these investments. We believe excluding these items is useful to investors because these excluded items do not correlate to the underlying performance of our business and these losses or gains were incurred in connection with strategic investments which do not occur regularly. Establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets. This is a non-cash charge to record a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various cash expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. 40 Discrete tax items. We exclude the GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from the non-GAAP measure of income, and include a non-GAAP tax provision based upon the projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Discrete tax items include income tax expenses or benefits that do not relate to ordinary income from continuing operations in the current fiscal year, unusual or infrequently occurring items, or the tax impact of certain stock-based compensation. Examples of discrete tax items include, but are not limited to, certain changes in judgment and changes in estimates of tax matters related to prior fiscal years, certain costs related to business combinations, certain changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets or changes in tax law. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to ongoing operations. We believe the exclusion of these discrete tax items provides investors with useful supplemental information about the Company's operational performance. Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP expenses, primarily due to stock-based compensation, amortization of purchased intangibles and restructuring charges (benefits) for GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of cash is from the sale of licenses to our products. Our primary use of cash is payment of our operating costs which consist primarily of employee-related expenses, such as compensation and benefits, as well as general operating expenses for marketing, facilities and overhead costs. In addition to operating expenses, we also use cash to fund our stock repurchase program and invest in our growth initiatives, which include acquisitions of products, technology and businesses. See further discussion of these items below. At April 30, 2015 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $2,271.2 million and net accounts receivable of $316.0 million . In fiscal 2013, we issued $ 400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.95% senior notes due December 15, 2017 and $ 350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.6% senior notes due December 15, 2022 (collectively, the Senior Notes). As of May 28, 2015 , we have $ 750.0 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes outstanding. In addition, we have a line of credit facility that permits unsecured short-term borrowings of up to $ 400.0 million . As of May 28, 2015 , we have no amounts outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility expires in May 2018. Borrowings under the credit facility and the net proceeds from the offering of the Senior Notes are available for general corporate purposes. Our cash and cash equivalents are held by diversified financial institutions globally. Our primary commercial banking relationship is with Citigroup and its global affiliates. In addition, Citibank N.A., an affiliate of Citigroup, is one of the lead lenders and agent in the syndicate of our $400.0 million line of credit. The decrease in our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities from $ 2,299.4 million at January 31, 2015 to $2,271.2 million at April 30, 2015 is primarily due to cash used for repurchases of common stock, acquisitions, including business combination and technology purchases, and capital expenditures, partially offset by cash generated by operating activities, and proceeds from the issuance of common stock following stock option exercises and employee stock plan purchases. The cash proceeds from issuance of common stock vary based on our stock price, stock option exercise activity and the volume of employee purchases under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The primary sources for net cash provided by operating activities of $86.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 was net income of $19.1 million increased by the effect of non-cash expenses totaling $88.0 million associated with depreciation, amortization, accretion, and stock-based compensation. The primary working capital source of cash was a decrease in accounts receivable. Our days sales outstanding in trade receivables was 44 at April 30, 2015 compared to 63 days at January 31, 2015 . The days sales outstanding decrease relates primarily to a seasonal billings linearity shift and lower maintenance subscription billings. The primary working capital uses of cash were decreases in accrued compensation and other accrued liabilities. At April 30, 2015 , our short-term investment portfolio had an estimated fair value of $648.2 million and a cost basis of $643.8 million . The portfolio fair value consisted of $229.3 million invested in commercial paper, $151.6 million invested in certificates of deposit, $148.9 million invested in corporate debt securities, $43.8 million invested in U.S. government agency bonds, $19.0 million invested in municipal bonds, and $11.1 million invested in U.S. treasury bills. 41 At April 30, 2015 , $44.5 million of trading securities were invested in a defined set of mutual funds as directed by the participants in our Deferred Compensation Plan (see Note 10 , Deferred Compensation , in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). Long-term cash requirements for items other than normal operating expenses are anticipated for the following: common stock repurchases; the acquisition of businesses, software products, or technologies complementary to our business; and capital expenditures, including the purchase and implementation of internal-use software applications. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. Our decision to acquire businesses or technology is dependent on our business needs, the availability of suitable sellers and technology, and our own financial condition. As of April 30, 2015 , there have been no material changes in our contractual obligations or commercial commitments compared to those we disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2015 . Our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances are concentrated in a few locations around the world, with substantial amounts held outside of the U.S. As of April 30, 2015 , approximately 86% of our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are located offshore and will fluctuate subject to business needs. Certain amounts held outside the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. (subject to local law restrictions), but under current U.S. tax law, could be subject to U.S. income taxes less applicable foreign tax credits. We have provided for the U.S. income tax liability on foreign earnings, except for foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside the U.S. Our intent is that amounts related to foreign earnings permanently reinvested outside the U.S. will remain outside the U.S. and we will meet our U.S. liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. We regularly review our capital structure and consider a variety of potential financing alternatives and planning strategies to ensure we have the proper liquidity available in the locations in which it is needed and to fund our existing stock buyback program with cash that has not been permanently reinvested outside the U.S. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors . However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our revenue, earnings, cash flows, receivables and payables are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, for which we have put in place foreign currency contracts as part of our risk management strategy. See Part I, Item 3,