ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion in our MD&A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q contains trend analyses and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies, including those discussed in Strategy, Overview of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2021, and in Results of Operations-Impacts of COVID-19 to Autodesks Business. Examples of such forward-looking statements may relate to items such as future net revenue, operating expenses, recurring revenue, net revenue retention rate, cash flow, remaining performance obligations, and other future financial results (by product type and geography), the effectiveness of our efforts to successfully manage transitions to new markets; our ability to increase our subscription base; expected market trends, including the growth of cloud and mobile computing; the availability of credit; the effect of unemployment; the effects of global economic conditions, including from an economic downturn or recession in the United States or in other countries around the world; the effects of revenue recognition; the effects of recently issued accounting standards; expected trends in certain financial metrics, including expenses; expectations regarding our cash needs; the effects of fluctuations in exchange rates and our hedging activities on our financial results; our ability to successfully expand adoption of our products; our ability to gain market acceptance of new business and sales initiatives; the impact of past acquisitions, including our integration efforts and expected synergies; the impact of economic volatility and geopolitical activities in certain countries, particularly emerging economy countries; the timing and amount of purchases under our stock buy-back plan; and the effects of potential non-cash charges on our financial results and the resulting effect on our financial results. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product capability and acceptance, statements regarding our liquidity and short-term and long-term cash requirements, as well as statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as may, believe, could, anticipate, would, might, plan, expect, and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those set forth below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made, except as required by law. Note: A glossary of terms used in this Form 10-Q appears at the end of this Item 2. Strategy Autodesk makes software for people who make things. If you have ever driven a high-performance car, admired a towering skyscraper, used a smartphone, or watched a great film, chances are you have experienced what millions of Autodesk customers are doing with our software. We empower innovators to achieve the new possible - enabling them to discover first-in-kind solutions to complex design challenges, deliver tangible outcomes in record time, and make data-powered decisions for sustainable outcomes. Our strategy is to build enduring relationships with customers, delivering innovative technology that provides valuable automation and insight into their design and make process. To drive execution of our strategy, we are focused on three strategic priorities: delivering on the promise of subscription, digitizing the company, and reimagining construction, manufacturing, and production. We equip and inspire our users with the tailored tools, services, and access they need for success today and tomorrow. At every step, we help users harness the power of data to build upon their ideas and explore new ways of imagining, collaborating, and creating to achieve better outcomes for their customers, for society, and for the world. And because creativity cant flourish in silos, we connect what matters - from steps in a project to collaborators on a unified platform. Autodesk was founded during the platform transition from mainframe computers and engineering workstations to personal computers. We have developed and sustained a compelling value proposition based upon desktop software for the personal computer. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry over 30 years ago, the software industry has undergone a transition from developing and selling perpetual licenses and on-premises products to subscriptions and cloud-enabled technologies. 29 Product Evolution We offer subscriptions for individual products and Industry Collections, enterprise business arrangements (EBAs), and cloud service offerings (collectively referred to as subscription plan). Subscription plans are designed to give our customers more flexibility with how they use our offerings and to attract a broader range of customers, such as project-based users and small businesses. Our subscription plans currently represent a hybrid of desktop software and cloud functionality, which provides a device-independent, collaborative design workflow for designers and their stakeholders. Our cloud offerings, for example, BIM 360, Shotgrid (formerly Shotgun), AutoCAD web app, and AutoCAD mobile app, provide tools, including mobile and collaboration capabilities, to streamline design, collaboration, building and manufacturing, and data management processes. We believe that customer adoption of these latest offerings will continue to grow as customers across a range of industries begin to take advantage of the scalable computing power and flexibility provided through these services. Industry Collections provide our customers with access to a broader selection of Autodesk solutions and services, simplifying the customers ability to benefit from a complete set of tools for their industry. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology, and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and may, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these factors in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology, and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. To support our strategic priority of re-imagining Architecture, Engineering, and Construction (AEC), we are strengthening the foundation of our AEC solutions with both organic and inorganic investments. In the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2021, we acquired Storm UK Holdco Limited, the parent of Innovyze, Inc. (Innovyze), which provides water infrastructure software. Combining Innovyzes hydraulic modeling, simulation, asset performance management and operational analytics solutions with Autodesks design and analysis solutions (including Autodesk Civil 3D, Autodesk InfraWorks, and the Autodesk Construction Cloud) enables us to deliver end-to-end, cloud-based solutions for our water infrastructure customers that drive efficiency and sustainability. In fiscal 2021, we acquired Spacemaker which uses cloud-based, artificial intelligence (AI), and generative design to help architects, urban designers, and real estate developers make faster and more informed early-stage design decisions which can help maximize the long-term sustainability and return from property investments. Other acquisitions in fiscal 2021 included solutions that use artificial intelligence and machine learning to extract and process data from project plans and specifications allowing general contractors, subcontractors, and owners to automate workflows such as submittals and project closeout. In Manufacturing, our strategy is to combine organic and acquired software in existing and adjacent verticals to create end-to-end, cloud-based solutions for our customers that drive efficiency and sustainability. We continue to attract both global manufacturing leaders and disruptive startups with our generative design and cloud-based Fusion 360 that converges the process of design with manufacturing. A fiscal 2021 acquisition included a leading provider of post-processing and machine simulation solutions. In May 2021, we acquired Upchain, an instant-on, cloud-based data management technology that allows product design and manufacturing customers to collaborate in the cloud across their value chains and bring products to market faster. Global Reach We sell our products and services globally, through a combination of indirect and direct channels. Our indirect channels include value added resellers, direct market resellers, distributors, computer manufacturers, and other software developers. Our direct channels include internal sales resources dedicated to selling in our largest accounts, our highly specialized solutions, and business transacted through our online Autodesk branded store. See Note 3, Revenue Recognition in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on the results of our indirect and direct channel sales for the three months ended April 30, 2021 and 2020. We anticipate that our channel mix will continue to change as we scale our online Autodesk branded store business and our largest accounts shift towards direct-only business models. However, we expect our indirect channel will continue to transact and support the majority of our customers and revenue. We employ a variety of incentive programs and promotions to align our direct and indirect channels with our business strategies. In addition, we have a worldwide user group organization and we have created online user communities dedicated to the exchange of information related to the use of our products. 30 One of our key strategies is to maintain an open-architecture design of our software products to facilitate third-party development of complementary products and industry-specific software solutions. This approach enables customers and third parties to customize solutions for a wide variety of highly specific uses. We offer several programs that provide strategic investment funding, technological platforms, user communities, technical support, forums, and events to developers who develop add-on applications for our products. For example, we have established the Autodesk Forge developer program to support innovators that build solutions to facilitate the development of a single connected ecosystem for the future of how things are designed, made, and used as well as support ideas that push the boundaries of 3D printing. In addition to the competitive advantages afforded by our technology, our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educators, educational institutions, learning partners, and students is a key competitive advantage which has been cultivated over an extensive period. This network of partners and relationships provides us with a broad and deep reach into volume markets around the world. Our distributor and reseller network is extensive and provides our customers with the resources to purchase, deploy, learn, and support our solutions quickly and easily. We have a significant number of registered third-party developers who create products that work well with our solutions and extend them for a variety of specialized applications. Impact at Autodesk To help our customers imagine, design, and make a better world, our impact initiatives focus our efforts on the areas where we can have the greatest positive impact: products and support for our customers, catalyzing impact and innovation across industry, investing in our customers and employees access and ability to learn and develop relevant skills for in-demand roles, and leading by example with our 100% renewable, net-zero greenhouse gas emissions, and inclusive business practices. Through our products and services, we partner with customers to help them better understand and improve the environmental, energy, and materials performance of everything they make, help them make products, buildings, and entire cities that foster healthy and resilient communities, and help them adapt, grow, and prosper alongside increasing levels of automation. The Autodesk Foundation (the Foundation), a privately funded 501(c)(3) charity organization established and solely funded by us, leads our philanthropic efforts. The purpose of the Foundation is twofold: to support employees to make a better world by matching employees volunteer time and/or donations to nonprofit organizations; and to support organizations and individuals using design to drive positive social and environmental impact. On our behalf, the Foundation also administers a discounted software donation program to nonprofit organizations, social and environmental entrepreneurs, and others who are developing design solutions that will shape a more sustainable future. Additional information about our environmental, social, and governance program are available in our annual impact report on our website at www.autodesk.com. Assumptions Behind Our Strategy Our strategy depends upon a number of assumptions, including: making our technology available to mainstream markets; leveraging our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educators, educational institutions, learning partners, and students; improving the performance and functionality of our products; and adequately protecting our intellectual property. If the outcome of any of these assumptions differs from our expectations, we may not be able to implement our strategy, which could potentially adversely affect our business. For further discussion regarding these and related risks, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments, and estimates that can have a significant impact on amounts reported in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. We base our assumptions, judgments, and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021. 31 An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, if different estimates reasonably could have been used, or if changes in the estimate that are reasonably possible could materially impact the financial statements. We highlighted those policies that involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity with further discussion in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in our Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended April 30, 2021, as compared to those disclosed in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021. We believe these policies are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Overview of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 Total net revenue increased 12% to $989.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021, compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year. Recurring revenue as a percentage of net revenue was 98% for the three months ended April 30, 2021, compared to 98% for the same period in the prior fiscal year. Net revenue retention rate (NR3) was within the range of 100% and 110% as of April 30, 2021, and within the range of 110% and 120% as of April 30, 2020. Deferred revenue was $3.35 billion, a decrease of 0.5% compared to the fourth quarter in the prior fiscal year. Remaining performance obligations (short-term and long-term deferred revenue plus unbilled deferred revenue) (RPO) was $4.23 billion, a decrease of 0.1% compared to the fourth quarter in the prior fiscal year. Current remaining performance obligations were $2.86 billion, an increase of 5% compared to the fourth quarter in the prior fiscal year. Revenue Analysis Net revenue increased during the three months ended April 30, 2021, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 18% increase in subscription revenue, partially offset by a 69% decrease in maintenance revenue. For further discussion of the drivers of these results, see below under the heading Results of Operations. We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (collectively, Tech Data) and Ingram Micro Inc. (Ingram Micro). Total sales to Tech Data accounted for 36% and 38% of our total net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. During both the three months ended April 30, 2021 and 2020, Ingram Micro accounted for 10% of Autodesk's total net revenue. Our customers through Tech Data and Ingram Micro are the resellers and end users who purchase our software subscriptions and services. Should any of our agreements with Tech Data or Ingram Micro be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data or Ingram Micro would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. Consequently, we believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech Data or Ingram Micro. Recurring Revenue and Net Revenue Retention Rate In order to help better understand our financial performance we use several key performance metrics including recurring revenue and NR3. These metrics are key performance metrics and should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue as these metrics are not intended to be combined with those items. We use these metrics to monitor the strength of our recurring business. We believe these metrics are useful to investors because they can help in monitoring the long-term health of our business. Our determination and presentation of these metrics may differ from that of other companies. The presentation of these metrics is meant to be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from, our financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Please refer to the Glossary of Terms for the definitions of these metrics. 32 The following table outlines our recurring revenue metric for the three months ended April 30, 2021 and 2020: Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 (In millions, except percentage data) $ % Recurring revenue (1) $ 966.6 $ 101.5 12 % $ 865.1 As a percentage of net revenue 98 % N/A N/A 98 % ________________ (1) The acquisition of a business may cause variability in the comparison of recurring revenue in this table above and recurring revenue derived from the revenue reported in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. NR3 was within the range of 100% and 110% as of April 30, 2021, and within the range of 110% and 120% as of April 30, 2020. Foreign Currency Analysis We generate a significant amount of our revenue in the United States, Japan, Germany, Finland, and the United Kingdom. The following table shows the impact of foreign exchange rate changes on our net revenue and total spend: Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 Percent change compared to prior fiscal year Constant Currency percent change compared to prior fiscal year (1) Positive/Negative/Neutral impact from foreign exchange rate changes Net revenue 12 % 11 % Positive Total spend 13 % 12 % Negative ________________ (1) Please refer to the Glossary of Terms for the definitions of our constant currency growth rates. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may have a significant effect on net revenue, total spend, and income (loss) from operations in future periods. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate effect on a portion of the net revenue of certain anticipated transactions but do not attempt to completely mitigate the impact of fluctuations of such foreign currency against the U.S. dollar. Remaining Performance Obligations RPO represents deferred revenue and contractually stated or committed orders under early renewal and multi-year billing plans for subscription, services, license, and maintenance for which the associated deferred revenue has not yet been recognized. Unbilled deferred revenue is not included as a receivable or deferred revenue on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 3, Revenue Recognition, for more details on Autodesk's performance obligations. (in millions) April 30, 2021 January 31, 2021 Deferred revenue $ 3,345.0 $ 3,360.2 Unbilled deferred revenue 889.4 880.5 RPO $ 4,234.4 $ 4,240.7 RPO consisted of the following: (in millions) April 30, 2021 January 31, 2021 Current RPO $ 2,862.8 $ 2,738.0 Non-current RPO 1,371.6 1,502.7 RPO $ 4,234.4 $ 4,240.7 33 We expect that the amount of RPO will change from quarter to quarter for several reasons, including the specific timing, duration, and size of customer subscription and support agreements, varying billing cycles of such agreements, the specific timing of customer renewals, and foreign currency fluctuations. Historically, we have had increased EBA sales activity in our fourth fiscal quarter and this seasonality may affect the relative value of our billings, RPO, and collections in the fourth and first fiscal quarters. Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items At April 30, 2021, we had $923.2 million in cash and marketable securities. Our cash flow from operations increased to $336.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021, compared to $327.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020. We repurchased 0.5 million shares of our common stock for $142.7 million during the three months ended April 30, 2021. Comparatively, we repurchased 1.2 million shares of our common stock for $189.0 million during the three months ended April 30, 2020. See further discussion regarding the balance sheet and cash flow activities under the heading Liquidity and Capital Resources. Results of Operations Impacts of COVID-19 to Autodesks Business We are continuing to conduct business during the COVID-19 pandemic with substantial modifications to employee travel, employee work locations, and virtualization, postponement or cancellation of certain sales and marketing events, among other modifications. We have observed other companies, as well as many governments continuing to take precautionary measures to address COVID-19, and they may take further actions that alter their normal business operations. While government authorities in some geographies are removing COVID-19 related business operations restrictions, we continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions that alter our business operations as may be required by federal, state, or local authorities, or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, partners, suppliers, and stockholders. In the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2021, we experienced new product subscriptions growth, improving usage and renewal rates, and accelerating billings and RPO growth. Contributing to our financial performance in the first fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2021, was robust growth in new product subscriptions, accelerating digital sales, stronger than expected upfront revenue, and improving subscription renewal rates. In our target markets, both Architecture, Engineering, and Construction (AEC) and Manufacturing (MFG) experienced growth as compared to the first fiscal quarter in the prior year. We will continue to invest in critical areas such as R&D, construction, and digitizing the company to ensure our future success as we come out of the pandemic. We believe our investment in cloud products and a subscription business model, backed by a strong balance sheet, give us a robust foundation to successfully navigate the economic challenges of COVID-19. The extent of the impact on our business in fiscal 2022 and beyond will depend on several factors, including the full duration and the extent of the pandemic; actions taken by governments, businesses, and consumers in response to the pandemic; speed and timing of economic recovery; speed of rollout of COVID-19 vaccines, lifting of restrictions on movement, and normalization of full-time return to work and social events; our billings and renewal rates, including new business close rates, rate of multi-year contracts, pace of closing larger transactions, and new unit volume growth; and effect of the pandemic on margins and cash flow. All of these factors continue to evolve and remain uncertain at this time, and some of these factors are not within our control. Further discussion of the potential impacts of COVID-19 on our business can be found in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Net Revenue Net Revenue by Income Statement Presentation Subscription revenue consists of our term-based product subscriptions, cloud service offerings, and flexible EBAs. Revenue from these arrangements is predominately recognized ratably over the contract term commencing with the date our service is made available to customers and when all other revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied. Maintenance revenue consists of renewal fees for existing maintenance plan agreements that were initially purchased with a perpetual software license. Under our maintenance plan, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades, when and if available, and technical support. We recognize maintenance revenue ratably over the term of the agreements, which is generally one year. 34 Other revenue consists of revenue from consulting, training, and other products and services, and is recognized as the products are delivered and services are performed. Three Months Ended Change Compared to Prior Fiscal Year Three Months Ended Management comments (In millions, except percentages) April 30, 2021 $ % April 30, 2020 Net Revenue: Subscription $ 947.5 $ 144.5 18 % $ 803.0 Increase due to growth across all subscription types, led by product subscription renewal revenue. Also contributing to the growth was an increase in revenue from EBA offerings and new product subscriptions. Maintenance (1) 19.1 (43.0) (69) % 62.1 Decrease primarily due to the migration of maintenance plan subscriptions to subscription plan subscriptions. Total subscription and maintenance revenue 966.6 101.5 12 % 865.1 Other 22.7 2.1 10 % 20.6 $ 989.3 $ 103.6 12 % $ 885.7 ____________________ (1) We expect maintenance revenue will slowly decline; however, the rate of decline will vary based on the number of renewals, the renewal rate, and our ability to incentivize maintenance plan customers to transition to subscription plan offerings. Net Revenue by Product Family Our product offerings are focused in four primary product families: Architecture, Engineering and Construction (AEC), AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT, Manufacturing (MFG), and Media and Entertainment (M&E). Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended Management comments (In millions, except percentages) April 30, 2021 $ % April 30, 2020 Net Revenue by Product Family: AEC $ 442.6 $ 59.9 16 % $ 382.7 Increase due to growth in revenue from EBAs, AEC Collections, BIM 360, and Revit. AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT 285.1 22.9 9 % 262.2 Increase due to growth in revenue from both AutoCAD LT and AutoCAD. MFG 197.3 14.4 8 % 182.9 Increase due to growth in revenue from EBAs, MFG Collections and Fusion360. M&E 55.0 2.4 5 % 52.6 Increase due to growth in revenue from M&E Collections, EBAs, and Maya. Other 9.3 4.0 75 % 5.3 $ 989.3 $ 103.6 12 % $ 885.7 35 Net Revenue by Geographic Area Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 Change compared to prior fiscal year Constant currency change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 (In millions, except percentages) $ % % Net Revenue: Americas U.S. $ 324.0 $ 23.4 8 % * $ 300.6 Other Americas 67.7 6.1 10 % * 61.6 Total Americas 391.7 29.5 8 % 9 % 362.2 EMEA 382.5 37.7 11 % 10 % 344.8 APAC 215.1 36.4 20 % 18 % 178.7 Total Net Revenue $ 989.3 $ 103.6 12 % 11 % $ 885.7 Emerging Economies $ 121.1 $ 9.7 9 % 9 % $ 111.4 ____________________ * Constant currency data not provided at this level. We believe that international revenue will continue to comprise a majority of our net revenue. Unfavorable economic conditions in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including in emerging economies such as Brazil, Russia, India, and China, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies have significantly affected, and could continue to significantly affect, our financial results for a given period even though we hedge a portion of our current and projected revenue. Increases to the levels of political and economic unpredictability or protectionism in the global market may impact our future financial results. Net Revenue by Sales Channel Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended Management Comments (In millions, except percentages) April 30, 2021 $ % April 30, 2020 Net Revenue by Sales Channel: Indirect $ 661.3 $ 37.9 6 % $ 623.4 Increase due to growth in subscription revenue. Direct 328.0 65.7 25 % 262.3 Increase due to an increase in EBAs and our online Autodesk branded store. Total Net Revenue $ 989.3 $ 103.6 12 % $ 885.7 Net Revenue by Product Type Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 (In millions, except percentages) $ % Management Comments Net Revenue by Product Type: Design Design $ 885.1 $ 87.4 11 % $ 797.7 Increase is due to growth in EBA offerings, AutoCAD LT, AEC & MFG collections, and AutoCAD Family. Make 81.5 14.1 21 % 67.4 Increase primarily due to growth in revenue from BIM Family, Fusion, and Plangrid products. Other 22.7 2.1 10 % 20.6 Total Net Revenue $ 989.3 $ 103.6 12 % $ 885.7 36 Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost of subscription and maintenance revenue includes the labor costs of providing product support to our subscription and maintenance customers, SaaS vendor costs and allocated IT costs, facilities costs, professional services fees related to operating our network and cloud infrastructure, royalties, depreciation expense and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries, related expenses of network operations, stock-based compensation expense, and gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges. Cost of other revenue includes labor costs associated with product setup, costs of consulting and training services contracts, and collaborative project management services contracts. Cost of other revenue also includes stock-based compensation expense, overhead charges, allocated IT and facilities costs, professional services fees, and gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges. Cost of revenue, at least over the near term, is affected by labor costs, hosting costs for our cloud offerings, the volume and mix of product sales, fluctuations in consulting costs, amortization of developed technology, new customer support offerings, royalty rates for licensed technology embedded in our products, stock-based compensation expense, and gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges. Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense for our marketing and sales employees, the expense of travel, entertainment, and training for such personnel, sales and dealer commissions, and the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and expositions, and various sales and promotional programs. Marketing and sales expenses also include SaaS vendor costs and allocated IT costs, payment processing fees, the cost of supplies and equipment, gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges, facilities costs, and labor costs associated with sales and order management. Research and development expenses, which are expensed as incurred, consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense for research and development employees, the expense of travel, entertainment, and training for such personnel, professional services such as fees paid to software development firms and independent contractors, SaaS vendor costs and allocated IT costs, gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges, and facilities costs. General and administrative expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense for our CEO, finance, human resources, and legal employees, as well as professional fees for legal and accounting services, SaaS vendor costs and net IT costs, certain foreign business taxes, gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges, expense of travel, entertainment, and training, facilities costs, acquisition-related costs, and the cost of supplies and equipment. 37 Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended Management comments (In millions, except percentages) April 30, 2021 $ % April 30, 2020 Cost of revenue: Subscription and maintenance $ 68.5 $ 11.1 19 % $ 57.4 Increase primarily due to an increase in cloud hosting costs as well as an increase in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount. Other 14.1 (3.0) (18) % 17.1 Decrease primarily due to a decrease in employee-related costs. Amortization of developed technologies 10.2 2.8 38 % 7.4 Increase due to growth in amortization expense from acquired developed technologies as a result of our acquisitions in the fourth quarter of FY21 and in the current period. Total cost of revenue $ 92.8 $ 10.9 13 % $ 81.9 Operating expenses: Marketing and sales $ 377.1 $ 35.8 10 % $ 341.3 Increase primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount, an increase in stock-based compensation as well as an increase in advertising cost, and professional fees partially offset by lower travel and entertainment expenses and an increase in capitalized software costs. Research and development 265.5 48.1 22 % 217.4 Increase primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs driven by higher headcount, an increase in stock-based compensation as well as an increase in professional fees, and cloud hosting costs partially offset by lower travel and entertainment expense. General and administrative 111.9 7.1 7 % 104.8 Increase primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs driven by headcount as well as an increase in acquisition related costs offset by lower professional fees, lower stock based compensation expense, and an increase in capitalized software costs. Amortization of purchased intangibles 8.2 (1.5) (15) % 9.7 Decrease primarily due to previously acquired intangible assets becoming fully amortized. Total operating expenses $ 762.7 $ 89.5 13 % $ 673.2 ____________________ * Percentage is not meaningful. The following table highlights our expectation for the absolute dollar change and percent of revenue change between the second quarter of fiscal 2022, as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2021: Absolute dollar impact Percent of net revenue impact Cost of revenue Increase Flat Marketing and sales Increase Flat Research and development Increase Increase General and administrative Increase Flat Amortization of purchased intangibles Flat Flat 38 Interest and Other Expense, Net The following table sets forth the components of interest and other expense, net: Three Months Ended April 30, (in millions) 2021 2020 Interest and investment expense, net $ (10.6) $ (22.3) Gain (loss) on foreign currency 2.4 (1.8) Gain (loss) on non-marketable equity securities, net 4.7 (16.6) Other income 1.1 0.6 Interest and other expense, net $ (2.4) $ (40.1) Interest and other expense, net, decreased by $37.7 million during the three months ended April 30, 2021, as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in impairments and negative measurement alternative adjustments on our strategic investment equity securities, mark-to market gains on debt and equity securities held in a rabbi trust under non-qualified deferred compensation plans in the current period compared to losses in the prior period, and gains in the current period on foreign currency compared to losses in the prior period. Interest expense and investment income fluctuates based on average cash, marketable securities, debt balances, average maturities, and interest rates. Gains and losses on foreign currency are primarily due to the impact of re-measuring foreign currency transactions and net monetary assets into the functional currency of the corresponding entity. The amount of the gain or loss on foreign currency is driven by the volume of foreign currency transactions and the foreign currency exchange rates for the period. Provision for Income Taxes We account for income taxes and the related accounts under the liability method. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the basis differences reverse. We had an income tax benefit of $24.2 million, relative to pre-tax income of $131.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021, and an income tax expense of $24.0 million, relative to pre-tax income of $90.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020. Income tax benefit for the three months ended April 30, 2021, reflects a decrease in tax expense due to a discrete tax benefit primarily related to a Supreme Court decision in India on the taxability of software license payments to nonresidents and the associated withholding taxes, offset by an increase in tax expense from jurisdictional mix of year-to-date earnings relative to the worldwide annual effective tax rate. We regularly assess the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. In making that assessment, we consider both positive and negative evidence related to the likelihood of realization of the deferred tax assets to determine, based on the weight of available evidence, whether it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We have maintained a valuation allowance on our Netherlands, Canada, California, Michigan and capital loss deferred tax assets as it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. As we continually strive to optimize our overall business model, tax planning strategies may become feasible and prudent allowing us to realize many of the deferred tax assets that are offset by a valuation allowance; therefore, we will continue to evaluate the ability to utilize the deferred tax assets each quarter, both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, based on all available evidence, both positive and negative. As of April 30, 2021, we had $200.5 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of which $32.1 million would reduce our valuation allowance, if recognized. The remaining $168.4 million would impact the effective tax rate, if recognized. It is possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will decrease in the next 12 months for an audit settlement of approximately $8.2 million. We anticipate that the U.S. Department of Treasury will continue to interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) will be applied or otherwise administered. As future guidance is issued, we may make adjustments to the amounts that we have previously recorded that may materially impact our financial statements. 39 Our future effective annual tax rate may be materially impacted by the amount of benefits and charges from tax amounts associated with our foreign earnings that are taxed at rates different from the federal statutory rate, changes in valuation allowances, level of profit before tax, accounting for uncertain tax positions, business combinations, closure of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits, and changes in tax laws including impacts of the Tax Act. A significant amount of our earnings is generated by our Europe and Asia Pacific subsidiaries. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates. On June 29, 2020, California enacted Assembly Bill No. 85, suspending utilization of net operating losses and limiting R&D credits utilization against California taxable income in excess of $5.0 million for the remaining 2 years. Other Financial Information In addition to our results determined under GAAP discussed above, we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance. For the three months ended April 30, 2021 and 2020, our gross profit, income from operations, operating margin, net income, and diluted net income per share on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis were as follows (in millions except for operating margin, and per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 896.5 $ 803.8 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 914.0 $ 816.5 Income from operations $ 133.8 $ 130.6 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 280.0 $ 247.8 Operating margin 14 % 15 % Non-GAAP operating margin 28 % 28 % Net income $ 155.6 $ 66.5 Non-GAAP net income $ 229.2 $ 188.4 GAAP diluted net income per share $ 0.70 $ 0.30 Non-GAAP diluted net income per share $ 1.03 $ 0.85 For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process and as a means to provide consistency in period-to-period comparisons, we use non-GAAP measures to supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis. These non-GAAP measures do not include certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. We also use non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe those measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our earning potential and performance for management by excluding certain benefits, credits, expenses, and charges that may not be indicative of our core business operating results. For the reasons set forth below, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. This allows investors and others to better understand and evaluate our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as management, compare financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies, and to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. We also use some of these measures for purposes of determining company-wide incentive compensation. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures included above are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which charges are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our public disclosures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is meant to be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from, the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 40 Reconciliation of GAAP Financial Measures to Non-GAAP Financial Measures (In millions except for operating margin and per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 896.5 $ 803.8 Stock-based compensation expense 7.1 5.1 Amortization of developed technologies 10.2 7.4 Acquisition-related costs 0.2 0.2 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 914.0 $ 816.5 Income from operations $ 133.8 $ 130.6 Stock-based compensation expense 115.8 98.2 Amortization of developed technologies 10.2 7.4 Amortization of purchased intangibles 8.2 9.7 Acquisition-related costs 12.0 1.9 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 280.0 $ 247.8 Operating margin 14 % 15 % Stock-based compensation expense 12 % 11 % Amortization of developed technologies 1 % 1 % Amortization of purchased intangibles 1 % 1 % Acquisition-related costs 1 % % Non-GAAP operating margin (1) 28 % 28 % Net income $ 155.6 $ 66.5 Stock-based compensation expense 115.8 98.2 Amortization of developed technologies 10.2 7.4 Amortization of purchased intangibles 8.2 9.7 Acquisition-related costs 12.0 1.9 (Gain) loss on strategic investments and dispositions, net (4.7) 16.6 Discrete tax benefit items (55.9) 0.5 Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (12.0) (12.4) Non-GAAP net income $ 229.2 $ 188.4 41 Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 (Unaudited) Diluted net income per share $ 0.70 $ 0.30 Stock-based compensation expense 0.52 0.44 Amortization of developed technologies 0.05 0.03 Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.04 0.04 Acquisition-related costs 0.05 0.01 (Gain) loss on strategic investments and dispositions, net (0.02) 0.08 Discrete tax provision items (0.25) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (0.06) (0.05) Non-GAAP diluted net income per share $ 1.03 $ 0.85 ____________________ (1) Totals may not sum due to rounding. Our non-GAAP financial measures may exclude the following, as applicable: Stock-based compensation expenses. We exclude stock-based compensation expenses from non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning, and forecasting future periods. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions, and the variety of award types that companies can use under FASB ASC Topic 718, we believe excluding stock-based compensation expenses allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangibles. We incur amortization of acquisition-related developed technologies and purchased intangibles in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangibles is inconsistent in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of our acquisitions. Management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges from our cost of revenues to assist in budgeting, planning, and forecasting future periods. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangible assets will recur in future periods. CEO transition costs. We exclude amounts paid to the Companys former CEOs upon departure under the terms of their transition agreements, including severance payments, acceleration of restricted stock units, and continued vesting of performance stock units, and legal fees incurred with the transition. Also excluded from our non-GAAP measures are recruiting costs related to the search for a new CEO. These costs represent non-recurring expenses and are not indicative of our ongoing operating expenses. We further believe that excluding the CEO transition costs from our non-GAAP results is useful to investors in that it allows for period-over-period comparability. Goodwill impairment. This is a non-cash charge to write down goodwill to fair value when there was an indication that the asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning, and forecasting future periods. Restructuring and other exit costs, net. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions or other exit actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, the closure of facilities, and cancellation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing business and operating results. We believe it is useful for investors to understand the effects of these items on our total operating expenses. Acquisition-related costs. We exclude certain acquisition-related costs, including due diligence costs, professional fees in connection with an acquisition, certain financing costs, and certain integration-related expenses. These expenses are unpredictable, and dependent on factors that may be outside of our control and unrelated to the continuing operations of the acquired business or our Company. In addition, the size and complexity of an acquisition, which often drives the magnitude of acquisition-related costs, may not be indicative of such future costs. We believe excluding acquisition-related costs facilitates the comparison of our financial results to the Company's historical operating results and to other companies in our industry. 42 Loss (gain) on strategic investments and dispositions. We exclude gains and losses related to our strategic investments and dispositions of strategic investments, purchased intangibles, and businesses from our non-GAAP measures primarily because management finds it useful to exclude these variable gains and losses on these investments and dispositions in assessing our financial results. Included in these amounts are non-cash unrealized gains and losses on the derivative components, dividends received, realized gains and losses on the sales or losses on the impairment of these investments, and gain and loss on dispositions. We believe excluding these items is useful to investors because these excluded items do not correlate to the underlying performance of our business and these losses or gains were incurred in connection with strategic investments and dispositions which do not occur regularly. Discrete tax provision items. We exclude the GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from the non-GAAP measure of net income (loss), and include a non-GAAP tax provision based upon the projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Discrete tax items include income tax expenses or benefits that do not relate to ordinary income from continuing operations in the current fiscal year, unusual or infrequently occurring items, or the tax impact of certain stock-based compensation. Examples of discrete tax items include, but are not limited to, certain changes in judgment and changes in estimates of tax matters related to prior fiscal years, certain costs related to business combinations, certain changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets, or changes in tax law. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to ongoing operations. We believe the exclusion of these discrete tax items provides investors with useful supplemental information about our operational performance. Establishment (release) of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets. This is a non-cash charge to record or to release a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various cash expenses to assist in budgeting, planning, and forecasting future periods. Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP expenses, primarily due to stock-based compensation, amortization of purchased intangibles, and restructuring charges and other exit costs (benefits) for GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of cash is from the sale of our software and related services. Our primary use of cash is payment of our operating costs, which consist primarily of employee-related expenses, such as compensation and benefits, as well as general operating expenses for marketing, facilities, and overhead costs. Long-term cash requirements for items other than normal operating expenses are anticipated for the following: the acquisition of businesses, software products, or technologies complementary to our business; repayment of debt; common stock repurchases; and capital expenditures, including the purchase and implementation of internal-use software applications. At April 30, 2021, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents totaling $923.2 million and net accounts receivable of $326.1 million. On May 11, 2021, Autodesk announced the acquisition of Upchain Inc., a cloud-based provider of product lifecycle management and product data management systems, for approximately $126.7 million in cash and $13.1 million in Autodesk common stock to be issued at future dates on the first and second anniversaries of the closing date. We funded this acquisition with available cash on hand. See Part I, Item 1, Note 21, Subsequent Events, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. On December 17, 2018, Autodesk entered into a Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) for an unsecured revolving loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $650.0 million, with an option to request increases in the amount of the credit facility by up to an additional $350.0 million. The maturity date on the credit facility is December 2023. At April 30, 2021, Autodesk had no outstanding borrowings on this line of credit. As of June 3, 2021, we have no amounts outstanding under the credit facility. See Part I, Item 1, Note 14, Borrowing Arrangements, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on our covenant requirements. If we are unable to remain in compliance with the covenants under the Credit Agreement, we will not be able to draw on our credit facility. As of April 30, 2021, we have $1.65 billion aggregate principal amount of notes outstanding. See Part I, Item 1, Note 14, Borrowing Arrangements, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 43 Our cash and cash equivalents are held by diversified financial institutions globally. Our primary commercial banking relationship is with Citigroup and its global affiliates. In addition, Citibank N.A., an affiliate of Citigroup, is one of the lead lenders and agent in the syndicate of our $650.0 million line of credit. Our cash and cash equivalents balances are concentrated in a few locations around the world, with substantial amounts held outside of the United States. As of April 30, 2021, approximately 67% of our total cash or cash equivalents are located in foreign jurisdictions and that percentage will fluctuate subject to business needs. There are several factors that can impact our ability to utilize foreign cash balances, such as foreign exchange restrictions, foreign regulatory restrictions, or adverse tax costs. The Tax Act included a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries and generally eliminated U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiary distributions in future periods. As a result, earnings in foreign jurisdictions are generally available for distribution to the United States with little to no incremental U.S. taxes. We regularly review our capital structure and consider a variety of potential financing alternatives and planning strategies to ensure we have the proper liquidity available in the locations in which it is needed. We expect to meet our liquidity needs through or in combination of current cash balances, ongoing cash flows, and external borrowings. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. We currently expect to have sufficient liquidity to manage through the COVID-19 pandemic but we will continue to monitor the impact of potential disruptions beyond our control. Based on our current business plan, planned acquisitions, and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, our anticipated cash flows from operations, and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our revenue, earnings, cash flows, receivables, and payables are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, for which we have put in place foreign currency contracts as part of our risk management strategy. See Part I, Item 3,