ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion in our MD&A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q contains trend analyses and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies, including those discussed in Strategy and Overview of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 and Business Outlook below, anticipated future net revenue, future GAAP and non-GAAP net (loss) income per share, operating margin, operating expenses, billings, annualized recurring revenue, annualized revenue per subscription, other future financial results (by product type and geography) and subscriptions, the effectiveness of our efforts to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, our expectations regarding the continued transition of our business model, our ability to increase our subscription base, expected market trends, including the growth of cloud and mobile computing, the effect of unemployment, the availability of credit, our expectations for our restructuring, the effects of mixed global economic conditions, the effects of revenue recognition, our backlog, expected trends in certain financial metrics, including expenses, the impact of acquisitions and investment activities, expectations regarding our cash needs, the effects of fluctuations in exchange rates and our hedging activities on our financial results, our ability to successfully expand adoption of our products, our ability to gain market acceptance of new businesses and sales initiatives, our ability to successfully increase sales of product suites as part of our overall sales strategy, the impact of economic volatility and geopolitical activities in certain countries, particularly emerging economy countries, and the effects of potential non-cash charges on our financial results and the resulting effect on our financial results. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product capability and acceptance, continuation of our stock repurchase program, remediations to our controls environment, statements regarding our liquidity and short-term and long-term cash requirements, as well as statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as may, believe, could, anticipate, would, might, plan, expect, and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Form 10-Q and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of the factors set forth below in Part II, Item 1A , Risk Factors , and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made, except as required by law. Note: A glossary of terms used in this Form 10-Q appears at the end of this Item 2. Strategy Autodesks vision is to help people imagine, design, and create a better world. We do this by developing software and services for the worlds designers, architects, engineers, digital artists, professionals, and non-professionals alike who design and make the world's places (architecture, engineering, and construction), things (manufacturing), and media (games and digital entertainment). Autodesk was founded during the platform transition from mainframe computers and engineering workstations to personal computers. We developed and sustained a compelling value proposition based upon desktop software for the personal computer. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry over 30 years ago, we believe our industry is undergoing a similar transition from the personal computer to cloud, mobile, and social computing. To address this transition we have accelerated our move to the cloud and mobile devices and are offering more flexible licensing. For example, Autodesk BIM 360, PLM 360, Fusion 360, and AutoCAD 360 Pro, some of our cloud service offerings, provide tools, including mobile and social capabilities, to help streamline design, collaboration, and data management processes. We believe that customer adoption of these new offerings will continue to grow as customers across a range of industries begin to take advantage of the scalable computing power and flexibility provided through these new services. Our strategy is to lead the industries we serve to cloud-based technologies and business models. This entails both a technological shift and a business model shift. We now offer term-based product subscriptions for individual products and suites offerings, cloud service offerings, and flexible enterprise business agreements ("new model subscription offerings"). These offerings are designed to give our customers more flexibility with how they use our products and service offerings and to address new types of customers such as project-based users and small businesses. As part of this transition, we discontinued selling new perpetual licenses of most individual software products effective February 1, 2016, and plan to discontinue selling new perpetual licenses of suites effective August 1, 2016. With the discontinuation of the sale of most perpetual licenses, we are accelerating our transition away from selling a hybrid of perpetual licenses and term-based product subscriptions toward a single subscription model. During the transition, 24 revenue, gross margin, operating margin, earnings (loss) per share, deferred revenue, billings, and cash flow from operations will be impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than up front and as new offerings bring a wider variety of price points. As we progress through the business model transition, billings and reported revenue are less relevant to measure the success of the business as perpetual license sales are discontinued in favor of subscription offerings, which have considerably lower up-front prices. Annualized recurring revenue ("ARR") and subscription additions will better reflect business momentum and provide additional transparency into the transition. To further analyze progress, we will also disaggregate our growth in these metrics between the original maintenance plan model ("maintenance") and the new model subscription offerings. We expect maintenance subscriptions to peak as perpetual license sales end this year, and we expect them to decline slowly over time. Autodesk sells our products and services globally, through a combination of indirect and direct channels. During the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, our indirect channels, which include value added resellers, direct market resellers, distributors, computer manufacturers, and other software developers, were responsible for 75% and 81% of our overall revenue, respectively. During the same periods, our direct channels, which include sales resources dedicated to selling in our largest accounts, our highly specialized products, and business transacted through our company estore, were responsible for 25% and 19% of our overall revenue, respectively. We anticipate that our channel mix will continue to change, particularly as we scale our digitally transacted e-store business and our largest accounts shift towards direct-only business models. Importantly, our indirect channel will continue to transact and support the majority of our revenue as we move beyond the business model transition. We employ a variety of incentive programs and promotions to align our direct and indirect channels with our business strategies. In addition, we have a worldwide user group organization and we have created online user communities dedicated to the exchange of information related to the use of our products. One of our key strategies is to maintain an open-architecture design of our software products to facilitate third-party development of complementary products and industry-specific software solutions. This approach enables customers and third parties to customize solutions for a wide variety of highly specific uses. We offer several programs that provide strategic investment funding, technological platforms, user communities, technical support, forums, and events to developers who develop add-on applications for our products. For example, we have established the Autodesk Spark program to support ideas that push the boundaries of 3D printing and nurture the companies that will advance innovations within 3D printing hardware and software. We have also created the Autodesk Forge program to support innovators that build solutions to facilitate the development of a single connected ecosystem for the future of how things are designed, made, and used. In addition to the competitive advantages afforded by our technology, our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, educators, and students is a key competitive advantage. This network of partners and relationships provides us with a broad and deep reach into volume markets around the world. Our distributor and reseller network is extensive and provides our customers with the resources to purchase, deploy, learn, and support our products quickly and easily. We have a significant number of registered third-party developers who create products that work well with our products and extend them for a variety of specialized applications. Autodesk is committed to helping fuel a lifelong passion for design in students of all ages. We offer free educational licenses of Autodesk software worldwide to students, educators, and educational institutions. Through Autodesk Design Academy, we provide secondary and postsecondary school markets hundreds of standards-aligned class projects to support design-based disciplines in Science, Technology, Engineering, Digital Arts, and Math (STEAM) while using Autodesk's professional-grade 3D design, engineering and entertainment software used in industry. In fiscal 2016, we also made Autodesk Design Academy curricula available on iTunes U. Our intention is to make Autodesk software ubiquitous and the design software of choice for those poised to become the next generation of professional users. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology, and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and may, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology, and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. Our strategy depends upon a number of assumptions to successfully make the transition toward new cloud and mobile platforms, including: the related technology and business model shifts; making our technology available to mainstream markets; leveraging our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, and students; improving the performance and functionality of our products; and adequately protecting our 25 intellectual property. If the outcome of any of these assumptions differs from our expectations, we may not be able to implement our strategy, which could potentially adversely affect our business. For further discussion regarding these and related risks, see Part II , Item 1A , Risk Factors . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on amounts reported in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We regularly reevaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016 . In addition, we highlighted those policies that involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity with further discussion in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K. We believe these policies are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Overview of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 As a % of Net Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 As a % of Net Revenue Net Revenue $ 511.9 100 % $ 646.5 100 % Cost of revenue 92.5 18 % 91.8 14 % Gross Profit 419.4 82 % 554.7 86 % Operating expenses 574.4 112 % 533.2 82 % (Loss) income from operations $ (155.0 ) (30 )% $ 21.5 3 % We are undergoing a business model transition in which we will discontinue selling new perpetual licenses in favor of new model subscriptions. During the transition, revenue, gross margin, operating margin, earnings (loss) per share, deferred revenue, billings, and cash flow from operations will be impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than up front and as new offerings bring a wider variety of price points. During the three months ended April 30, 2016 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, net revenue and gross profit decreased 21% and 24% , respectively, while operating expenses increased 8% . The drivers of these results are discussed below under the heading Results of Operations. Revenue Analysis Net revenue decreased during the three months ended April 30, 2016 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 43% decrease in License and other revenue, partially offset by a 2% increase in subscription revenue. The 43% decrease in License and other revenue was primarily a result of the discontinuation of the sale of most individual perpetual products as of February 1, 2016. The 2% increase in subscription revenue was primarily driven by a 34% increase in revenue from our new model subscription offerings, partially offset by a 1% decrease in maintenance revenue. We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (collectively, Tech Data). Tech Data accounted for 29% of Autodesks total net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , as compared to 26% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 . Our customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of the agreements between Tech Data and us be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. Consequently, we believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech Data. 26 Operating Margin Analysis Income from operations decreased to a $155.0 million loss from operations in the three months ended April 30, 2016 due to a $134.6 million or 21% decrease in net revenue, a $0.7 million or 1% increase in cost of revenue, and a $41.2 million or 8% increase in our operating expenses as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Our operating margin decreased to (30)% for the three months ended April 30, 2016 from 3% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 . The increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by restructuring charges and other facility exit costs during the three months ended April 30, 2016 . The decrease in operating margin was primarily driven by a decrease in revenue and an increase in operating expenses during the three months ended April 30, 2016 , as noted above. Further discussion regarding the cost of goods sold and operating expense activities are discussed below under the heading Results of Operations. Business Model Transition Metrics In order to help better understand our financial performance during and after the transition, we have introduced several new metrics including recurring revenue, total subscriptions, ARR, and annualized revenue per subscription ("ARPS"). ARR and ARPS are performance metrics and should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue as ARR and ARPS are not intended to be combined with those items. Please refer to the Glossary of Terms for further discussion regarding the new metric terminology. Recurring revenue represents the revenue for the period from our traditional maintenance plans and revenue from our new model subscription offerings, including portions of revenue allocated to license & other revenue for those offerings. It excludes subscription revenue related to education offerings, consumer product offerings, select Creative Finishing product offerings, Autodesk Buzzsaw, Autodesk Constructware, and third party products. Recurring revenue acquired with the acquisition of a business is captured and may cause variability in the comparison of this calculation. The following table outlines our recurring revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and April 30, 2015 : Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 $ % April 30, 2015 (in millions) Subscription revenue $ 326.0 $ 6.2 2 % $ 319.8 Add: License and other revenue from new model subscription offerings (1) 40.2 21.4 114 % 18.8 Less: other adjustments (2) (7.3 ) 1.1 (13 )% (8.4 ) Total recurring revenue (3) $ 358.9 $ 28.7 9 % $ 330.2 ____________________ (1) Includes the portion of revenue for new model subscription offerings allocated to license & other revenue within our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. (2) Other adjustments include subscription revenue related to education offerings, select Creative Finishing product offerings, Autodesk Buzzsaw, Autodesk Constructware, and third party products which are excluded from recurring revenue. (3) Total recurring revenue as presented may not recalculate on an annualized basis to total ARR in the next table due to rounding. During the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , recurring revenue was 70% and 51% of total net revenue, respectively. 27 The following table outlines our total subscriptions, ARR and ARPS metrics as of April 30, 2016 and January 31, 2016 : Balances, April 30, 2016 Change compared to prior fiscal year end Balances, January 31, 2016 % (in thousands) Maintenance plan subscriptions 2,143.3 (7.7 ) % 2,151.0 New model subscriptions 566.9 139.7 33 % 427.2 Total subscriptions 2,710.2 132.0 5 % 2,578.2 (in millions) Maintenance plan ARR $ 1,127.6 $ 6.2 1 % $ 1,121.4 New model ARR 308.0 53.0 21 % 255.0 Total ARR $ 1,435.6 $ 59.2 4 % $ 1,376.4 (ARR divided by Subscriptions) Maintenance plan ARPS $ 526 $ 5 1 % $ 521 New Model ARPS 543 (54 ) (9 )% 597 Total ARPS $ 530 $ (4 ) (1 )% $ 534 Total subscriptions increased 5% or 132,000 from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 to 2.71 million as of April 30, 2016 . Maintenance subscriptions decreased 8,000 from the end of fiscal 2016 , primarily as a result of the discontinuation of new perpetual license sales for most individual products at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. New model subscriptions increased 33% as of April 30, 2016 as compared to the end of fiscal 2016 , primarily driven by strong growth in all new model subscription types, led by product subscriptions. ARR increased 4% or $59.2 million from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 to $1,435.6 million as of April 30, 2016 , primarily due to a 21% increase in new model ARR driven by growth in all new model subscription types, led by flexible enterprise business agreements. ARPS decreased 1% from the January 31, 2016 to $530 as of April 30, 2016 . The 1% decrease in total ARPS was primarily due to a 9% decrease in new model ARPS, which decreased as a result of individual product subscriptions leading the growth in new model subscriptions, which are priced lower than our flexible enterprise business agreements. Foreign Currency Analysis We generate a significant amount of our revenue in the U.S., Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, and Canada. Our revenue was negatively impacted by foreign exchange rate changes during the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Had applicable exchange rates from the three months ended April 30, 2015 been in effect during the three months ended April 30, 2016 and had we excluded foreign exchange hedge gains and losses from the three months ended April 30, 2016 , net revenue would have decreased 17% on a constant currency basis during the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Our total spend, defined as cost of revenue plus operating expenses, during the three months ended April 30, 2016 increased 7% , on an as reported basis as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Had applicable exchange rates from the three months ended April 30, 2015 been in effect during the three months ended April 30, 2016 and had we excluded foreign exchange hedge gains and losses from the three months ended April 30, 2016 , total spend would have increased 8% , on a constant currency basis compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may have a significant effect on net revenue, total spend, and income (loss) from operations in future periods. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate effect on a portion of the net revenue of certain anticipated transactions but do not attempt to completely mitigate the impact of fluctuations of such foreign currency against the U.S. dollar. 28 Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items At April 30, 2016 , we had $ 2.8 billion in cash and marketable securities. We completed the three months ended April 30, 2016 with lower accounts receivable and higher deferred revenue balances as compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016 . Our deferred revenue balance at April 30, 2016 was $1.5 billion , which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the life of the contracts. The term of our subscription contracts is typically between one and three years. Our cash flow from operations increased 90% to $ 164.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 compared to $ 86.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 . We repurchased 1.8 million shares of our common stock for $100.1 million during the three months ended April 30, 2016 . Comparatively, we repurchased 1.6 million shares of our common stock for $95.4 million during the three months ended April 30, 2015 . Further discussion regarding the balance sheet and cash flow activities are discussed below under the heading Liquidity and Capital Resources. Business Outlook Autodesk is undergoing a business model transition in which the company will discontinue selling new perpetual licenses in favor of subscriptions and flexible license arrangements. During the transition, revenue, gross margin, operating margin, EPS, deferred revenue, and cash flow from operations will be impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than up front and as new offerings bring a wider variety of price points. Over time, we expect our business model transition to expand our customer base by eliminating higher up-front licensing costs and provide more flexibility in how customers gain access to and pay for our products. In the future, we expect this business model transition will increase our long-term revenue growth rate by increasing total subscriptions, ARR, and customer value over time. In February 2016, we commenced a restructuring plan to reduce headcount by approximately 10% and to consolidate certain facilities around the world in order to accelerate the Companys transition to a subscription-based business model and its move to the cloud. Through the restructuring, we seek to reduce expenses, streamline the organization, and reallocate resources to align more closely with the Companys needs going forward. See further discussion of our restructuring plan in Note 13, Restructuring of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result of these actions, we have incurred and will incur additional costs in the short term that negatively impact our net income and cash flows from operating activities and have the effect of reducing our operating margins. Q2 FY17 Guidance Metrics Q2 FY17 (ending July 31, 2016) Revenue (in millions) $500 - $520 EPS GAAP ($0.73) - ($0.63) EPS non-GAAP (1) ($0.18) - ($0.11) _______________ (1) Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0.26 related to stock-based compensation expense, between $0.12 and $0.09 related to GAAP-only tax charges, $0.09 related to restructuring charges and other facility exit costs, and $0.08 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles. FY17 Guidance Metrics FY17 (ending January 31, 2017) Revenue (in millions) (1) $1,950 - $2,050 GAAP spend growth (cost of revenue plus operating expenses) 3% - 4% Non-GAAP spend growth (cost of revenue plus operating expenses) (2) (1%) - flat EPS GAAP ($3.25) - ($2.87) EPS non-GAAP (3) ($0.95) - ($0.70) Net subscription additions 475,000 - 525,000 _______________ (1) Excluding the impact of foreign currency rates and hedge gains/losses revenue guidance would be $1,995 - $2,095 million. (2) Non-GAAP spend excludes $229 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $88 million related to restructuring charges and other facility exit costs, and $66 million for the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles. (3) Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share excludes $1.02 related to stock-based compensation expense, between $0.59 and $0.46 of GAAP-only tax charges, $0.39 related to restructuring charges and other facility exit costs, and $0.30 for the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles. We remain diligent about managing our spend while making essential investments to drive growth. 29 Results of Operations Net Revenue Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2016 $ % April 30, 2015 Net Revenue: Subscription $ 326.0 $ 6.2 2 % $ 319.8 License and other 185.9 (140.8 ) (43 )% 326.7 $ 511.9 $ (134.6 ) (21 )% $ 646.5 Net Revenue by Operating Segment: Architecture, Engineering and Construction $ 218.9 $ (17.8 ) (8 )% $ 236.7 Manufacturing 158.0 (26.6 ) (14 )% 184.6 Platform Solutions and Emerging Business 100.0 (85.3 ) (46 )% 185.3 Media and Entertainment 35.0 (4.9 ) (12 )% 39.9 $ 511.9 $ (134.6 ) (21 )% $ 646.5 Subscription Revenue Our subscription revenue consists of three components: (1) maintenance revenue from our perpetual software products; (2) maintenance revenue from our term-based product subscriptions and flexible enterprise business agreements; and (3) revenue from our cloud service offerings. Our maintenance plans provide our customers with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance plan, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, and technical support. We recognize maintenance revenue over the term of the agreements, generally between one and three years. Revenue for our cloud service offerings is recognized ratably over the contract term commencing with the date our service is made available to customers and when all other revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied. Subscription revenue increased 2% during the three months ended April 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2015 , primarily due to a 34% increase in new model subscription revenue, partially offset by a 1% decrease in maintenance revenue. The 34% increase in new model subscription revenue was due to a 203% increase in product subscription revenue. The 1% decrease in maintenance revenue was attributable to the business model transition, as we expect maintenance revenue will slowly decline as perpetual license sales end, and customers adopt our new model subscription offerings. Maintenance revenue represented 88% and 91% of subscription revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. New model subscription revenue represented 12% and 9% of subscription revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. License and Other Revenue License and other revenue consists of two components: (1) all forms of product license revenue and (2) other revenue. Product license revenue includes software license revenue from the sale of perpetual licenses, term-based licenses from our product subscriptions and flexible enterprise business agreements, and product revenue for Creative Finishing. Other revenue includes revenue from consulting, training, Autodesk Developers Network and Creative Finishing customer support, and is recognized over time, as the services are performed. License and other revenue decreased 43% during the three months ended April 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2015 . Product license revenue, as a percentage of license and other revenue, was 80% and 89% for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The decrease in product license revenue was due to the business model transition, which led to a 60% decrease in revenue from perpetual licenses as we have discontinued selling perpetual seats of most of our product offerings. This decrease was partially offset by a 96% increase in license revenue from our new model subscription offerings. 30 Other revenue increased 6% during the three months ended April 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2015 . The increase in other revenue was due to an increase in consulting revenue, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from Creative Finishing. Other revenue represented 7% and 5% of total net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, Backlog related to current software license product orders that had not been delivered at the end of the quarter decreased by $24.3 million during the three months ended April 30, 2016 from $31.4 million at January 31, 2016 to $7.1 million at April 30, 2016 . Backlog from current software license product orders that we have not been delivered consists of orders for currently available licensed software products from customers with approved credit status. Net Revenue by Operating Segment We have four reportable segments: AEC, MFG, PSEB, and M&E. We have no material inter-segment revenue. During the business model transition, revenue has been and will be negatively impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than up front and as new product offerings generally have a lower initial purchase price. This broad impact is reflected in the drivers below. During the three months ended April 30, 2016 , net revenue for AEC decreased by 8% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 6% decline in our AEC suites driven by Autodesk Building Design Suite. Partially offsetting the decline in AEC suites revenue was positive growth in our flexible enterprise business agreements which increased 26% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. During the three months ended April 30, 2016 , net revenue for MFG decreased by 14% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to an 18% decline in our MFG suites driven by a decrease in revenue from our Product Design Suites. During the three months ended April 30, 2016 , net revenue for PSEB decreased by 46% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to a 47% decrease in revenue from our AutoCAD and ACAD LT products. As part of the transition to term-based product subscriptions for our individual software products in February 2016, products like AutoCAD and ACAD LT will be negatively impacted when compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year as revenue is recognized ratably rather than up front. During the three months ended April 30, 2016 , net revenue for M&E decreased by 12% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 9% decrease in Animation, which was driven by lower revenue on our 3ds Max product offerings. Net Revenue by Geographic Area (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 As a % of Net Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 As a % of Net Revenue Net Revenue: Americas $ 217.7 43 % $ 244.0 38 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 202.6 40 % 245.4 38 % Asia Pacific 91.6 18 % 157.1 24 % Total Net Revenue $ 511.9 100 % $ 646.5 100 % Net revenue in the Americas geography decreased by 11% on an as reported basis and 10% on a constant currency basis during the three months ended April 30, 2016 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Net revenue in the Americas attributable to the United States was approximately 85% and 82% for three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. International net revenue represented 64% and 69% of our net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net revenue in the Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") geography decreased by 17% on an as reported basis and 11% on a constant currency basis during the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Net revenue in the Asia Pacific ("APAC") geography decreased by 42% on an as reported basis 31 and 39% on a constant currency basis during the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. We believe that international revenue will continue to comprise a majority of our net revenue. Unfavorable economic conditions in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including in emerging economies such as Brazil, Russia, India, and China, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies have significantly affected, and could continue to significantly affect, our financial results for a given period even though we hedge a portion of our current and projected revenue. Weak global economic conditions that have been characterized by restructuring of sovereign debt, high unemployment, and volatility in the financial markets may impact our future financial results. Additionally during the business model transition, revenue has been and will be negatively impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than up front and as new product offerings generally have a lower initial purchase price. This transition has a particular impact to emerging economies as sales of perpetual licenses have historically comprised a greater percentage of total emerging economy sales in comparison to mature markets. Net revenue in emerging economies decreased by 40% on an as reported basis and on a constant currency basis during the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Revenue from emerging economies represented 11% and 14% of net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2016 $ % April 30, 2015 Cost of revenue: Subscription $ 39.7 $ 1.0 3 % $ 38.7 License and other 52.8 (0.3 ) (1 )% 53.1 $ 92.5 $ 0.7 1 % $ 91.8 As a percentage of net revenue 18 % 14 % Cost of subscription revenue includes the labor costs of providing product support to our maintenance and new model subscription customers, including rent and occupancy, shipping and handling costs, professional services fees related to operating our network and cloud infrastructure, depreciation expense and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries, related expenses of network operations, and allocated IT and facilities costs. Cost of subscription revenue increased 3% during the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an increase in cloud and hosting related costs. Cost of license and other revenue includes labor costs associated with product setup and fulfillment and costs of consulting and training services contracts and collaborative project management services contracts. Cost of license and other revenue also includes stock-based compensation expense, direct material and overhead charges, amortization of developed technology, allocated IT and facilities costs, professional services fees and royalties. Direct material and overhead charges include the cost of hardware sold (mainly Ember printers in the PSEB segment), and costs associated with electronic and physical fulfillment. Cost of license and other revenue decreased 1% for the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a decrease in amortization of our developed technology as well as lower employee related costs for our consulting related offerings. Cost of revenue, at least over the near term, is affected by the volume and mix of product sales, mix of physical versus electronic fulfillment, fluctuations in consulting costs, amortization of developed technology, new customer support offerings, royalty rates for licensed technology embedded in our products and employee stock-based compensation expense. We expect cost of revenue to decrease in absolute dollars and remain flat as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2017 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2016 . 32 Marketing and Sales Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2016 $ % April 30, 2015 Marketing and sales $ 242.9 $ (11.0 ) (4 )% $ 253.9 As a percentage of net revenue 47 % 39 % Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our marketing and sales employees, the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and expositions, and various sales and promotional programs. Marketing and sales expenses also include labor costs associated with sales and order management, sales and dealer commissions, rent and occupancy, payment processing fees, the cost of supplies and equipment, and allocated IT and facilities costs. Marketing and sales expenses decreased 4% for the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to lower employee-related costs resulting from the restructuring plan announced in February 2016. We expect marketing and sales expenses to slightly increase in absolute dollars and increase as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2017 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2016 . Research and Development Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2016 $ % April 30, 2015 Research and development $ 195.5 $ 1.0 1 % $ 194.5 As a percentage of net revenue 38 % 30 % Research and development expenses, which are expensed as incurred, consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for research and development employees, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, rent and occupancy, professional services such as fees paid to software development firms and independent contractors, and allocated IT and facilities costs. Research and development expenses increased 1% during the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense as a result of a higher fair market value of awards granted, partially offset by a decrease in professional fees. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2017 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2016 . General and Administrative Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2016 $ % April 30, 2015 General and administrative $ 75.8 $ (0.1 ) % $ 75.9 As a percentage of net revenue 15 % 12 % General and administrative expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our finance, human resources and legal employees, as well as professional fees for legal and accounting services, certain foreign business taxes, gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges, expense of travel, entertainment and training, IT and facilities costs, and the cost of supplies and equipment. 33 General and administrative expenses remained flat during the three months ended April 30, 2016 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to an increase in professional fees, offset by a decrease in facilities costs. We expect general and administrative expenses to slightly increase in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2017 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2016 . Amortization of Purchased Intangibles Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2016 $ % April 30, 2015 Amortization of purchased intangibles $ 7.9 $ (1.0 ) (11 )% $ 8.9 As a percentage of net revenue 2 % 1 % Amortization of purchased intangibles decreased 11% during the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily related to the accumulated effects associated with amortization expense of intangible assets purchased over time. We expect amortization of purchased intangibles to decrease in absolute dollars and remain flat as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2017 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2016 . Restructuring Charges and Other Facility Exit Costs, Net Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2016 $ % April 30, 2015 Restructuring charges and other facility exit costs, net $ 52.3 $ 52.3 * $ As a percentage of net revenue 10 % % ____________________ * Percentage is not meaningful In February 2016, the Board of Directors approved a world-wide restructuring plan (Fiscal 2017 Plan) in order to re-balance staffing levels and reduce operating expenses to better align them with the evolving needs of the Company's business. The Company's Fiscal 2017 Plan consist of employee termination benefits related to the reduction of its workforce of approximately $76.0 million , and lease terminations and other exit costs of approximately $12.0 million . We recorded $52.3 million in restructuring charges and other facility exit costs during the three months ended April 30, 2016 . See Note 13 , Restructuring , in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Interest and Other (Expense) Income, Net The following table sets forth the components of interest and other (expense) income, net: Three Months Ended April 30, (in millions) 2016 2015 Interest and investment expense, net $ (6.5 ) $ (2.0 ) Gain (loss) on foreign currency 1.4 (1.6 ) Gain on strategic investments 0.4 1.0 Other income 1.1 2.9 Interest and other (expense) income, net $ (3.6 ) $ 0.3 Interest and other (expense) income, net decreased 3.9 million in the three months ended April 30, 2016 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to interest expense resulting from the issuance of $ 450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.125% notes due June 15, 2020 and $ 300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% notes due June 15, 2025 . 34 Interest expense and investment income fluctuates based on average cash, marketable securities and debt balances, average maturities and interest rates. Gains and losses on foreign currency are primarily due to the impact of re-measuring foreign currency transactions and net monetary assets into the functional currency of the corresponding entity. The amount of the gain or loss on foreign currency is driven by the volume of foreign currency transactions and the foreign currency exchange rates for the period. Provision for Income Taxes We account for income taxes and the related accounts under the liability method. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the basis differences reverse. Income tax expense was $ 14.4 million and $ 2.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Income tax expense consists primarily of foreign taxes and U.S. tax expense related to indefinite-lived intangibles. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when management cannot conclude that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax asset will be recovered. The valuation allowance is determined by assessing both positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable; such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. Significant judgment is required in determining whether the valuation allowance should be recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results and estimates of future taxable income. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, we considered recent cumulative losses in the United States arising from the Company's business model transition as a significant source of negative evidence. Considering this negative evidence and the absence of sufficient positive objective evidence that we would generate sufficient taxable income in our United States tax jurisdiction to realize the deferred tax assets, we determined that it was not more likely than not that the Company would realize the U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets and recorded a full valuation allowance. As we continually strive to optimize our overall business model, tax planning strategies may become feasible and prudent whereby management may determine that it is more likely than not that the federal and state deferred tax assets will be realized; therefore, we will continue to evaluate the realizability of our net deferred tax assets each quarter, both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, based on all available evidence, both positive and negative. As of April 30, 2016 , we had $254.6 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest, of which approximately $239.9 million represents the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would impact the effective tax rate, if recognized. However, this rate impact would be offset to the extent that recognition of unrecognized tax benefits currently presented as a reduction of deferred tax assets would increase the valuation allowance. It is possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change in the next twelve months; however, an estimate of the range of the possible change cannot be made at this time. Our future effective tax rate may be materially impacted by the amount of benefits and charges from tax amounts associated with our foreign earnings that are taxed at rates different from the federal statutory rate, research credits, state income taxes, the tax impact of stock-based compensation, accounting for uncertain tax positions, business combinations, U.S. Manufacturer's deduction, closure of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits, changes in valuation allowances and changes in tax laws including possible U.S. tax law changes that, if enacted, could significantly impact how U.S. multinational companies are taxed on foreign subsidiary earnings. A significant amount of our earnings is generated by our Europe and APAC subsidiaries. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates or we repatriate certain foreign earnings on which U.S. taxes have not previously been provided. We are currently the subject of a tax audit in China covering certain transfer pricing matters from 2004-2013. On May 12, 2016, the China Tax Authority (the "CTA") provided an outline of the CTA's current position, but no adjustment has been proposed. We are currently evaluating that information and believe it is reasonably possible that a future settlement could result in a material tax charge. However, an estimate of the possible tax charge cannot be made based on information available at the balance sheet date. 35 Other Financial Information In addition to our results determined under GAAP discussed above, we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance. For the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , our gross profit, gross margin, income (loss) from operations, operating margin, net income (loss), diluted net income (loss) per share and diluted shares used in per share calculation on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis were as follows (in millions except for gross margin, operating margin, and per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 419.4 $ 554.7 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 433.8 $ 571.1 Gross margin 82 % 86 % Non-GAAP gross margin 85 % 88 % (Loss) income from operations $ (155.0 ) $ 21.5 Non-GAAP (loss) income from operations $ (27.0 ) $ 94.1 Operating margin (30 )% 3 % Non-GAAP operating margin (5 )% 15 % Net (loss) income $ (173.0 ) $ 19.1 Non-GAAP net (loss) income $ (23.0 ) $ 69.1 GAAP diluted net (loss) income per share (1) $ (0.77 ) $ 0.08 Non-GAAP diluted net (loss) income per share (1) $ (0.10 ) $ 0.30 GAAP diluted shares used in per share calculation 224.4 231.7 Non-GAAP diluted weighted average shares used in per share calculation 224.4 231.7 _______________ (1) Net (loss) income per share was computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the net (loss) income per share amount for the quarters may not equal the total for the year. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons, we use non-GAAP measures to supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis. These non-GAAP measures do not include certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. We also use non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe those measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our earning potential and performance for management by excluding certain expenses and charges that may not be indicative of our core business operating results. For the reasons set forth below, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. This allows investors and others to better understand and evaluate our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as management, compare financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies and to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. We also use some of these measures for purposes of determining company-wide incentive compensation. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures included above are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which charges are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our public disclosures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is meant to be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from, the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 36 Reconciliation of GAAP Financial Measures to Non-GAAP Financial Measures (In millions except for gross margin, operating margin, and per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 419.4 $ 554.7 Stock-based compensation expense 3.5 2.9 Amortization of developed technologies 10.9 13.5 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 433.8 $ 571.1 Gross margin 82 % 86 % Stock-based compensation expense 1 % % Amortization of developed technologies 2 % 2 % Non-GAAP gross margin 85 % 88 % (Loss) income from operations $ (155.0 ) $ 21.5 Stock-based compensation expense 56.9 50.2 Amortization of developed technologies 10.9 13.5 Amortization of purchased intangibles 7.9 8.9 Restructuring charges and other facility exit costs, net 52.3 Non-GAAP (loss) income from operations $ (27.0 ) $ 94.1 Operating margin (30 )% 3 % Stock-based compensation expense 11 % 8 % Amortization of developed technologies 2 % 2 % Amortization of purchased intangibles 2 % 2 % Restructuring charges and other facility exit costs, net 10 % % Non-GAAP operating margin (5 )% 15 % Net (loss) income $ (173.0 ) $ 19.1 Stock-based compensation expense 56.9 50.2 Amortization of developed technologies 10.9 13.5 Amortization of purchased intangibles 7.9 8.9 Restructuring charges and other facility exit costs, net 52.3 Gain on strategic investments (0.5 ) (1.0 ) Discrete tax (provision) items (1.9 ) (3.1 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments 24.4 (18.5 ) Non-GAAP net (loss) income $ (23.0 ) $ 69.1 37 Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 (Unaudited) GAAP diluted net (loss) income per share (1) $ (0.77 ) $ 0.08 Stock-based compensation expense 0.25 0.21 Amortization of developed technologies 0.05 0.06 Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.04 0.04 Restructuring charges and other facility exit costs, net 0.23 Gain on strategic investments Discrete tax (provision) items (0.01 ) (0.01 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments 0.11 (0.08 ) Non-GAAP diluted net (loss) income per share (1) $ (0.10 ) $ 0.30 GAAP diluted shares used in per share calculation 224.4 231.7 Shares included in non-GAAP net income per share, but excluded from GAAP net loss per share as they would have been anti-dilutive Non-GAAP Diluted weighted average shares used in per share calculation 224.4 231.7 ____________________ (1) Net (loss) income per share was computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the net (loss) income per share amount for the quarters may not equal the total for the year. Our non-GAAP financial measures may exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expenses. We exclude stock-based compensation expenses from non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use under FASB ASC Topic 718, we believe excluding stock-based compensation expenses allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangibles. We incur amortization of acquisition-related developed technology and purchased intangibles in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangibles is inconsistent in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of our acquisitions. Management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges from our cost of revenues to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangible assets will recur in future periods. Goodwill impairment. This is a non-cash charge to write-down goodwill to fair value when there was an indication that the asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Restructuring charges and other facility exit costs (benefits), net. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions or other exit actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, the closure of facilities and cancellation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing business and operating results. We believe it is useful for investors to understand the effects of these items on our total operating expenses. Loss (gain) on strategic investments. We exclude gains and losses related to our strategic investments from our non-GAAP measures primarily because management finds it useful to exclude these variable gains and losses on these investments in assessing our financial results. Included in these amounts are non-cash unrealized gains and losses on the derivative components, realized gains and losses on the sales or losses on the impairment of these investments. We believe excluding these items is useful to investors because these excluded items do not correlate to the underlying performance of our business and these losses or gains were incurred in connection with strategic investments which do not occur regularly. 38 Establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets. This is a non-cash charge to record a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various cash expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Discrete tax items. We exclude the GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from the non-GAAP measure of income, and include a non-GAAP tax provision based upon the projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Discrete tax items include income tax expenses or benefits that do not relate to ordinary income from continuing operations in the current fiscal year, unusual or infrequently occurring items, or the tax impact of certain stock-based compensation. Examples of discrete tax items include, but are not limited to, certain changes in judgment and changes in estimates of tax matters related to prior fiscal years, certain costs related to business combinations, certain changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets or changes in tax law. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to ongoing operations. We believe the exclusion of these discrete tax items provides investors with useful supplemental information about our operational performance. Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP expenses, primarily due to stock-based compensation, amortization of purchased intangibles and restructuring charges and other facilities exit costs (benefits) for GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of cash is from the sale of our term-based product licenses. Our primary use of cash is payment of our operating costs, which consist primarily of employee-related expenses, such as compensation and benefits, as well as general operating expenses for marketing, facilities and overhead costs. In addition to operating expenses, we also use cash to fund our stock repurchase program and invest in our growth initiatives, which include acquisitions of products, technology and businesses. See further discussion of these items below. At April 30, 2016 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $2.8 billion and net accounts receivable of $256.4 million . In June 2015, we issued $ 450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.125% notes due June 15, 2020 and $ 300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% notes due June 15, 2025 . In December 2012, we issued $ 400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.95% notes due December 15, 2017 and $ 350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.6% notes due December 15, 2022 (all four series of notes collectively, the Notes). As of June 6, 2016 , we have $ 1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of Notes outstanding. In addition, we have a line of credit facility that permits unsecured short-term borrowings of up to $ 400.0 million with a May 2020 maturity date. As of June 6, 2016 , we have no amounts outstanding under the credit facility. Borrowings under the credit facility and the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes are available for general corporate purposes. Our cash and cash equivalents are held by diversified financial institutions globally. Our primary commercial banking relationship is with Citigroup and its global affiliates. In addition, Citibank N.A., an affiliate of Citigroup, is one of the lead lenders and agent in the syndicate of our $400.0 million line of credit. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities remained flat at $2.8 billion as of April 30, 2016 as compared to January 31, 2016 primarily as a result of cash generated from operations offset by cash used for repurchases of our common stock (net of stock issuance proceeds), acquisitions including business combinations and technology purchases, and capital expenditures. The cash proceeds from issuance of common stock vary based on our stock price, stock option exercise activity and the volume of employee purchases under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The primary source of net cash provided by operating activities of $164.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 was cash flow provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $176.3 million . The primary working capital source of cash was a decrease in accounts receivable. The primary working capital uses of cash were decreases in accrued compensation and other accrued liabilities. Our days sales outstanding in trade receivables was 46 at April 30, 2016 compared to 92 at January 31, 2016 . The days sales outstanding decrease relates primarily to a seasonal decline in maintenance billings and improved billings linearity. At April 30, 2016 , our short-term investment portfolio had an estimated fair value of $1,043.9 million and a cost basis of $1,042.3 million . The portfolio fair value consisted of $369.8 million invested in corporate bonds, $262.4 million invested in certificates of deposit, $156.7 million invested in commercial paper, $124.8 million invested in U.S. government securities, 39 $42.3 million invested in agency bonds, $24.0 million invested in sovereign debt, $11.1 million invested in asset backed securities, and $ 9.6 million invested in municipal bonds. At April 30, 2016 , $43.2 million of trading securities were invested in a defined set of mutual funds as directed by the participants in our Deferred Compensation Plan (see Note 10 , Deferred Compensation , in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). Long-term cash requirements for items other than normal operating expenses are anticipated for the following: common stock repurchases; the acquisition of businesses, software products, or technologies complementary to our business; and capital expenditures, including the purchase and implementation of internal-use software applications. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. Our decision to acquire businesses or technology is dependent on our business needs, the availability of suitable sellers and technology, and our own financial condition. As of April 30, 2016 , there have been no material changes in our contractual obligations or commercial commitments compared to those we disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016 . Our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances are concentrated in a few locations around the world, with substantial amounts held outside of the U.S. As of April 30, 2016 , approximately 79% of our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are located offshore and will fluctuate subject to business needs. Certain amounts held outside the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. (subject to local law restrictions), but under current U.S. tax law, could be subject to U.S. income taxes less applicable foreign tax credits. We have provided for the U.S. income tax liability on foreign earnings, except for foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside the U.S. Our intent is that amounts related to foreign earnings permanently reinvested outside the U.S. will remain outside the U.S. and we will meet our U.S. liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. We regularly review our capital structure and consider a variety of potential financing alternatives and planning strategies to ensure we have the proper liquidity available in the locations in which it is needed and to fund our existing stock buyback program with cash that has not been permanently reinvested outside the U.S. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors . However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our revenue, earnings, cash flows, receivables and payables are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, for which we have put in place foreign currency contracts as part of our risk management strategy. See Part I, Item 3,