ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion in our MD&A contains trend analyses and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies, the statements in Strategy below, anticipated future net revenue, future operating margin and other future financial results (by product and geography) and operating expenses, our backlog, expected trends in certain financial metrics, the impact of acquisitions and investment activities, the effect of fluctuations in exchange rates and our hedging activities on our financial results, the impact of natural disasters on our operations and financial results, our ability to successfully expand adoption of our products, and our ability to successfully increase sales of product suites as part of our overall sales strategy. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product acceptance, continuation of our stock repurchase program, statements regarding our liquidity and short-term and long-term cash requirements, as well as, statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as may, believe, could, anticipate, would, might, plan, expect, and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Form 10-Q and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of the factors set forth below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made. Note: A glossary of terms used in this Form 10-Q appears at the end of this Item 2. Strategy Autodesks vision is to help people imagine, design and create a better world. We do this by developing software for the worlds designers, architects, engineers, and digital artiststhe people who create products, buildings, infrastructure, films, and games. Autodesk serves customers in three primary markets: architecture, engineering and construction; manufacturing; and digital media and entertainment. Our goal is to provide our customers with the worlds most valuable, innovative, and engaging software and services. Our product and services portfolio allows our customers to digitally visualize, simulate, and analyze their projects, helping them to better understand the consequences of their design decisions; save time, money, and resources; and become more innovative. Today, complex challenges such as globalization, urbanization and sustainable design are driving our customers to new levels of performance and competitiveness, and we are committed to helping them address those challenges and take advantage of new opportunities. To achieve these goals, we are capitalizing on two of our strongest competitive advantages: our ability to bring advanced technology to mainstream markets, and the breadth and depth of our product portfolio. By innovating in existing technology categories, we bring powerful new design capabilities to volume markets. Our products are designed to be easy-to-learn and use, and to provide customers with a low cost of deployment, a low total cost of ownership, and a rapid return on investment. In addition, our software architecture allows for extensibility and integration with other products. The breadth of our technology and product line gives us a unique competitive advantage because it allows our customers to address a wide variety of problems in ways that transcend industry and disciplinary boundaries. This is particularly important in helping our customers address the complex challenges mentioned above. We also believe that our technological leadership and global brand recognition have positioned us well for long-term growth and industry leadership. In addition to the competitive advantages afforded by our technology, our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, faculty and students is a key competitive advantage. This network of relationships provides us with a broad and deep reach into volume markets around the world. Our distributor and reseller network is extensive and provides our customers with the resources to purchase, deploy, learn and support our products quickly and easily. We have a significant number of registered third-party developers who create products that work well with Autodesk products and extend them for a variety of specialized applications. Users with expertise in our products are broadly and globally available from educational institutions and in the existing workforce. We offer extensive educational programs, including student versions of software, curricula and faculty development. We have an extensive global community of students who are experienced with our software and poised to become the next generation of professional usersthus reducing the cost of training and providing new talent for our customers. Our global network of distributors, resellers, third party developers, customers, educational institutions and students has been developed over our twenty-eight year history. We believe it is an enduring competitive advantage that is difficult for others to replicate. Our growth strategy includes continually increasing the business value of our design tools to our customers in a number of ways. First, we seek to address an increasing portion of our customers workflow with products that extend the value of our 26 Table of Contents customers digital design information into visualization, analysis and simulation. Second, we extend our customers workflow with products for adjacent users and for the customers of our customers, thus increasing the value of the design information our customers produce. Third, we seek to improve our product interoperability and usability, thus improving our customers productivity and effectiveness. Fourth, we develop new ways to deliver capability and value to our customers, such as product suites, software-as-a-service, and delivery of our solutions on mobile devices and new hardware platforms. Notably, in April 2011, we released English language versions of our Autodesk Design Suite, Autodesk Factory Design Suite, Autodesk Product Design Suite, Autodesk Building Design Suite and Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite, as well as a Japanese language version of our Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite. Finally, we have developed a new line of consumer products for the Web, iPad, and mobile devices that provide our advanced visualization technologies to consumersa whole new category of Autodesk customer. We believe that expanding our design product customers portfolios to include our suites presents a meaningful growth opportunity and is an important part of our overall strategy. For the three months ended April 30, 2011, revenue from suites increased 17%, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, and as a percentage of revenue increased to 23% in the three months ended April 30, 2011 as compared to 22% in the three months ended April 30, 2010. We believe that the adoption of design products and suites by our customers in all industries will increase their productivity and the value of their design data. Expanding our geographic coverage is another key element of our growth strategy. While emerging markets are important for many global businesses, we believe they hold special opportunity for Autodesk. Much of the growth in the worlds construction and manufacturing is happening in emerging markets. Further, emerging markets face many of the challenges that our design technology can help address, for example infrastructure build-out. We believe that emerging economies continue to present long-term growth opportunities for us and revenue from emerging countries increased 13% during the three months ended April 30, 2011 as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from emerging countries represented 15% of net revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2011 and 14% during the three months ended April 30, 2010. While we believe there are long-term growth opportunities in emerging economies, conducting business in these countries presents significant challenges, including economic volatility, geopolitical risk, local competition, intellectual property protection, poorly developed business infrastructure, scarcity of talent and software piracy. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and may, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will acquire products, technology and businesses as compelling opportunities that promote our strategy become available. We anticipate that the pace at which we make such investments will increase in comparison to fiscal 2011 but remain informed by and dependent on our business needs, the availability of suitable sellers and technology and our own financial condition. Our strategy depends upon a number of assumptions, including that we will be able to continue making our technology available to mainstream markets; leverage our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, and students; improve the performance and functionality of our products; and adequately protect our intellectual property. If the outcome of any of these assumptions differs from our expectations, we may not be able to implement our strategy, which could potentially adversely affect our business. For further discussion regarding these and related risks see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on amounts reported in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We regularly reevaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011 (the 2011 Form 10-K). In addition, we highlighted those policies that involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity with further discussion of these judgmental areas in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the 2011 Form 10-K. We believe these policies are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Updates on the relevant periodic financial disclosures related to these policies are provided below. Goodwill. As of April 30, 2011, a hypothetical 10% decrease in the fair value of our reporting units would not have an impact on the carrying value of goodwill, nor result in impairment of goodwill. For further discussion see Note 12, Goodwill, in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 27 Table of Contents Income Taxes. We currently have $141.8 million of net deferred tax assets, primarily a result of tax credits, net operating losses, and timing differences for reserves, accrued liabilities, stock options, purchased technologies and capitalized intangibles, partially offset by the establishment of U.S. deferred tax liabilities on unremitted earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries, deferred tax liabilities associated with tax method change on advanced payments and valuation allowances against California and Canadian deferred tax assets. We perform a quarterly assessment of the recoverability of these net deferred tax assets and believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions to realize the net deferred tax assets. Our judgments regarding future profitability may change due to future market conditions and other factors. Any change in future profitability may require material adjustments to these net deferred tax assets, resulting in a reduction in net income in the period when such determination is made. Overview of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2011 (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2011 As a % of Net Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 As a % of Net Revenue Net Revenue $ 528.3 100 % $ 474.6 100 % Cost of revenue 54.6 10 % 51.3 11 % Gross Profit 473.7 90 % 423.3 89 % Operating expenses 395.1 75 % 372.5 78 % Income from Operations $ 78.6 15 % $ 50.8 11 % Our business grew year over year as evidenced by our increases in revenue, gross profit and income from operations. Contributing to the year over year increases in revenue were increases in revenue from new seat licenses, maintenance revenue, revenue for most of our major products, all of our reportable segments, and all of our geographic areas during three months ended April 30, 2011 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. The reasons for these increases are discussed below under the heading Results of Operations. In addition, we continued to control our operating costs, which led to year over year improvements in profitability. The 55% increase in income from operations in the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, was due to the increase in our net revenue, while holding the growth of operating expenses. The majority of our costs are relatively fixed in the short term as they relate primarily to our workforce. Our total operating margin increased from $50.8 million, or 11% of revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2010 to $78.6 million, or 15% of revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2011. The increase in our operating margin was primarily because net revenue increased at a faster rate than the increase in our costs due to proportionally less spending per revenue dollar earned. Net revenue increased $53.7 million or 11% for the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, while our operating expenses increased $22.6 million, or 6% for the three months ended April 30, 2011. The 6% increase in operating expenses in the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2010 was due to an increase in salaries and benefits due to increased headcount and the return of employee costs which were temporarily suppressed in the prior year such as salary reductions, employee incentives and mandatory vacation, and other costs associated with higher revenue. These increases were partially offset by the decrease in restructuring charges of $7.1 million. We generate a majority of our revenue in the U.S., Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom and France. Included in the overall increase in revenue were impacts associated with foreign currency. Our revenue benefited from foreign exchange rate changes during the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Had applicable exchange rates from the three months ended April 30, 2010 been in effect during the three months ended April 30, 2011 and had we excluded foreign exchange hedge gains and losses from the three months ended April 30, 2011, (on a constant currency basis), net revenue would have increased 11% compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. During the three months ended April 30, 2011, total spend, defined as cost of revenue plus operating expenses, increased 6% compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year as reported and increased 4% on a constant currency basis. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may have a significant effect on net revenue, total spend and income from operations in future periods. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate effect on a portion of the net revenue of certain anticipated transactions, but do not attempt to completely mitigate the impact of fluctuation of such foreign currency against the U.S. dollar. We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (collectively, Tech Data). Tech Data accounted for 17% of our consolidated net revenue during both the three months ended April 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech 28 Table of Contents Data. Our actual customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of the agreements between us and Tech Data be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. Our primary goals for the remainder of fiscal 2012 are to grow revenue and improve operating margin percentage by delivering our market-leading products and solutions to our customers and investing in product functionality and new product lines, including suites offerings. However, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our financial goals and improve our financial results. At the beginning of fiscal 2012, we introduced new classifications of our product categories: flagship, suites and new and adjacent products (see the glossary of terms at the end of this Item 2 for a description of these product classifications). These new categories replace our old product categories: 2D horizontal, 2D vertical and 3D model-based solutions. Revenue from flagship products was 61% of total revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2011, and increased 10%, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Revenue from suites was 23% of total revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2011, and increased 17% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. During the three months ended April 2011, we released our new design and creation suites that include English language versions of our Autodesk Design Suite, Autodesk Factory Design Suite, Autodesk Product Design Suite, Autodesk Building Design Suite and Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite, as well as a Japanese language version of our Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite. Suites revenue and growth rate are comprised primarily of revenue from our pre-existing suite families, such as Inventor and Revit suites. Revenue from new and adjacent products was 15% of total revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2011 and increased 9% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. At April 30, 2011, we had $1,525.7 million in cash and marketable securities. We completed the quarter ended April 30, 2011 with a higher deferred revenue balance and a lower accounts receivable balance as compared to the quarter ended January 31, 2011. Our deferred revenue balance at April 30, 2011 included $543.0 million related to customer maintenance contracts, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the life of the contracts. Our maintenance contracts are for a term of predominantly one year, but may be two or three years, or occasionally as long as five year terms. We repurchased 1.7 million shares of our common stock for $68.6 million during the three months ended April 30, 2011. Comparatively, we repurchased 2.0 million shares of our common stock for $58.8 million during the three months ended April 30, 2010. Results of Operations Net Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2011 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 (in millions) $ % Net Revenue: License and other $ 323.0 $ 43.2 15 % $ 279.8 Maintenance 205.3 10.5 5 % 194.8 $ 528.3 $ 53.7 11 % $ 474.6 Net Revenue by Geographic Area: Americas $ 181.4 $ 20.2 13 % $ 161.2 Europe, Middle East and Africa 215.0 16.4 8 % 198.6 Asia Pacific 131.9 17.1 15 % 114.8 $ 528.3 $ 53.7 11 % $ 474.6 Net Revenue by Operating Segment: Platform Solutions and Emerging Business $ 210.5 $ 26.7 15 % $ 183.8 Architecture, Engineering and Construction 141.4 4.6 3 % 136.8 Manufacturing 123.2 15.3 14 % 107.9 Media and Entertainment 53.2 7.1 15 % 46.1 $ 528.3 $ 53.7 11 % $ 474.6 29 Table of Contents License and Other Revenue License and other revenue is comprised of two components: all forms of product license revenue and other revenue. Product license revenue includes revenue from the sale of new seat licenses, upgrades and crossgrades. Other revenue consists of revenue from Creative Finishing, consulting and training services and collaborative project management services. Total license and other revenue increased 15% during the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2010. License and other revenue from flagship products increased 15%, license and other revenue from suites products increased 23%, and license and other revenue from new and adjacent products increased 9%, each as compared to the three months in the prior fiscal year. These increases were primarily due to the 23% increase in commercial new seat revenue during the three months as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. During the three months ended April 30, 2011, 16 percentage points of the 23% increase was due to the increase in the number of seats sold, and 7 percentage points was due to higher average net revenue per seat. Commercial new seat revenue, as a percentage of license and other revenue, was 67% and 63% for three months ended April 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Also contributing to the increase in license and other revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, was the 4% increase in upgrade revenue, which includes crossgrade revenue. Upgrade revenue was higher during the three months ended April 30, 2011 primarily due to an ACAD LT upgrade promotion during the three months ended April 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2010. Revenue from the sales of our services, training and support, included in License and other revenue, represented less than 3% of net revenue for all periods presented. Maintenance Revenue Our maintenance revenue relates to a program known by our user community as the Subscription Program. Our maintenance program provides our commercial and educational customers with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance program, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, downloadable training courses and online support. We recognize maintenance revenue ratably over the maintenance contract periods. Maintenance revenue increased 5% during the three months ended April 30 2011, as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2010, primarily due to a 5% increase in commercial maintenance revenue. Total subscription program enrollment at April 30, 2011 and January 31, 2011 consisted of about 3.0 million users and 2.9 million users, respectively. The 5% increase in commercial maintenance revenue was due to an 8 percentage point increase from commercial enrollment during the corresponding maintenance contract term offset by a 3 percentage point decrease from net revenue per maintenance seat. Commercial maintenance revenue represented 98% of maintenance revenue for both the three months ended April 30, 2011 and 2010. Changes in maintenance revenue lag changes in net billings for maintenance contracts because we recognize the revenue from those contracts ratably over their contract terms. Our maintenance contracts are for a term of predominantly one year, but may be two or three years, or occasionally as long as five year terms. Net maintenance billings increased 7% during the three months ended April 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2010. This increase was due to an increase in renewals, more new seats sold and the impact from the upgrade promotion mentioned above in License and Other Revenue. Aggregate backlog at April 30, 2011 and January 31, 2011, was $647.4 million and $615.4 million, respectively, of which $622.4 million and $587.9 million, respectively, represented deferred revenue. Backlog related to current software license product orders that had not shipped at the end of the quarter decreased by $2.5 million during the three months ended April 30, 2011 from $27.5 million at January 31, 2011 to $25.0 million at April 30, 2011. Deferred revenue consists primarily of deferred maintenance revenue. To a lesser extent, deferred revenue consists of deferred license and other revenue derived from collaborative project management services, consulting services and deferred license sales. Backlog from current software license product orders that we have not yet shipped consists of orders for currently available licensed software products from customers with approved credit status and may include orders with current ship dates and orders with ship dates beyond the current fiscal period. Net Revenue by Geographic Area Net revenue in the Americas geography increased by 13% during the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily due to a 26% increase in revenue from new seats in the Americas during the three months ended April 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2010. Maintenance revenue increased 8% during the three months ended April 30, 2011 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Net revenue in the EMEA geography increased by 8%, or 10% on a constant currency basis, during the three months ended April 30, 2011 as compared to the same period in the prior period. The increase was primarily due to a 24% increase in new seat revenue partially offset by a 26% decrease in revenue from crossgrades. The increase in our revenue in that geography was led by the United Kingdom, Denmark and Belgium. 30 Table of Contents Net revenue in the APAC geography increased by 15%, or 11% on a constant currency basis, during the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to a 14% increase in new seat revenue and a 19% increase in maintenance revenue. Net revenue expansion in the APAC geography during the three months ended April 30, 2011 was led by Japan and followed by South Korea and Australia. Net revenue in emerging economies increased 13% during the three months ended April 30, 2011 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to revenue from the Russian Federation, Brazil and India. This growth was a significant factor in our international sales growth during the three months ended April 30, 2011. Revenue from emerging economies represented 15% and 14% of net revenue for the three month ended April 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. International net revenue represented 73% of our net revenue for both the three months ended April 30, 2011 and 2010. We believe that international revenue will continue to comprise a majority of our total net revenue. The economic conditions in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. Net revenue from Japan was $60.7 million, or approximately 11% of our net revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2011. Although we believe the impact of the earthquakes and tsunami that struck Japan in March 2011 on our future financial results will be immaterial, the events have created an element of uncertainty on our future financial results. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies have significantly affected, and could continue to significantly affect, our financial results for a given period even though we hedge a portion of our current and projected revenue. Net Revenue by Operating Segment We have four reportable segments: Platform Solutions and Emerging Business (PSEB), Architecture, Engineering and Construction (AEC), Manufacturing (MFG) and Media and Entertainment (M&E). We have no material inter-segment revenue. Net revenue for PSEB, which includes our Autodesk Design Suite, increased 15% during the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 25% increase in revenue from our AutoCAD LT products. Net revenue for AEC increased 3% during the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 19% increase in revenue from our Revit family of products, which includes our Autodesk Building Design Suite, and a 19% increase in revenue from our Navisworks products, offset by a 16% decrease in revenue from our ACAD Architecture products. Net revenue for MFG increased 14% during the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an 8% increase in revenue from our Autodesk Inventor family products, which includes our Autodesk Product Design Suite, and a 15% increase in our AutoCAD Mechanical products. Net revenue for M&E increased 15% during the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 19% increase in revenue from our Animation product group, which includes our Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite, and a 7% increase in revenue from Creative Finishing. The increase in Animation revenue was primarily due to a 34% increase in revenue from Autodesk Maya. 31 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2011 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 (in millions) $ % Cost of revenue: License and other $ 42.6 $ 1.4 3 % $ 41.2 Maintenance 12.0 1.9 19 % 10.1 $ 54.6 $ 3.3 6 % $ 51.3 As a percentage of net revenue 10 % 11 % Cost of license and other revenue includes labor costs of order fulfillment and costs of fulfilling consulting and training services contracts and collaborative project management services contracts. Cost of license and other revenue also includes stock-based compensation expense, direct material and overhead charges, amortization of purchased technology, professional services fees and royalties. Direct material and overhead charges include the cost of hardware sold (mainly PC-based workstations for Creative Finishing in the M&E segment), costs associated with transferring our software to electronic media, printing of user manuals and packaging materials and shipping and handling costs. Cost of license and other revenue increased 3% during the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increased royalty costs. Cost of maintenance revenue includes labor costs of providing product support to our maintenance customers, including stock-based compensation expense for these employees, rent and occupancy, shipping and handling costs and professional services fees. Cost of maintenance revenue increased 19% during the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, due to an increased annual fulfillment costs related to supplying USB flash drives of our suites product along with a slight increase in maintenance support headcount. Cost of revenue, at least over the near term, is affected by the volume and mix of product sales, mix of physical versus electronic fulfillment, fluctuations in consulting costs, amortization of purchased technology, new customer support offerings, royalty rates for licensed technology embedded in our products and employee stock-based compensation expense. We expect cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars, but to remain relatively consistent as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Marketing and Sales Three Months Ended April 30, 2011 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 (in millions) $ % Marketing and sales $ 201.9 $ 15.4 8 % $ 186.5 As a percentage of net revenue 38 % 39 % Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our marketing and sales employees, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, and the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and expositions, and various sales and promotional programs. Marketing and sales expenses also include labor costs of sales and order processing, sales and dealer commissions, rent and occupancy, and the cost of supplies and equipment. Marketing and sales expenses increased 8% during the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to higher employee-related costs related to salaries and fringe benefits primarily associated with increased head count and an increase in advertising expenses. We expect marketing and sales expense to increase in absolute dollars, but to remain relatively consistent as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2011. 32 Table of Contents Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, 2011 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 (in millions) $ % Research and development $ 136.6 $ 9.4 7 % $ 127.2 As a percentage of net revenue 26 % 27 % Research and development expenses, which are expensed as incurred, consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for research and development employees, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, rent and occupancy, professional services such as fees paid to software development firms and independent contractors. Research and development expenses increased 7% during the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an increase in salaries, benefits and bonuses. We expect research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars, but to remain relatively consistent as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2011. General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, 2011 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 (in millions) $ % General and administrative $ 56.6 $ 4.9 9 % $ 51.7 As a percentage of net revenue 11 % 11 % General and administrative expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our finance, human resources and legal employees, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel as well as professional fees for legal and accounting services, amortization of acquisition related customer relationships and trade names, expense of communication and the cost of supplies and equipment. General and administrative expenses increased 9% from the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an increase in bonuses and benefits. We expect general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars, but to remain relatively consistent as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Restructuring Charges Three Months Ended April 30, 2011 Decrease compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 (in millions) $ % Restructuring $ $ (7.1 ) -100 % $ 7.1 As a percentage of net revenue 0 % 1 % In connection with our restructuring plans, during the three months ended April 30, 2011, we did not record restructuring charges. During the three months April 30, 2010, we reduced the number of employees by approximately 120 positions globally and recorded restructuring charges of $7.1 million, which related to one-time employee termination benefits. See Note 14, Restructuring Reserve, in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 33 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table sets forth the components of interest and other income (expense), net: Three Months Ended April 30, (in millions) 2011 2010 Interest and investment income, net $ 3.1 $ 3.5 Gain (loss) on foreign currency 0.7 (7.2 ) Other income 2.1 0.3 Interest and other income (expense), net $ 5.9 $ (3.4 ) Interest and other income (expense), net, increased $9.3 million during the three months ended April 30, 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to gains and losses on foreign currency. The gain on foreign currency in the three months ended April 30, 2011 is primarily due to the impact of re-measuring foreign currency transactions into the functional currency of the corresponding entity, in addition to the gain on foreign currency derivatives not designated as hedging instruments. Provision for Income Taxes We account for income taxes and the related accounts under the liability method. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities, using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the basis differences reverse. Our effective tax rate was 18% and 22% during the three months ended April 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our effective tax rate decreased 4 percentage points from April 30, 2011 and 2010 primarily due to a decrease in non-deductible stock-based compensation expense and an increase in tax benefits in fiscal 2012 from foreign earnings taxed at lower rates in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. Excluding the impact of discrete tax benefits of $4.1 million associated with stock-based compensation, the effective tax rate for the three months ended April 30, 2011 was 23% and was lower than the Federal statutory tax rate of 35% primarily due to foreign income taxed at lower rates and U.S. research and development credits partially offset by the impact of non-deductible stock-based compensation expense. Our future effective tax rate may be materially impacted by the amount of benefits and charges from tax amounts associated with our foreign earnings that are taxed at rates different from the federal statutory rate, research credits, state income taxes, the tax impact of stock-based compensation, accounting for uncertain tax positions, business combinations, U.S. Manufacturers deduction, closure of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits, changes in valuation allowances and changes in tax laws including possible U.S. tax law changes that, if enacted, could significantly impact how U.S. multinational companies are taxed on foreign subsidiary earnings. In addition, a significant amount of our earnings is generated outside of the U.S., and repatriation of certain foreign earnings on which U.S. taxes have not previously been provided could also have a material impact on our future effective tax rate. At April 30, 2011, we had net deferred tax assets of $141.8 million. We believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions to realize these assets. 34 Table of Contents Other Financial Information In addition to our results determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) discussed above, we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance. For the three months ended April 30, 2011, and 2010, our gross profit, gross margin, income from operations, operating margin, net income and diluted earnings per share on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis were as follows (in millions except for gross margin, operating margin and per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2011 April 30, 2010 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 473.7 $ 423.3 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 482.7 $ 431.8 Gross margin 90 % 89 % Non-GAAP gross margin 91 % 91 % Income from operations $ 78.6 $ 50.8 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 119.1 $ 96.1 Operating margin 15 % 11 % Non-GAAP operating margin 23 % 20 % Net income $ 69.3 $ 36.9 Non-GAAP net income $ 93.7 $ 67.7 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.29 $ 0.16 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share $ 0.40 $ 0.29 For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, we use non-GAAP measures to supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis. These non-GAAP measures do not include certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. We use non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe those measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our earning potential. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to our and our competitors historical results and operating guidance. We also use these measures for purposes of determining company-wide incentive compensation. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures included above are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which charges are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our public disclosures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 35 Table of Contents Reconciliation of GAAP Financial Measures to Non-GAAP Financial Measures (In millions except for gross margin, operating margin and per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2011 2010 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 473.7 $ 423.3 Stock-based compensation expense 0.9 0.8 Amortization of purchased intangibles (1) 8.1 7.7 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 482.7 $ 431.8 Gross margin 90 % 89 % Stock-based compensation expense 0 % 0 % Amortization of purchased intangibles 1 % 2 % Non-GAAP gross margin 91 % 91 % Income from operations $ 78.6 $ 50.8 Stock-based compensation expense 25.9 24.3 Amortization of purchased intangibles (1) 14.6 13.9 Restructuring charges 7.1 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 119.1 $ 96.1 Operating margin 15 % 11 % Stock-based compensation expense 5 % 5 % Amortization of purchased intangibles (1) 3 % 3 % Restructuring charges 0 % 1 % Non-GAAP operating margin 23 % 20 % Net income $ 69.3 $ 36.9 Stock-based compensation expense 25.9 24.3 Amortization of purchased intangibles (1) 14.6 13.9 Restructuring charges 7.1 Discrete tax provision items (4.1 ) (1.8 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (12.0 ) (12.7 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 93.7 $ 67.7 Diluted net income per share $ 0.29 $ 0.16 Stock-based compensation expense 0.11 0.10 Amortization of purchased intangibles (1) 0.06 0.06 Restructuring charges 0.03 Discrete tax provision items (0.02 ) (0.01 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (0.04 ) (0.05 ) Non-GAAP diluted net income per share $ 0.40 $ 0.29 (1) Amortization of purchased intangibles includes amortization of purchased developed technology, customer relationships and trade names for acquisitions subsequent to December 2005. Our non-GAAP financial measures as set forth in the table above exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expenses . We exclude stock-based compensation expenses from non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. 36 Table of Contents Amortization of purchased intangibles . We incur amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets primarily in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. The amortization of purchased intangibles varies depending on the level of acquisition activity and management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Restructuring charges . These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancelation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing financial results in the current period. Discrete tax items . We exclude the GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from the non-GAAP measure of income, and include a non-GAAP tax provision based upon the projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Discrete tax items include income tax expenses or benefits that do not relate to ordinary income from continuing operations in the current fiscal year, unusual or infrequently occurring items, or the tax impact of certain stock-based compensation. Examples of discrete tax items include, but are not limited to, certain changes in judgment and changes in estimates of tax matters related to prior fiscal years, certain costs related to business combinations, certain changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets or changes in tax law. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to ongoing operations. Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses . The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses, primarily due to differences in the timing of when income tax benefits are recognized for stock compensation and purchased intangibles for GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of cash is from the sale of licenses to our products. Our primary use of cash is payment of our operating costs which consist primarily of employee-related expenses, such as compensation and benefits, as well as general operating expenses for marketing, facilities and overhead costs. In addition to operating expenses, we also use cash to invest in our growth initiatives, which include acquisitions of products, technology and businesses and to fund our stock repurchase program. See further discussion of these items below. At April 30, 2011, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $1,525.7 million and net accounts receivable of $271.0 million. In addition, at April 30, 2011 we had a U.S. line of credit facility that permitted unsecured short-term borrowings of up to $250.0 million. During the three months ended April 30, 2011 and 2010, we had no borrowings or repayments on our line of credit facility. In May 2011, we entered into a new credit agreement that provides for a $400 million unsecured revolving credit facility, with an option to request an increase in the amount of the credit facility by up to an additional $100 million. In connection with the execution of the new credit agreement, Autodesk and Citibank terminated the $250 million U.S. line of credit facility described above. This new credit agreement contains customary covenants that could restrict the imposition of liens on our assets, and restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make dispositions of assets if we fail to maintain the financial covenants. This new credit facility is available for working capital and general corporate purposes. This new line of credit expires in May 2016. Our cash and cash equivalents are held by diversified financial institutions globally. Our primary commercial banking relationship is with Citibank and its global affiliates (Citibank). In addition, Citibank is one of the lead lenders and agent in the syndicate of the $400.0 million line of credit that we entered into in May 2011. The increase in our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities from $1,466.9 million at January 31, 2011 to $1,525.7 million at April 30, 2011 is principally the result of cash generated from operations and the proceeds from the issuance of common stock following stock option exercises. These increases to cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were partially offset by cash used for business combinations, repurchases of our common stock, capital expenditures and other investing activities. Cash generated from operations was positively impacted by higher net revenue. The primary source for net cash provided by operating activities of $128.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2011 was net income of $69.3 million increased by the effect of non-cash expenses totaling $50.4 million associated with depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation. In addition, net cash flow provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities was $8.7 million. The primary source of working capital was a decrease in accounts receivable, an increase in deferred revenue and increase in accounts payable. Our days sales outstanding in trades receivables was 47 at April 30, 2011 compared to 55 days at January 31, 2011. The days sales outstanding decrease relates primarily to seasonality in our maintenance contract renewals; maintenance billings are generally higher in the fourth quarter than in the subsequent years first quarter. The primary working capital uses of cash were for payment of the reduction of the accrued expenses primarily related to our fiscal 2011 employee bonus accrual and fourth quarter fiscal 2011 commissions, and the purchase of shares under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESP Plan). 37 Table of Contents At April 30, 2011, our short-term investment portfolio had an estimated fair value of $258.4 million and a cost basis of $254.6 million. The portfolio fair value consisted of $108.5 million invested in commercial paper and corporate securities, $53.1 million invested in U.S. government agency securities, $34.5 million invested in mutual funds, $24.2 million invested in certificates of deposit and time deposits with remaining maturities at the date of purchase greater than 90 days and less than one year, $26.4 million invested in U.S treasury securities, $5.0 million invested in sovereign debt, $6.4 million invested in municipal securities and $0.3 million invested in other short-term securities. At April 30, 2011, $34.5 million of trading securities were invested in a defined set of mutual funds as directed by the participants in our Deferred Compensation Plan (see Note 9, Deferred Compensation, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). Long-term cash requirements for items other than normal operating expenses are anticipated for the following: stock repurchases; the acquisition of businesses, software products, or technologies complementary to our business; capital expenditures, including the purchase and implementation of internal-use software applications; and funding restructuring costs. Our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances are concentrated in a few locations around the world, with substantial amounts held outside of the U.S. We believe that such dispersion meets our business and liquidity needs. Certain amounts held outside the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. (subject to local law restrictions), but under current U.S. tax law, could be subject to U.S. income taxes less applicable foreign tax credits. We have provided for the U.S. income tax liability on foreign earnings, except for foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside the U.S. Our intent is that amounts related to foreign earnings permanently reinvested outside the U.S. will remain outside the U.S. and we will meet our U.S. liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may decline in fiscal 2012 in the event of a weakening of the global economy or changes in our planned cash outlay. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next 12 months. Our existing credit facility at June 3, 2011 is $400.0 million of which we have no amounts outstanding. This credit facility is available for working capital and general corporate purposes. Our revenue, earnings, cash flows, receivables and payables are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our risk management strategy utilizes foreign currency contracts to manage our exposure to foreign currency volatility that exists as part of our ongoing business operations. We utilize cash flow hedge contracts to reduce the exchange rate impact on a portion of the net revenue or operating expense of certain anticipated transactions. In addition, we use balance sheet hedge contracts to reduce the exchange rate risk associated primarily with foreign currency denominated receivables and payables. As of April 30, 2011, we had open cash flow and balance sheet hedge contracts with future settlements within one to twelve months. Contracts were primarily denominated in euros, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, British pounds and Canadian dollars. We do not enter into any foreign exchange derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The notional amount of our option and forward contracts was $452.4 million and $401.6 million at April 30, 2011 and January 31, 2011, respectively. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the cumulative repurchase of up to 184.0 million shares. The purpose of the stock repurchase program is largely to help offset the dilution to net income per share caused by the issuance of stock under our employee stock plans and for such other purposes as may be in the interests of Autodesk and its stockholders, and has the effect of returning excess cash generated from our business to stockholders. The number of shares acquired and the timing of the purchases are based on several factors, including general market conditions, the volume of employee stock option exercises, stock issuance, the trading price of our common stock, cash on hand and available in the U.S., and company defined trading windows. There were 1.7 million repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended April 30, 2011. At April 30, 2011, 22.7 million shares remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization. This program does not have a fixed expiration date. See Note 16, Stock Repurchase Program, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 38 Table of Contents The following table provides information about the repurchase of common stock in open-market transactions during the quarter ended April 30, 2011: (Shares in thousands) Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (2) February 1 - February 28 $ 24,454.1 March 1 - March 31 1,711.6 40.17 1,711.6 22,742.5 April 1 - April 30 22,742.5 Total 1,711.6 $ 40.17 1,711.6 (1) Represents shares purchased in open-market transactions under the stock repurchase plan approved by the Board of Directors. (2) These amounts correspond to the plans approved by the Board of Directors in December 2007 and December 2010 that each authorized the repurchase of 20.0 million shares. These plans do not have a fixed expiration date. There were no sales of unregistered securities during the three months ended April 30, 2011. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than operating leases, we do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements or have any variable-interest entities. As of April 30, 2011, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. Glossary of terms BIM (Building Information Modeling) BIM describes a model-based technology linked with a database of project information, and is the process of generating and managing information throughout the life cycle of a building. BIM is used as a digital representation of the building process to facilitate exchange and interoperability of information in digital formats. Digital prototyping Digital prototyping allows designers, architects and engineers to analyze, simulate and visualize a design using a digital or virtual model rather than a physical model. Upgrade and crossgrade In an upgrade, a customer pays an incremental fee at currently available prices toward the purchase of a new version of the same product; the license to the previous version of the product is terminated. In a crossgrade, a customer pays an incremental fee at currently available prices toward the purchase of a different product; the license to the previous product is terminated. Flagship Autodesk flagship products are our core design products. Flagship includes the following products: Autodesk 3ds Max, AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT, AutoCAD vertical products (such as AutoCAD Architecture and AutoCAD Mechanical), Civil 3D, Maya, Plant 3D and Revit products (standalone). Suites Autodesk suites are a combination of products that target a specific user objective (product design, building design, etc.) and support a set of workflows for that objective. Our new design and creation suites include: Autodesk Design Suite, Autodesk Building Design Suite, Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite, Autodesk Factory Design Suite, Autodesk Plant Design Suite and Autodesk Product Design Suite. Our previously established suites include: Autodesk Inventor family suites, Autodesk Revit family suites and educational/academic suites. New and Adjacent Autodesk new and adjacent products include Autodesks new product offerings as well as products that are not included in flagship or suites. New and adjacent includes the following services and products: Autodesk Alias Design products, Autodesk Consulting, Autodesk Buzzsaw, Autodesk Constructware, Autodesk consumer products, Autodesk Creative Finishing products, Autodesk Moldflow products, Autodesk Navisworks, Autodesk Simulation, Autodesk Vault products and all other products.