Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, reference in this section to we, ours, us or similar terms means ADP, together with its subsidiaries. The level of importance of each of the following risks may vary from time to time, and any of these risks may have a material effect on our business. Changes in laws and regulations may decrease our revenues and earnings Portions of ADPs business are subject to governmental regulations. Changes in laws or governmental regulations may decrease our revenues and earnings and may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business. For example, a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to government authorities would adversely impact interest income from investing client funds before such funds are remitted to the applicable taxing authorities or client employees. Changes in taxation requirements in the United States or in other countries could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our net income. Changes in laws that govern the co-employment arrangement between a professional employer organization and its worksite employees may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our PEO business. Security and privacy breaches may hurt our business We store electronically personal information about our clients and employees of our clients. In addition, our retirement services systems maintain investor account information for retirement plans. We have security systems and procedures in place that are designed to protect against any unauthorized access to such information. However, there is still a risk that the security systems and procedures that we maintain may not be successful in protecting against all security breaches. Any significant violations of data privacy could result in the loss of business, litigation and regulatory investigations and penalties that could damage our reputation, and the growth of our business could be adversely affected. 8 Our systems may be subject to disruptions that could adversely affect our business and reputation Many of our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions. We rely heavily on our payroll, financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation. We have disaster recovery plans in place to protect our businesses against natural disasters, security breaches, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures or similar events. Despite our preparations, our disaster recovery plans may not be successful in preventing the loss of client data, service interruptions, disruptions to our operations, or damage to our important facilities. If we fail to adapt our technology to meet client needs and preferences, the demand for our services may diminish Our businesses operate in industries that are subject to rapid technological advances and changing client needs and preferences. In order to remain competitive and responsive to client demands, we continually upgrade, enhance and expand our existing solutions and services. If we fail to respond successfully to technology challenges, the demand for our services may diminish. Political and economic factors may adversely affect our business and financial results Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and volatility. When there is a slowdown in the economy, employment levels and interest rates may decrease with a corresponding impact on our businesses. Clients may react to worsening conditions by reducing their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services or renegotiating their contracts with us. In addition, the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings, may limit our access to short-term debt markets to meet liquidity needs required by our Employer Services business. We invest our client funds in liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, money market securities and other cash equivalents. Nevertheless, our client fund assets are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated, individually or in unison, during periods of unusual financial market volatility. We are dependent upon various large banks to execute Automated Clearing House and wire transfers as part of our client payroll and tax services. While we have contingency plans in place for bank failures, a systemic shutdown of the banking industry would impede our ability to process funds on behalf of our payroll and tax services clients and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity. We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income from affiliates operating in non-U.S. dollar currency environments and, as a result, we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Change in our credit ratings could adversely impact our operations and lower our profitability The major credit rating agencies periodically evaluate our creditworthiness and have consistently given us their highest long-term debt and commercial paper ratings. Failure to maintain high credit ratings on long-term and short-term debt could increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to obtain intra-day borrowing required by our Employer Services business, and ultimately reduce our client interest revenue. 9 We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel Our ability to grow and provide our clients with competitive services is partially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly motivated people with the skills to serve our clients. Competition for skilled employees in the outsourcing and other markets in which we operate is intense and if we are unable to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated personnel, results from our operations may suffer. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties ADP owns 13 of its processing/print centers, and 26 other operational offices, sales offices and its corporate headquarters complex in Roseland, New Jersey, which aggregate approximately 3,912,205 square feet. None of ADPs owned facilities is subject to any material encumbrances. ADP leases space for some of its processing centers, other operational offices and sales offices. All of these leases, which aggregate approximately 5,833,131 square feet in North America, Europe, South America (primarily Brazil), Asia, Australia and Africa, expire at various times up to the year 2036. ADP believes its facilities are currently adequate for their intended purposes and are adequately maintained. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to various claims and litigation. While the outcome of any litigation is inherently unpredictable, the Company believes it has valid defenses with respect to the legal matters pending against it and the Company believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market for the Registrants Common Equity The principal market for the Companys common stock (symbol: ADP) is the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The following table sets forth the reported high and low sales prices of the Companys common stock reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the cash dividends per share of common stock declared, during the past two fiscal years. As of June 30, 2011, there were 43,453 holders of record of the Companys common stock. As of such date, 352,759 additional holders held their common stock in street name. Price Per Share Dividends High Low Per Share Fiscal 2011 quarter ended: June 30 $ 55.12 $ 50.82 $ 0.360 March 31 $ 51.50 $ 46.73 $ 0.360 December 31 $ 47.17 $ 41.50 $ 0.360 September 30 $ 42.72 $ 38.41 $ 0.340 Fiscal 2010 quarter ended: June 30 $ 45.74 $ 39.27 * $ 0.340 March 31 $ 45.22 $ 39.72 $ 0.340 December 31 $ 44.50 $ 38.51 $ 0.340 September 30 $ 40.44 $ 33.26 $ 0.330 * Excludes trading on May 6, 2010, during which a low sales price of $26.46 was reported. 10 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (a) (b) (c) (d) Total Number Maximum of Shares Number of Shares Purchased as Part that may yet be of the Publicly Purchased under Announced the Common Total Number of Average Price Common Stock Stock Repurchase Period Shares Purchased (1) Paid per Share Repurchase Plan (2) Plan (2) April 1, 2011 to 9,170 $54.32 -- 24,959,451 April 30, 2011 May 1, 2011 to 6,400,565 $53.93 6,400,000 18,559,451 May 31, 2011 June 1, 2011 to 4,000,152 $53.22 4,000,000 49,559,451 June 30, 2011 Total 10,409,887 10,400,000 (1) Pursuant to the terms of the Companys restricted stock program, the Company purchased 9,170 shares during April 2011, 565 shares during May 2011, and 152 shares during June 2011, at the then market value of the shares in connection with the exercise by employees of their option under such program to satisfy certain tax withholding requirements through the delivery of shares to the Company instead of cash. (2) The Company received the Board of Directors approval to repurchase shares of the Companys common stock as follows: Date of Approval Shares March 2001 50 million November 2002 35 million November 2005 50 million August 2006 50 million August 2008 50 million June 2011 35 million There is no expiration date for the common stock repurchase plan. 11 Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative return on the Companys common stock (a) for the most recent five years with the cumulative return on the S&P 500 Index and a Peer Group Index (b) , assuming an initial investment of $100 on June 30, 2005, with all dividends reinvested. (a) On March 30, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off of its former Brokerage Services Group business, comprised of Brokerage Services and Securities Clearing and Outsourcing Services, into an independent publicly traded company called Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. The cumulative returns of the Companys common stock have been adjusted to reflect the spin-off. (b) The Peer Group Index is comprised of the following companies: Insperity, Inc. (formerly named Administaff, Inc.) Paychex, Inc. Computer Sciences Corporation The Ultimate Software Group, Inc. Global Payments Inc. Total System Services, Inc. Intuit Inc. The Western Union Company Hewitt Associates, Inc. was acquired in 2010 and was removed from the Peer Group Index 12 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data is derived from our consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and