Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See "Item 1. BusinessCompetition" of this Form 10-K for a discussion of the competitive environment in the markets in which we operate. Many risks affect more than one category, and the risks are not in order of significance or probability of occurrence because they have been grouped by categories. The risks described below are not the only risks we face and the occurrence of any of the following risks or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial couldhave a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or reputation. LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Failure to comply with, compliance with or changes in, laws and regulations applicable to our businesses could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences Our business is subject to a wide range of complex U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations described in the Industry Regulation section in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations or client solutions and services could cause us to incur substantial costs or could result in the suspension or revocation of licenses or registrations, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, and lawsuits, including class actions, that could damage our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, changes in laws or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of laws or regulations by a regulatory authority, may decrease our revenues and earnings and may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business. For example, a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to government authorities would adversely impact average client balances and, thereby, adversely impact interest income from investing client funds before such funds are remitted to the applicable tax authorities. Changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws, regulations or rulings or the interpretation thereof could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our net income. In addition, changes in federal, state or local tax laws and regulations allowing for tax credits (including the non-renewal of such laws) could adversely impact our Tax Credit Services business, which helps clients in the United States realize tax credit opportunities in connection with the hiring of new employees and certain other activities. Changes in laws or regulations could also cause us to modify our client funds investment strategy, which may reduce the interest income earned on such funds. Changes in laws, or interpretations thereof, that govern the co-employment arrangement between a professional employer organization and its worksite employees may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our PEO business. In addition, changes in the manner in which health and welfare plans sponsored by PEOs or the TotalSource Health and Welfare Plan, in particular, are regulated could adversely impact the demand for our PEO offering. Because our PEO is a co-employer with our PEO clients and a Certified PEO by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be subject to certain obligations, responsibilities and liabilities of an employer with respect to Worksite Employees (WSE), including with respect to their wages and the payment thereof, tax credits for employers, the payment of certain taxes with respect to WSE wages and employee benefits provided to the WSEs. Even though PEO clients are contractually responsible for the timely remittance of such costs, it is possible that our clients will not remit such payments despite their contractual obligations. The risk of failing to receive such payments from PEO clients could be magnified during significant financial or other disruptions or catastrophic events, such as the failure of a bank with whom a significant number of PEO clients may bank at the time, or more widespread stress or failure within the U.S. banking system. Any such event could prevent or materially delay the recovery of any payments not timely remitted and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity. In addition, our payroll and tax processing services involve the collection and disbursement of a significant amount of funds to a large number of federal, state and local tax authorities. Our failure to properly or timely remit taxes on behalf of our clients could result in fines, penalties and interest for which we could be responsible, and could materially adversely affect our reputation, results of operations or financial condition. Our Wisely offerings and potentially other future offerings in the payments and/or consumer space may subject us to additional laws and regulations, some of which may not be uniform and may require us to modify or restrict our offerings and decrease our potential revenue and earnings. 16 Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, economic and trade sanctions, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, and similar laws could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences Regulators worldwide continue to exercise a high level of scrutiny with respect to anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions, and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. Such scrutiny has resulted in aggressive investigations and enforcement of such laws and regulations, any of which could materially adversely impact our business. We operate our business around the world, including in numerous developing economies where companies and government officials are more likely to engage in business practices that are prohibited by domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010. Such laws generally prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign government officials and leaders of political parties and, in some cases, to other persons, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We are also subject to economic and trade sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control, which prohibit or restrict transactions or dealings with specified countries, their governments and, in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially designated, including narcotics traffickers and terrorists or terrorist organizations, among others. In addition, some of our businesses and entities in the U.S. and a number of other countries in which we operate are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including, for example, The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the BSA). Among other things, the BSA requires certain financial institutions, including banks and money services businesses (such as national trust banks and providers of prepaid access like us), to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity, and maintain transaction records. We have registered our prepaid card business as a provider of prepaid access, and registered ADP Trust Bank and ADP Retirement Trust Services with the Treasury Departments Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. ADP Canada Co. is a registered entity with FINTRAC as a Money Service Business. In November 2024, ADP Canada Co. filed its application for registration with the Bank of Canada as a Payment Services Provider as defined and required under the Retail Payment Activities Act. We have implemented policies and procedures to monitor and address compliance with applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions and anti-money laundering laws and regulations, and we regularly review, upgrade and enhance our policies and procedures. However, there can be no assurance that our employees, consultants or agents will not take actions in violation of our policies for which we may be ultimately responsible, or that our policies and procedures will be adequate or will be determined to be adequate by regulators. Any violations of applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions or anti-money laundering laws or regulations could limit certain of our business activities until they are satisfactorily remediated and could result in civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Further, bank regulators continue to impose additional and stricter requirements on banks to ensure they are meeting their BSA obligations, and banks are increasingly viewing money services businesses and third-party senders to be higher risk customers for money laundering. As a result, our banking partners that assist in processing our money movement transactions may limit the scope of services they provide to us or may impose additional material requirements on us. These regulatory restrictions on banks and changes to banks internal risk-based policies and procedures may result in a decrease in the number of banks that may do business with us, may require us to materially change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business, may decrease our revenues and earnings and could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Failure to comply with privacy, data protection, artificial intelligence and cyber security laws and regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences The collection, storage, hosting, transfer, processing, disclosure, use, security and retention and destruction of personal information required to provide our services is subject to federal, state and foreign privacy, data protection and cyber security laws. These laws, which are not uniform, generally do one or more of the following: regulate the collection, storage, hosting, transfer (including in some cases, the transfer outside the country of collection), processing, disclosure, use, security and retention and destruction of personal information; require notice to individuals of privacy practices; give individuals certain access and correction rights with respect to their personal information; and regulate the use or disclosure of personal information for secondary purposes such as marketing. Under certain circumstances, some of these laws require us to provide notification to affected individuals, clients, data protection authorities and/or other regulators in the event of a data breach. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information among the Company and its subsidiaries. The European Union (the EU) General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR), and state consumer privacy laws like the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (the CPRA), are among the most comprehensive of these laws, and more and more jurisdictions are adopting similarly comprehensive laws that impose new data privacy protection requirements and restrictions. As part of our overall data protection compliance program in connection with the GDPR, we implemented Binding 17 Corporate Rules (BCRs) as both a data processor and data controller, which permits us to process and transfer personal data across borders in compliance with EU data protection laws. In addition, the Department of Justice implemented a Data Security Program under Executive Order 14117 restricting certain transfers of U.S. persons sensitive data to countries of concern and we have taken appropriate steps to comply. We believe that providing insights and content from data, including via AI and ML, will become increasingly important to the value that our solutions and services deliver to our clients. We are increasingly leveraging AI and ML in our solutions and service delivery and are exploring how best to integrate generative AI technologies and develop and deploy capabilities that are beneficial to our clients and their employees. However, legislation that governs the development and/or use of AI has been adopted or is under consideration in the U.S. at the state and local level, as well as abroad, most notably the European Unions Artificial Intelligence Act. In addition, self-regulatory frameworks like the National Institute of Standards and Technology AI Risk Management Framework are being promulgated and adherence to these may become an industry standard or a client expectation. As a result, the ability to provide data-driven insights and otherwise leverage AI and ML may be constrained by current or future laws (including product liability regimes), regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or ethical considerations, including our own published, guiding ethical principles regarding AI and ML, that could restrict or impose burdensome and costly requirements on our ability to leverage data and/or these technologies in innovative ways. Our use of generative AI in our products and operations also introduces additional risks, including risks related to accuracy, bias, transparency, security, and privacy. For example, if the data used to train a model or the models output is inaccurate or biased, or alleged to be inaccurate or biased, we could be subject to reputational damage or litigation. Complying with privacy, data protection, AI and cyber security laws and requirements, including the enhanced obligations imposed by the GDPR, our BCRs, U.S. state privacy laws, including the CPRA, and the EU Artificial Intelligence Act, may result in significant costs to our business and require us to amend certain of our business practices. Further, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. The future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations and/or future enforcement actions or investigations could have a materially adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our businesses and noncompliance could result in significant regulatory penalties and legal liability and damage our reputation. In addition, data security events, concerns about privacy abuses by other companies and increased awareness of the potential (positive and negative) of AI are changing client, consumer and social expectations for enhanced protections (including with respect to bias and potential discrimination). As a result, noncompliance, the failure to meet such expectations or the perception of noncompliance or such failure, whether or not valid, may damage our reputation. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, it could materially adversely affect our business and our brand Our ability to compete and our success depend, in part, upon our intellectual property. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, clients, vendors, partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. We may need to devote significant resources, including cybersecurity resources, to monitoring our intellectual property rights. In addition, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate or ineffective, or may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. Our intellectual property (including source code) could be wrongfully acquired as a result of a cyber-attack or other wrongful conduct by third parties or our personnel, or as a result of increased use of generative AI tools by us or our vendors. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights, which may be successful. In addition, use of AI tools may result in the release of confidential or proprietary information which could limit our ability to protect, or prevent us from protecting, our intellectual property rights. We may be sued by third parties for infringement of their proprietary rights, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations There is considerable intellectual property development activity in our industry. Third parties, including our competitors, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our products or services and may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Additionally, as we expand our use of AI, there is uncertainty regarding intellectual property ownership and license rights of AI algorithms and content generated by AI and we may become subject to similar claims of infringement. We may be found to be infringing upon third party intellectual property rights, even if we are unaware of their intellectual property rights. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us or if we decide to settle, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, obtain licenses, modify applications, prevent us from offering our services, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our clients, vendors or partners in 18 connection with any such claim or litigation. Even if we were to prevail in such a dispute, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming. SECURITY AND TECHNOLOGY RISKS Our businesses collect, host, store, transfer, process, disclose, use, secure, retain and dispose of personal and business information, and collect, hold and transmit client funds, and a security or privacy breach may damage or disrupt our businesses or operations, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, increase our costs, cause losses and materially adversely affect our results of operations In connection with our business, we collect, host, store, transfer, process, disclose, use, secure, retain and dispose of large amounts of personal and business information about our clients, employees of our clients, our vendors, our partners, and our employees, contractors and temporary staff, including payroll information, health care information, personal and business financial data, social security numbers and their foreign equivalents, bank account numbers, tax information and other personal and business information. We also collect significant amounts of funds from the accounts of our clients and transmit them to their employees, tax authorities and other payees. We are focused on safeguarding and protecting personal and business information and client funds, and we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly update our systems and processes. Nonetheless, the global environment continues to grow increasingly hostile as attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication (including due to the use of AI), and we are regularly targeted by unauthorized parties using malicious tactics, code and viruses. Certain of these unauthorized parties may be state-sponsored and/or supported by significant financial and technological resources. Although this is a global problem, it may affect our businesses more than other businesses because unauthorized parties (which could include our personnel) may focus on the amount and type of personal and business information that our businesses collect, host, store, transfer, process, disclose, use, secure, retain and dispose of, and the client funds that we collect and transmit. We have programs and processes in place designed to prevent, detect and respond to data or cybersecurity incidents. However, as a result of the complexity of our operating environment, the period over which hardware and software has been acquired or other reasons, our programs and processes may not be sufficient or adequate or may fail to prevent, detect or respond to a cybersecurity incident or identify and/or remediate a security vulnerability in our operating environment. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, are increasingly more complex and sophisticated (including due to the use of AI). In addition, new computing technologies, including quantum computing, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we or our authorized third parties use or have used to encrypt and protect data. We may fail to anticipate or detect these techniques and/or incidents for long periods of time and, even when we do so, we may be unable or fail to implement adequate or timely preventive or responsive measures. Our ability to address data or cybersecurity incidents may also depend on the timing and nature of assistance that may be provided from relevant governmental or law enforcement agencies. Hardware, software, applications or services that we develop or procure from authorized third parties, or are required by governmental or law enforcement agencies to install on our systems, may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could (or in respect of third party software, may be designed to) compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of data or our systems. Unauthorized parties have also attempted to gain (and in certain cases have gained), and will continue to attempt to gain, access to our systems and facilities, and those of our authorized third parties, through fraud, trickery, and other methods of deceit, including using stolen identities to obtain employment with us or our authorized third parties as well as phishing and other social engineering techniques whereby attackers use end-user behaviors to distribute computer viruses and malware into our systems, our authorized third parties systems or otherwise compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of data or our systems. As these threats continue to evolve and increase (including due to the use of AI), we continue to invest significant resources, and may be required to invest significant additional resources, to modify and enhance our cybersecurity controls and to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. In addition, as we become increasingly interconnected with our authorized third parties, the security risk of our networks and the larger ecosystem in which we operate is heightened. While our operating environments are designed to safeguard and protect confidential personal and business information, we do not have the ability to monitor the systems, personnel or physical facilities of, or the implementation or effectiveness of any safeguards by, our clients or our authorized third parties and, in any event, unauthorized parties have circumvented in the past, and may in the future be able to circumvent, those security measures. Information or system access obtained by unauthorized parties (which could include our personnel) resulting from successful attacks against our clients or our authorized third parties may, in turn, be used to attack and compromise our information technology systems, or result in production downtimes and operational disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, while we perform due diligence prior to acquisitions and take actions to safeguard the businesses that we acquire, these businesses may not have invested as significantly as we do in security and technology and may be more susceptible to 19 cybersecurity incidents, which may make us more vulnerable to cybersecurity incidents as well. We have been, and expect we will continue to be, the subject of cybersecurity attacks, including unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service, corruption of data, ransomware attack, insider threats, and theft of sensitive information (including our intellectual property). Although none of the cybersecurity incidents that we have identified to date have materially affected us, including our business strategy, operations, results of operations, or financial condition, we continue to face significant known and unknown cybersecurity threats. In the future, a cybersecurity attack, unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service, corruption of data, ransomware attack, theft of non-public or other sensitive information, or similar act by an unauthorized party (which could include our personnel) with respect to our businesses or our authorized third parties businesses, or inadvertent acts or inactions by our authorized third parties or personnel, could result in the loss, disclosure or misuse of confidential personal or business information or our intellectual property or the theft of client or ADP funds, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business or results of operations or that of our clients, result in liability, litigation, regulatory investigations and sanctions or a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients, or cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider. As the global environment continues to grow increasingly hostile, the security of our operating environment is ever more important to our clients and potential clients. As a result, the breach or perceived breach of our security systems or the security systems of our authorized third parties could result in a loss of confidence by our clients or potential clients and cause them to choose another service provider, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. While ADP maintains insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address losses or claims that may arise in connection with certain aspects of data and cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of data and cyber risk. Our systems, applications, solutions and services may be subject to disruptions that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations or reputation Many of our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions. We rely heavily on our payroll, financial, accounting, and other data processing systems. We need to properly manage our systems, applications and solutions, and any upgrades, enhancements and expansions we may undertake from time to time, in order to ensure they properly support our businesses. From time to time in the past, these systems, applications or solutions have failed to operate properly or become disabled, and they may do so in the future. Any such failure or disablement, even for a brief period of time, whether due to malevolent acts, errors, defects or any other factor(s), could result in financial loss, a disruption of our businesses or operations, liability to clients, loss of clients, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have a global business resiliency program that includes disaster recovery, business continuity, and crisis management plans and procedures designed to protect our businesses against a multitude of events, including natural disasters, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures, or similar events. Despite our preparations, our plans and procedures may not be successful in preventing or mitigating the loss of client data or funds, service interruptions, disruptions to our operations, or damage to our important facilities.In addition, the severity of the failure or disablement may require us to replace or rebuild the affected system(s), application(s) or solution(s) and we may be unable to do so before it materially adversely affects our business or operations. A disruption of the data centers or cloud-computing or other technology services or systems that we utilize could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition or results of operations We host our applications and serve our clients with data centers that we operate, and with data centers that are operated, and cloud-computing and other technology services and systems that are provided, by third-party vendors. These data centers or cloud-computing and other technology services and systems have failed, become disabled or been disrupted, and may do so in the future. Any failure, disablement or disruption, even for a limited period of time, could disrupt our businesses or operations and we could suffer financial loss, liability to clients, loss of clients, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our third-party vendors may cease providing data center facilities or cloud-computing or other technology services or systems (including those on which our products or services are based), elect to not renew their agreements or licenses with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, breach their agreements or licenses with us or fail to satisfy our expectations, which could disrupt our operations and require us to incur costs which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY RISKS Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, including as a result of AI, and if we fail to upgrade, enhance and expand our technology and services to meet 20 client needs and preferences, the demand for our solutions and services may materially diminish Our businesses operate in industries that are subject to rapid technological advances (such as AI) and changing client needs and preferences. In order to remain competitive and responsive to client demands, we continually upgrade, enhance, and expand our technology, solutions and services, including by leveraging AI in our solutions. If we fail to respond successfully to technology challenges and client needs and preferences or our competitors or other third parties respond to such challenges more quickly or successfully than us, the demand for our solutions and services may diminish. As new technologies (such as AI) continue to emerge, they may be disruptive to the HCM industry. These technologies could result in new and innovative HCM products and solutions that could increase competition, place us at a competitive disadvantage or even render obsolete our technology, products and solutions. In addition, investment in product development and new technologies often involves a long return on investment cycle. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in product development and new technologies. We must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our development efforts before knowing to what extent our investments will result in products the market will accept. In addition, our business could be adversely affected in periods surrounding our new product introductions if clients delay purchasing decisions to evaluate the new product offerings. Furthermore, we may not execute successfully on our product development strategy, including because of challenges with regard to product planning and timing and technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion. We may fail to realize all the economic benefit of our investment in the development of a product which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles and result in a significant charge to earnings. A major natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations, or have other adverse consequences Our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations, access to capital markets and borrowing costs may be adversely affected by a major natural disaster or catastrophic event, including civil unrest, geopolitical instability, war, terrorist attack, pandemics or other (actual or threatened) public health emergencies, extreme weather, such as droughts, hurricanes, flooding and wildfires (including as a result of climate change), or other events beyond our control, and measures taken in response thereto. The COVID-19 outbreak created, and such other events may create, significant volatility and uncertainty and economic and financial market disruption. The extent of any such impact depends on developments which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the duration and scope of the event; the governmental and business actions taken in response thereto; actions taken by the Company in response thereto and the related costs; the impact on economic activity and employment levels; the effect on our clients, prospects, suppliers and partners; our ability to sell and provide our solutions and services, including due to travel restrictions, business and facility closures, and employee remote working arrangements; the ability of our clients or prospects to pay for our services and solutions; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. In addition, clients or prospects may delay decision making, demand pricing and other concessions, reduce the value or duration of their orders, delay planned work or seek to terminate existing agreements. Our business is also impacted by employment levels across our clients, as we have varied contracts throughout our business that blend base fees and per-employee fees. Political, economic and social factors may materially adversely affect our business and financial results Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and volatility. A slowdown in the economy or other negative changes, including in employment levels, the level of interest rates or the level of inflation, may have a negative impact on our businesses. In addition, as our operating costs increase due to inflationary pressure or otherwise, we may not be able to offset these increases by corresponding price increases for our products and solutions. Clients may react to worsening conditions by reducing their spending on HCM services or renegotiating their contracts with us, which may adversely affect our business and financial results. We invest our funds held for clients in liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, money market securities, and other cash equivalents. Nevertheless, such investments are subject to general market, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated, individually or together, during periods of unusual financial market volatility. In addition, as part of our client funds investment strategy, we extend the maturities of our investment portfolio for client funds and utilize short-term financing arrangements to satisfy our short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. In order to satisfy these short-term funding requirements, we maintain access to various sources of liquidity, including borrowings under our commercial paper program and our committed credit facilities, our ability to execute regular reverse repurchase transactions, our committed reverse repurchase agreements, and corporate cash balances. A reduction in the availability of any such financing during periods of disruption in the financial markets or otherwise may increase our borrowing costs and/or require us to sell 21 available-for-sale securities in our funds held for clients to satisfy our short-term funding requirements. When there is a reduction in employment levels due to a slowdown in the economy, the Company may experience a decline in client fund obligations and may also sell available-for-sale securities in our funds held for clients in order to reduce the size of the funds held for clients to correspond to client fund obligations. A sale of such available-for-sale securities may result in the recognition of losses and reduce the interest income earned on funds held for clients, either or both of which may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. In connection with our client funds assets investment strategy, we attempt to minimize the risk of not having funds collected from a client available at the time such clients obligation becomes due by generally impounding the clients funds at or before the time of payment of such clients obligation. When we dont impound client funds by the time we pay such client obligations (including for PEO clients with respect to which we are legally obligated for payroll and tax obligations in respect of WSEs as a Certified PEO), we are at risk of not recovering such funds or a material delay in such recovery. Such risk could be magnified during significant financial or other disruptions or catastrophic events, such as the failure of a bank with whom a significant number of clients may bank at the time or more widespread stress or failure within the U.S. banking system. Any such event could prevent or materially delay the recovery of any funds from clients and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity. We are dependent upon various financial institutions to execute electronic funds transfer and paper check payments as part of our client payroll, tax and other money movement services. While we have contingency plans in place for isolated bank failures and outages, a systemic shutdown of the banking industry would impede our ability to process payments on behalf of our payroll, tax and other money movement services clients and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity. We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income outside of the United States and, as a result, we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The investment community, clients, regulators, and other stakeholders may have evolving and varied expectations regarding our business, culture, and values. Negative publicity, regardless of whether claims are accurate, about our brand, our solutions, our data, our culture and values, or our partners, vendors, or employees, could adversely affect our reputation, our business, and our financial results. We publicly share certain information about our corporate social responsibility initiatives and we may face increased scrutiny related to these initiatives. Further, regulations, standards and reporting requirements in this respect continue to evolve, and may be inconsistent across jurisdictions, which may result in legal and regulatory uncertainty as well as increased compliance costs for our business. Our failure to achieve progress in these areas on a timely basis, or at all, our failure to fully comply with these requirements, or our failure to do so in a timely manner, or a negative perception of our initiatives could adversely impact our reputation, business, including employee recruitment and retention, financial results, and growth. Change in our credit ratings could adversely impact our operations and lower our profitability The major credit rating agencies periodically evaluate our creditworthiness and have given us strong, investment-grade long-term debt ratings and high commercial paper ratings. Failure to maintain high credit ratings on long-term and short-term debt could increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to obtain short-term borrowing required by our business, and adversely impact our results of operations. Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of actions by activist stockholders or others We have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to actions or proposals from activist stockholders or others that may not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders. Responding to such actions could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our business and operations, and divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of our business strategies. Activist stockholders may create perceived uncertainties as to the future direction of our business or strategy which may be exploited by our competitors and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, potential clients and business partners and may affect our relationships with current clients, vendors, investors and other third parties. In addition, actions of activist stockholders may cause periods of fluctuation in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel Our ability to grow and provide our clients with competitive services is, to an important degree, dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated people reflecting diverse perspectives and the diversity of our communities and clients. Competition for skilled employees in the outsourcing and other markets in which we operate is increasingly intense, making it more difficult and expensive to attract and retain highly skilled, motivated and diverse personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain highly skilled, motivated and diverse personnel, results of our operations and culture may suffer. 22 In addition, the nature of the office environment and remote or hybrid working is changing, which may make it more difficult to attract and retain personnel. It may also present operational and workplace culture challenges that may adversely affect our business. 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity Risk management and strategy At ADP, security is integral to our products, our business processes and infrastructure. We have an enterprise-wide approach to security with the objectives of protecting client data and funds, and preventing security incidents that could adversely affect the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information systems and data that resides in those systems, while also improving our system resilience with the aim of minimizing the impact to our business when incidents do occur. In connection with our business, we collect, host, store, transfer, process, disclose, use, secure, retain and dispose of large amounts of personal and business information about our clients, employees of our clients, our vendors, our partners, and our employees, contractors and temporary staff. We also collect significant amounts of funds from the accounts of our clients and transmit them to their employees, tax authorities and other payees. As the global environment continues to grow increasingly hostile and attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication, we are regularly targeted by unauthorized parties using malicious tactics, code and viruses. Although this is a global problem, it may affect our businesses more than other businesses because unauthorized parties may focus on the amount and type of personal and business information that our businesses collect, host, store, transfer, process, disclose, use, secure, retain and dispose of, and the client funds that we collect and transmit. ADP has implemented a cybersecurity program designed to assess, identify, and manage risks from cybersecurity threats. Our cybersecurity policies, processes, and standards are informed by industry practices and by industry frameworks and standards such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework and the International Organization for Standardization information security standards, including those standards for which we do not have a certification, but we do exercise judgment in selecting applicable controls from such framework or standards. Our cybersecurity program includes: Technical Safeguards. We have implemented a layered approach to defend against cybersecurity threats. We periodically evaluate technical controls through application security assessments, vulnerability management, penetration testing, and security audits. Incident Management and Response. A global team monitors our key applications and systems 24/7/365 to detect, investigate and respond to anomalies and incidents. This team addresses reported or detected issues by following a defined incident lifecycle and uses an incident management system to record facts, impact and remedial actions taken. We have established a cybersecurity incident response plan and escalation process, outlining processes for responding to incidents from identification to mitigation and notifying members of senior leadership, the board of directors and external advisors, as appropriate. We test our plans and processes through simulation exercises, scenario planning and tabletop exercises, using findings to improve processes. External and Internal Assessments. We periodically engage assessors, consultants, auditors, and other third parties to evaluate our technology, security, and related controls and benchmark against industry practices.We engage in both internal and external assurance and audit activities across the company multiple times a year including an annual third-party review of our overall cybersecurity program. Threat Intelligence. We maintain affiliations with cybercrime task forces and other third-party monitoring organizations. In addition, we collaborate with professional security organizations, law enforcement and technology companies to proactively identify malicious activity. Business Resiliency Program. We have established a global, integrated business resiliency program designed to manage the impacts of technological, environmental, process and health risks on service delivery. This program uses an integrated framework that lays out our mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery process. Third-Party Risk Management. We maintain a third-party risk management process, designed to identify and manage risks associated with our vendors, our partners and other third parties, that includes conducting security assessments prior to engagement and periodically during the engagement. We also seek to include security and privacy terms, where appropriate, in our contracts with third-party service providers that require third parties to maintain security controls to protect our data and notify us in the event of a cybersecurity incident. Security Awareness and Training Program. Our security training and awareness program is a continuous, dynamic initiative, designed to develop and maintain a security-focused culture and empower our associates to make responsible, secure decisions. As part of this awareness program, we communicate to our associates on a regular basis regarding key security topics and current events, best practices for addressing such cybersecurity threats, and 24 gamification to reinforce effective behaviors. All associates are also required to take an annual, interactive security training program that includes an overview of key security topics, policies and responsibilities. We have also integrated cybersecurity related risks into our enterprise risk management program, which is designed to identify, prioritize, assess, monitor and mitigate the various risks confronting ADP, including cybersecurity risks. Our enterprise risk management team conducts a range of activities, including an annual enterprise risk management assessment. We have been, and continue to be, the subject of cybersecurity attacks, including unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, and denial of service. Although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the cybersecurity incidents that we have identified to date have materially affected us, including our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition, we cannot provide assurances that a cybersecurity incident will not materially affect us, or our business strategy, results of operations or financial condition in the future. For additional information on cybersecurity related risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Governance A cross-functional, enterprise-wide management program operates to evaluate our global cybersecurity programs effectiveness and members of the Companys executive committee, through an executive security council, routinely review strategy, policy, program effectiveness, standards enforcement and cyber issue management. Our chief information security officer (CISO) leads our global cybersecurity program and oversees the global cybersecurity services team, which is responsible for monitoring, identifying, assessing and managing cybersecurity threats across ADP. Our CISO reports to our chief security officer (CSO), who leads our global security organization and is responsible for cybersecurity, fraud prevention, operational risk management, client security management, and workforce protection. Our CSO has over 25 years of experience in a range of security roles, including serving as a chief security officer at another public company, and participates in various cyber security organizations. The current CISO has served in various roles in cybersecurity and information technology for over 25 years and has attained the professional certification of Certified Information Security Manager. Our board of directors is actively engaged in the oversight of our global cybersecurity program.Our board of directors receives regular, quarterly reports on these matters from our CSO and leadership from our global product and technology organization, including on the status of projects to strengthen the Companys cybersecurity systems and improve cyber readiness, as well as on existing and emerging threat landscapes. In addition, the corporate development & technology committee of our board of directors receives regular, quarterly reports on our global product security and resiliency program led by leadership from our global product and technology organization with assistance from our CSO. Concurrent and in addition to these reports, our chief administrative officer (CAO) (who oversees legal, security and compliance matters) provides a legal, regulatory and ethics update at each meeting of the audit committee of our board of directors, which includes matters of cybersecurity, as appropriate. In addition, important actual or emerging cybersecurity events are communicated to the board of directors by our CAO and Chief Legal Officer, even if immaterial to us. Our global cybersecurity program is subject to an annual third-party assessment overseen by our board of directors and this assessment reviews all aspects of our cyber program. Findings are reported to our board of directors and, in response, ADP develops initiatives to improve our maturity across each of the pillars of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework. The status of these initiatives is then reviewed with our board of directors during its quarterly meetings. This governance process encourages an environment of continuous improvement. Item 2. Properties ADP owns 6 of its processing/print centers, and 10 other operational offices, sales offices, and its corporate headquarters in Roseland, New Jersey, which aggregate approximately 2,555,369 square feet. None of ADPs owned facilities is subject to any material encumbrances. ADP leases space for some of its processing centers, other operational offices, and sales offices. All of these leases, which aggregate approximately 5,640,668 square feet worldwide, expire at various times up to the year 2036. ADP believes its facilities are currently adequate for their intended purposes and are adequately maintained. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, ADP is subject to various claims and litigation. While the outcome of any litigation is inherently unpredictable, ADP believes that it has valid defenses with respect to the legal matters pending against it and that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a materially adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 26 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market for Registrant's Common Equity The principal market for the Companys common stock is the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ADP. As of June 30, 2025, there were 29,972 holders of record of the Companys common stock. As of such date, 1,780,085 additional holders held their common stock in street name. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid per Share (2) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of the Publicly Announced Common Stock Repurchase Plan (1) Maximum Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that may yet be Purchased under the Common Stock Repurchase Plan (1) (2) April 1, 2025 to April 30, 2025 400,430 $296.09 400,430 $2,010,261,167 May 1, 2025 to May 31, 2025 333,958 $315.74 333,958 $1,904,817,267 June 1, 2025 to June 30, 2025 327,239 $314.51 327,239 $1,801,895,701 Total 1,061,627 1,061,627 (1) The Company received the Board of Directors' approval in November 2022 to repurchase $5 billion of its common stock. (2) Inclusive of the impact of the one-percent excise tax under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. There is no expiration date for the common stock repurchase authorization. For equity compensation plan information, please refer to Item 12 in Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 27 Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative return on ADP's common stock for the most recent five years with the cumulative return on the S&P 500 Index and the Peer Group Index,(a) assuming an initial investment of $100 on June 30, 2020, with all dividends reinvested. The stock price performance shown on this graph may not be indicative of future performance. (a) We use the Nasdaq Dividend Achievers Select Index as our Peer Group Index. The Nasdaq Dividend Achievers Select Index is a select group of companies, that includes ADP, with at least ten consecutive years of increasing annual regular dividend payments. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Not applicable. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Tabular dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts The following section discusses our year ended June 30, 2025 (fiscal 2025), as compared to year ended June 30, 2024 (fiscal 2024). A detailed review of our fiscal 2024 performance compared to our fiscal 2023 performance is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document and other written or oral statements made from time to time by Automatic Data Processing, Inc., its subsidiaries and variable interest entity (ADP or the Company) may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words like outlook, expects, assumes, projects, anticipates, estimates, we believe, could, is designed to and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on managements expectations and assumptions and depend upon or refer to future events or conditions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements or that could contribute to such difference include: ADP's success in obtaining and retaining clients, and selling additional services to clients; the pricing of products and services; the success of our new solutions; our ability to respond successfully to changes in technology, including artificial intelligence; compliance with existing or new legislation or regulations; changes in, or interpretations of, existing legislation or regulations; overall market, political and economic conditions, including interest rate and foreign currency trends and inflation; competitive conditions; our ability to maintain our current credit ratings and the impact on our funding costs and profitability; security or cyber breaches, fraudulent acts, and system interruptions and failures; employment and wage levels; availability of 28 skilled associates; the impact of new acquisitions and divestitures; the impact of any uncertainties related to major natural disasters or catastrophic events; and supply-chain disruptions. ADP disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. These risks and uncertainties, along with the risk factors discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors, and in other written or oral statements made from time to time by ADP, should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements contained herein. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES In addition to our U.S. GAAP results, we use adjusted results and other non-GAAP metrics to evaluate our operating performance in the absence of certain items and for planning and forecasting of future periods. Adjusted EBIT, adjusted EBIT margin, adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted earnings per share, adjusted effective tax rate and organic constant currency are all non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to the accompanying financial tables in the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section for a discussion of why ADP believes these measures are important and for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to their nearest comparable GAAP financial measures. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW As a global leader in HR and payroll solutions, ADP continuously aims to solve complex business challenges for our clients and their workers. Our Human Capital Management ("HCM") solutions, which include both software and outsourcing services, are designed to help our clients manage their workforce through a dynamic business and regulatory landscape and the changing world of work. We see tremendous opportunity ahead as we focus on our three key Strategic Priorities: Leading with Best-in-Class HCM technology, Providing Unmatched Expertise and Outsourcing Solutions, and Leveraging our Global Scale for the Benefit of our Clients. During fiscal 2025, we continued to make meaningful progress on our Strategic Priorities. We launched ADP Lyric HCM, an all-in-one solution designed to address workplace challenges with personalized experiences that meet client needs. We acquired WorkForce Software, a premier workforce management solutions provider, and began to integrate it into our global HCM ecosystem to better serve large, global enterprises. We enhanced our distribution network by launching an integrated payroll solution for small businesses. We augmented our global payroll capabilities by continuing to expand our offerings in markets with exciting growth opportunities like Japan and Saudi Arabia, and by acquiring payroll businesses like PEI (Procesamiento Externo de Informacion, S.C.) in Mexico. Lastly, we continued deploying AI tools in our products and across our sales, service, and research and development functions to improve the client experience and drive internal productivity gains. Highlights from the year ended June 30, 2025 include: Revenue growth of 7% to $20,560.9 million; 7% growth on an organic constant currency Earnings before income taxes margin expansion of 50 bps, and adjusted EBIT margin expansion of 50 bps Diluted and adjusted diluted earnings per share ("EPS") growth of 10% and 9%, respectively, to $9.98 and $10.01, respectively Cash returned via shareholder friendly actions of $3.7B, including $2.4B of dividends and $1.3B of share repurchases For fiscal 2025, we delivered strong revenue growth of 7% both on a reported and organic constant currency basis. Our pays per control metric, which represents the number of employees on ADP clients' payrolls in the United States when measured on a same-store-sales basis for a subset of clients ranging from small to large businesses, grew 1% for the year ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the year ended June 30, 2024. PEO average worksite employees increased 3% for the year ended June 30, 2025, as compared to the year ended June 30, 2024. Additionally, our ES new business bookings grew 3% in fiscal 2025, and ES client revenue retention was 92.1%. Our strong retention stems in part from our company-wide client satisfaction scores reaching new record highs for the year. These impressive client satisfaction results were broad-based and are a testament to the product investments we are making to improve the client experience. We have a strong business model, generating significant cash flows with low capital intensity, and offer a suite of products that provide critical support to our clients HCM functions. We generate sufficient free cash flow to satisfy our cash dividend and our modest debt obligations, which enables us to absorb the impact of downturns and remain steadfast in our long term strategy and commitments to shareholder friendly actions. We are committed to building upon our past successes by investing in our business through enhancements in research and development and by driving meaningful transformation in the way we operate. Our financial condition remains solid at June 30, 2025 and we remain well positioned to support our associates and our clients. 29 RESULTS AND ANALYSIS OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS Total Revenues For the year ended June 30, respectively: Years Ended June 30, 2025 2024 Total Revenues $ 20,560.9 $ 19,202.6 YoY Growth 7 % 7 % YoY Growth, Organic Constant Currency 7 % 6 % Revenues increased in fiscal 2025 due to new business started from new business bookings, strong client retention, an increase in zero-margin benefits pass-throughs, an increase in pricing, an increase in interest on funds held for clients, and the impact from the WorkForce Software acquisition. Refer to Analysis of Reportable Segments for additional discussion of the changes in revenue for each of our reportable segments, Employer Services and Professional Employer Organization (PEO) Services. Total revenues for fiscal 2025 include interest on funds held for clients of $1,189.1 million, as compared to $1,024.7 million in fiscal 2024. The increase in interest earned on funds held for clients resulted from an increase in our average interest rate earned to 3.2% in fiscal 2025, as compared to 2.9% in fiscal 2024, coupled with an increase in our average client funds balances of 6.4% to $37.6 billion in fiscal 2025 as compared to fiscal 2024. Total Expenses Years Ended June 30, 2025 2024 % Change Costs of revenues: Operating expenses $ 9,622.7 $ 9,050.1 6 % Research and development 988.6 955.7 3 % Depreciation and amortization 486.0 470.9 3 % Total costs of revenues 11,097.3 10,476.7 6 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 4,051.7 3,778.9 7 % Interest expense 455.9 361.4 26 % Total expenses $ 15,604.9 $ 14,617.0 7 % For the year ended June 30: Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2025 due to an increase of $313.1 million of PEO Services zero-margin benefits pass-through costs to $4,289.0 million in fiscal 2025 from $3,975.9 million in fiscal 2024. Additionally, operating expenses increased by $137.3 million due to higher service and implementation costs in support of our growing revenue and by $67.8 million due to an increase in costs related to workers' compensation coverage and state unemployment taxes for worksite employees. Research and development expenses increased in fiscal 2025 due to increased costs to develop, support, and maintain our new and existing products and the WorkForce Software acquisition. Depreciation and amortization increased in fiscal 2025 due to the WorkForce Software acquisition, amortization of investments in internally developed software primarily for our next-gen products, and amortization of purchased software, partially offset by lower amortization of customer contracts and lists. 30 Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in fiscal 2025 primarily due to increases in selling and marketing expenses of $184.4 million as a result of investments in our sales organization and an increase from acquisition related costs. Interest expense increased in fiscal 2025 primarily due to an increase of $51.1 million related to commercial paper and reverse repurchase borrowings as a result of increases in average daily commercial paper borrowings of $0.6 billion, and average reverse repurchase outstanding balances of $1.1 billion, as compared to fiscal 2024, offset by decreases in average interest rates on commercial paper issuances and reverse repurchases of 50 basis points and 70 basis points, respectively, as compared to fiscal 2024. Additionally, interest expense increased by $37.9 million related to the issuance of $1.0 billion of senior notes during the first quarter ended September 30, 2024. Other (Income)/Expense, net Years ended June 30, 2025 2024 $ Change Interest income on corporate funds $ (319.5) $ (241.3) $ 78.2 Realized losses on available-for-sale securities, net 1.7 5.9 4.2 Gain on sale of assets (5.0) (17.1) (12.1) Non-service components of pension income, net (31.3) (34.2) (2.9) Other income, net $ (354.1) $ (286.7) $ 67.4 Interest income on corporate funds increased in fiscal 2025 due to higher average investment balances of $9.2 billion as compared to $7.4 billion in fiscal 2024, coupled with an increase in average interest rates of 20 basis points, as compared to fiscal 2024. See Note 11 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on non-service components of pension income, net. In fiscal 2025, the gain on sale of assets of $5.0 million related to sales of buildings. Earnings Before Income Taxes ("EBIT") and Adjusted EBIT For the year ended June 30, respectively: Years Ended June 30, 2025 2024 YoY Growth EBIT $ 5,310.1 $ 4,872.3 9 % EBIT Margin 25.8 % 25.4 % 50 bps Adjusted EBIT $ 5,347.1 $ 4,890.1 9 % Adjusted EBIT Margin 26.0 % 25.5 % 50 bps Note: Numbers may not foot due to rounding. Earnings before income taxes increased in fiscal 2025 due to the increases in total revenues, partially offset by the increases in total expenses discussed above. EBIT Margin increased in fiscal 2025 due to contributions from client funds interest revenues, discussed above, and operating efficiencies for costs of servicing and implementing our clients on growing revenue, partially offset by increased interest expense and acquisition related expenses. Adjusted EBIT and Adjusted EBIT margin exclude interest income and interest expense that are not related to our client funds extended investment strategy, and net charges, including certain legal matters, gain on sale of assets, and broad-based optimization initiatives, in the applicable periods. 31 Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate in fiscal 2025 and 2024 was 23.2% and 23.0%, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate is primarily due to higher reserves for uncertain tax positions in fiscal 2025 and a valuation allowance release in fiscal 2024 offset by an increase in the excess tax benefit on stock-based compensation in fiscal 2025. Refer to Note 12, Income Taxes, within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Adjusted Provision for Income Taxes The adjusted effective tax rate in fiscal 2025 and 2024 was 23.2% and 23.0%, respectively. The drivers of the adjusted effective tax rate are the same as the drivers of the effective tax rate discussed above. Net Earnings and Diluted EPS, Unadjusted and Adjusted For the year ended June 30, respectively: Years Ended June 30, 2025 2024 YoY Growth Net earnings $ 4,079.7 $ 3,752.0 9 % Diluted EPS $ 9.98 $ 9.10 10 % Adjusted net earnings $ 4,092.0 $ 3,784.5 8 % Adjusted diluted EPS $ 10.01 $ 9.18 9 % For fiscal 2025, in addition to the increase in net earnings, diluted EPS increased as a result of the impact of fewer shares outstanding resulting from the repurchase of approximately 4.4 million shares during fiscal 2025 and 5.1 million shares during fiscal 2024, partially offset by the issuances of shares under our employee benefit plans. For fiscal 2025, adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS reflect the changes in components described above. 32 ANALYSIS OF REPORTABLE SEGMENTS Revenues Years Ended June 30, % Change 2025 2024 As Reported Organic Constant Currency Employer Services $ 13,883.1 $ 12,980.8 7 % 6 % PEO Services 6,690.4 6,233.6 7 % 7 % Other (12.6) (11.8) n/m n/m $ 20,560.9 $ 19,202.6 7 % 7 % Earnings before Income Taxes Years Ended June 30, % Change 2025 2024 As Reported Employer Services $ 5,008.5 $ 4,555.5 10 % PEO Services 950.5 921.5 3 % Other (648.9) (604.7) n/m $ 5,310.1 $ 4,872.3 9 % Margin Years Ended June 30, 2025 2024 YoY Growth Employer Services 36.1 % 35.1 % 100 bps PEO Services 14.2 % 14.8 % (60) bps n/m - not meaningful Employer Services Revenues Employer Services' revenues increased in fiscal 2025 due to new business started from new business bookings, strong client retention, an increase in pricing, an increase in interest earned on funds held for clients, the impact from the WorkForce Software acquisition, and an increase in the volume of our pays per control of 1%, as compared to fiscal 2024. Earnings before Income Taxes Employer Services' earnings before income taxes increased in fiscal 2025 due to increased revenues, including contributions from client funds interest, discussed above, and operating efficiencies for costs of servicing and implementing our clients on growing revenue, partially offset by increased selling and marketing expenses and the impact from the WorkForce Software acquisition. Margin Employer Services' margin increased in fiscal 2025 due to contributions from operating efficiencies for costs of servicing and implementing our clients on growing revenue, and client funds interest revenues discussed above, partially offset by acquisition related expenses. 33 PEO Services Revenues PEO Revenues Years Ended Change June 30, 2025 2024 $ % PEO Services' revenues $ 6,690.4 $ 6,233.6 $ 456.8 7 % Less: PEO zero-margin benefits pass-throughs 4,289.0 3,975.9 313.1 8 % PEO Services' revenues excluding zero-margin benefits pass-throughs $ 2,401.4 $ 2,257.7 $ 143.7 6 % PEO Services' revenues increased in fiscal 2025 due to the increase in zero-margin benefits pass-throughs, and an increase in average worksite employees of 3%, as compared to fiscal 2024. Earnings before Income Taxes PEO Services earnings before income taxes increased in fiscal 2025 due to increased revenues discussed above, partially offset by increases in operating costs related to workers' compensation and state unemployment insurance, zero-margin benefits pass-through costs, and selling and marketing expenses. Margin PEO Services' margin decreased in fiscal 2025 due to increases in zero-margin benefits pass-through costs, operating costs related to workers' compensation and state unemployment insurance, and selling and marketing expenses, partially offset by an increase in the pre-tax benefit from ADP Indemnity. ADP Indemnity provides workers compensation and employer's liability deductible reimbursement insurance protection for PEO Services worksite employees up to $1 million per occurrence. PEO Services has secured a workers compensation and employers liability insurance policy that caps the exposure for each claim at $1 million per occurrence and has also secured aggregate stop loss insurance that caps aggregate losses at a certain level in fiscal years 2012 and prior from an admitted and licensed insurance company of AIG. We utilize historical loss experience and actuarial judgment to determine the estimated claim liability, and changes in estimated ultimate incurred losses are included in the PEO segment. Additionally, starting in fiscal year 2013, ADP Indemnity paid premiums to enter into reinsurance arrangements with ACE American Insurance Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chubb Limited (Chubb), to cover substantially all losses incurred by the Company up to the $1 million per occurrence related to the workers compensation and employer's liability deductible reimbursement insurance protection for PEO Services' worksite employees. Each of these reinsurance arrangements limits our overall exposure incurred up to a certain limit. The Company believes the likelihood of ultimate losses exceeding this limit is remote. During fiscal 2025, ADP Indemnity paid a premium of $276 million to enter into a reinsurance arrangement with Chubb to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for the fiscal 2025 policy year up to $1 million per occurrence. ADP Indemnity recorded a pre-tax benefit of approximately $10 million in fiscal 2025 and a pre-tax benefit of approximately $3 million in fiscal 2024, which were primarily the results of more favorable actuarial loss development in workers compensation reserves. ADP Indemnity paid a premium of $278 million in July 2025, to enter into a reinsurance agreement with Chubb to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for fiscal 2026 policy year on terms substantially similar to the fiscal 2025 reinsurance policy. Other The primary components of Other are certain corporate overhead charges and expenses that have not been allocated to the reportable segments, including corporate functions, severance costs, non-recurring gains and losses, the elimination of intercompany transactions, and all other interest income and expense. 34 Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our GAAP results, we use the adjusted results and other non-GAAP metrics set forth in the table below to evaluate our operating performance in the absence of certain items and for planning and forecasting of future periods: Adjusted Financial Measures U.S. GAAP Measures Adjusted EBIT Net earnings Adjusted provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes Adjusted net earnings Net earnings Adjusted diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Adjusted effective tax rate Effective tax rate Organic constant currency Revenues We believe that the exclusion of the identified items helps us reflect the fundamentals of our underlying business model and analyze results against our expectations and against prior periods, and to plan for future periods by focusing on our underlying operations. We believe that the adjusted results provide relevant and useful information for investors because it allows investors to view performance in a manner similar to the method used by management and improves their ability to understand and assess our operating performance. The nature of these exclusions is for specific items that are not fundamental to our underlying business operations. Since these adjusted financial measures and other non-GAAP metrics are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, they should not be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or superior to their corresponding U.S. GAAP measures, and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures at other companies. 35 Years Ended June 30, % Change 2025 2024 As Reported Net earnings $ 4,079.7 $ 3,752.0 9 % Adjustments: Provision for income taxes 1,230.4 1,120.3 All other interest expense (a) 114.8 71.4 All other interest income (a) (94.2) (97.0) Gain on sale of assets (2.6) Transformation initiatives (b) 0.1 5.4 Legal settlements (c) (0.4) (4.0) Optimization initiatives (d) 19.3 42.0 Adjusted EBIT $ 5,347.1 $ 4,890.1 9 % Adjusted EBIT Margin 26.0 % 25.5 % Provision for income taxes $ 1,230.4 $ 1,120.3 10 % Adjustments: Gain on sale of assets (e) (0.6) Transformation initiatives (e) 1.3 Legal settlements (e) (0.1) (0.9) Optimization initiatives (e) 4.8 10.5 Adjusted provision for income taxes $ 1,234.5 $ 1,131.2 9 % Adjusted effective tax rate (f) 23.2 % 23.0 % Net earnings $ 4,079.7 $ 3,752.0 9 % Adjustments: Gain on sale of assets (2.6) Income tax provision on gain on sale of assets (e) 0.6 Transformation initiatives (b) 0.1 5.4 Income tax benefit for transformation initiatives (e) (1.3) Legal settlements (c) (0.4) (4.0) Income tax provision for legal settlements (e) 0.1 0.9 Optimization initiatives (d) 19.3 42.0 Income tax benefit for optimization initiatives (e) (4.8) (10.5) Adjusted net earnings $ 4,092.0 $ 3,784.5 8 % Diluted EPS $ 9.98 $ 9.10 10 % Adjustments: Transformation initiatives (b) (e) 0.01 Legal settlements (c) (e) (0.01) Optimization initiatives (d) (e) 0.03 0.08 Adjusted diluted EPS $ 10.01 $ 9.18 9 % (a) In adjusted EBIT, we include the interest income earned on investments associated with our client funds extended investment strategy and interest expense on borrowings related to our client funds extended investment strategy as we believe these amounts to be fundamental to the underlying operations of our business model. The adjustments in the table above represent the interest income and interest expense that are not related to our client funds extended investment strategy and are labeled as All other interest expense and All other interest income. (b) The charges in fiscal 2024 include consulting costs relating to our company-wide transformation initiatives. (c) In fiscal 2024, this represents reserve reversal of a legal matter from fiscal 2023. 36 (d) In fiscal 2025, there were $23.9 million of severance charges related to broad-based, company-wide initiatives, including efforts to align resources with respect to our new global HCM products, offset by a $4.6 million partial reversal of the workforce optimization initiative from fiscal 2024. Severance charges have been taken in the past and not included as an adjustment to get to adjusted results. Unlike severance charges in prior periods, these specific charges relate to broad-based, company-wide initiatives. (e) The income tax (benefit)/provision was calculated based on the marginal rate in effect for the year ended June 30, 2025. (f) The adjusted effective tax rate is calculated as our adjusted provision for income taxes divided by the sum of our adjusted net earnings plus our adjusted provision for income taxes. The following table reconciles our reported growth rates to the non-GAAP measure of organic constant currency, which excludes the impact of acquisitions, the impact of dispositions, and the impact of foreign currency. The impact of acquisitions and dispositions is calculated by excluding the current year revenues of acquisitions until the one-year anniversary of the transaction and by excluding the prior year revenues of divestitures for the one-year period preceding the transaction. The impact of foreign currency is determined by calculating the current year results using foreign exchange rates consistent with the prior year. The PEO segment is not impacted by acquisitions, dispositions or foreign currency. Year Ended June 30, 2025 Consolidated revenue growth as reported 7 % Adjustments: Impact of acquisitions (1) % Impact of foreign currency % Consolidated revenue growth, organic constant currency 7 % Employer Services revenue growth as reported 7 % Adjustments: Impact of acquisitions (1) % Impact of foreign currency % Employer Services revenue growth, organic constant currency 6 % Note: Numbers may not foot due to rounding. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of June 30, 2025, cash and cash equivalents were $3.3 billion, which were primarily invested in time deposits and money market funds. For corporate liquidity, we expect existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash flow from operations together with our $10.6 billion of committed credit facilities and our ability to access both long-term and short-term debt financing from the capital markets will be adequate to meet our operating, investing, and financing activities, such as regular quarterly dividends, share repurchases, and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. Our financial condition remains solid at June 30, 2025 and we have sufficient liquidity. For client funds liquidity, we have the ability to borrow through our financing arrangements under our U.S. short-term commercial paper program and our U.S., Canadian and United Kingdom short-term reverse repurchase agreements ($7.5 billion of which is available on a committed basis in the U.S. as of June 30, 2025), together with our $10.6 billion of committed credit facilities and our ability to use corporate liquidity when necessary to meet short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. Please see