ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion in our MD&A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q contains trend analyses and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies, including those discussed in Strategy and Overview of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 below, future net revenue, operating expenses, recurring revenue, annualized recurring revenue, annualized revenue per subscription, other future financial results (by product type and geography) and subscriptions, the effectiveness of our efforts to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, our expectations regarding the continued transition of our business model, our ability to increase our subscription base, expected market trends, including the growth of cloud and mobile computing, the effect of unemployment, the availability of credit, our expectations for our restructuring, the effects of mixed global economic conditions, the effects of revenue recognition, expected trends in certain financial metrics, including expenses, the impact of acquisitions and investment activities, expectations regarding our cash needs, the effects of fluctuations in exchange rates and our hedging activities on our financial results, our ability to successfully expand adoption of our products, our ability to gain market acceptance of new businesses and sales initiatives, the impact of economic volatility and geopolitical activities in certain countries, particularly emerging economy countries, the timing and amount of purchases under our stock buy-back plan, and the effects of potential non-cash charges on our financial results and the resulting effect on our financial results. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product capability and acceptance, remediation to our controls environment, statements regarding our liquidity and short-term and long-term cash requirements, as well as statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as may, believe, could, anticipate, would, might, plan, expect, and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in 24 the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those set forth below in Part II, Item 1A , Risk Factors , and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made, except as required by law. Note: A glossary of terms used in this Form 10-Q appears at the end of this Item 2. Strategy Autodesk makes software for people who make things. If you've ever driven a high-performance car, admired a towering skyscraper, used a smartphone, or watched a great film, chances are you've experienced what millions of Autodesk customers are doing with our software. Autodesk gives you the power to make anything. Autodesk was founded during the platform transition from mainframe computers and engineering workstations to personal computers. We developed and sustained a compelling value proposition based upon desktop software for the personal computer. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry over 30 years ago, we believe our industry is undergoing a similar transition from the personal computer to cloud, mobile, and social computing. To address this transition we have accelerated our move to the cloud and mobile devices and are offering more flexible licensing. Our product subscriptions currently represent a hybrid of desktop software and cloud-based functionality, which provides a device-independent, collaborative design workflow for designers, makers, and their stakeholders. Our cloud service offerings, for example, BIM 360, Shotgun, Fusion, and AutoCAD 360 Pro, provide tools, including mobile and social capabilities, to streamline design, collaboration, building and manufacturing, and data management processes. We believe that customer adoption of these new offerings will continue to grow as customers across a range of industries begin to take advantage of the scalable computing power and flexibility provided through these new services. Our strategy is to lead the industries we serve to cloud-based technologies and business models. This entails both a technological shift and a business model shift. As part of the transition, we discontinued selling new perpetual licenses of most individual software products effective February 1, 2016, and discontinued selling new perpetual licenses of suites while introducing industry collections effective August 1, 2016. Industry collections allow access to a broad set of products and services that exceeds those previously available in suites - simplifying the customer ability to get access to a complete set of tools for their industry. We now offer subscriptions for individual products and industry collections, cloud service offerings, and flexible enterprise business agreements (collectively referred to as "subscription plan" and previously called "new model subscription offerings"). These offerings are designed to give our customers more flexibility with how they use our products and service offerings and to attract a broader range of customers, such as project-based users and small businesses. With the discontinuation of the sale of most perpetual licenses, we have transitioned away from selling a mix of perpetual licenses and term-based product subscriptions toward a single subscription model. On June 1, 2017, we will commence a program to incentivize maintenance plan customers to move to subscription plan offerings. Through this program we will offer discounts to those maintenance customers that move to a subscription plan, while at the same time increasing maintenance plan pricing over time for customers that remain on maintenance. To provide more meaningful information as to the performance of different categories of product and services, we have changed our presentation of revenue and cost of revenue on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations effective the first quarter of fiscal 2018. See Note 1 , " Basis of Presentation ," for additional information. During the transition, revenue, margins, EPS, deferred revenue and cash flow from operations have been and will continue to be impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than upfront and as new product subscription offerings generally have a lower initial purchase price. As we progress through the business model transition, reported revenue is less relevant to measure the success of the business as perpetual license sales have been discontinued in favor of subscription offerings, which have considerably lower upfront prices. Annualized recurring revenue ("ARR") and growth of total subscriptions better reflect business momentum and provide additional transparency into the transition. To further analyze progress, we disaggregate our growth in these metrics between the original maintenance model ("maintenance plan") and the subscription plan. Maintenance plan subscriptions peaked in the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2016 as we discontinued selling new maintenance plan subscriptions in fiscal 2017, and we expect them to decline slowly over time as maintenance plan customers continue to convert to our subscription plan. We sell our products and services globally, through a combination of indirect and direct channels. During the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 , our indirect channels, which include value added resellers, direct market resellers, 25 distributors, computer manufacturers, and other software developers, were responsible for 70% and 75% of our overall revenue, respectively. During the same periods, our direct channels, which include internal sales resources dedicated to selling in our largest accounts, our highly specialized products, and business transacted through our online Autodesk branded store, were responsible for 30% and 25% of our overall revenue, respectively. We anticipate that our channel mix will continue to change as we scale our digitally transacted online Autodesk branded store business and our largest accounts shift towards direct-only business models. However, we expect our indirect channel will continue to transact and support the majority of our customers and revenue as we move beyond the business model transition. We employ a variety of incentive programs and promotions to align our direct and indirect channels with our business strategies. In addition, we have a worldwide user group organization and we have created online user communities dedicated to the exchange of information related to the use of our products. One of our key strategies is to maintain an open-architecture design of our software products to facilitate third-party development of complementary products and industry-specific software solutions. This approach enables customers and third parties to customize solutions for a wide variety of highly specific uses. We offer several programs that provide strategic investment funding, technological platforms, user communities, technical support, forums, and events to developers who develop add-on applications for our products. For example, we have established the Autodesk Forge program to support innovators that build solutions to facilitate the development of a single connected ecosystem for the future of how things are designed, made, and used as well as support ideas that push the boundaries of 3D printing. In addition to the competitive advantages afforded by our technology, our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, educators, and students is a key competitive advantage which has been cultivated over an extensive period of time. This network of partners and relationships provides us with a broad and deep reach into volume markets around the world. Our distributor and reseller network is extensive and provides our customers with the resources to purchase, deploy, learn, and support our products quickly and easily. We have a significant number of registered third-party developers who create products that work well with our products and extend them for a variety of specialized applications. Autodesk is committed to helping fuel a lifelong passion for design in students of all ages. We offer free educational subscriptions of Autodesk software worldwide to students, educators, and educational institutions. Through Autodesk Design Academy, we provide secondary and postsecondary school markets hundreds of standards-aligned class projects to support design-based disciplines in Science, Technology, Engineering, Digital Arts, and Math (STEAM) while using Autodesk's professional-grade 3D design, engineering and entertainment software used in industry. We also have made Autodesk Design Academy curricula available on iTunes U. Our intention is to make Autodesk software ubiquitous and the design software of choice for those poised to become the next generation of professional users. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology, and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and may, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology, and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. Our strategy depends upon a number of assumptions to successfully make the transition toward new cloud and mobile platforms, including: the related technology and business model shifts; making our technology available to mainstream markets; leveraging our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, and students; improving the performance and functionality of our products; and adequately protecting our intellectual property. If the outcome of any of these assumptions differs from our expectations, we may not be able to implement our strategy, which could potentially adversely affect our business. For further discussion regarding these and related risks, see Part II , Item 1A , Risk Factors . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on amounts reported in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We regularly reevaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1, 26 Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 . In addition, we highlighted those policies that involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity with further discussion in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended April 30, 2017 as compared to the those disclosed in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 . We believe these policies are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Overview of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 As a % of Net Revenue Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 As a % of Net Revenue $ % Net Revenue $ 485.7 100 % $ (26.2 ) (5 )% $ 511.9 100 % Cost of revenue 78.2 16 % (14.2 ) (15 )% 92.4 18 % Gross Profit 407.5 84 % (12.0 ) (3 )% 419.5 82 % Operating expenses 527.1 109 % (42.1 ) (7 )% 569.2 111 % Loss from operations $ (119.6 ) (25 )% $ 30.1 (20 )% $ (149.7 ) (29 )% We are undergoing a business model transition in which we have discontinued selling new perpetual licenses for most of our products in favor of subscriptions. During the transition, revenue, margins, EPS, deferred revenue and cash flow from operations have been and will continue to be impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than upfront and as new product subscription offerings generally have a lower initial purchase price. Revenue Analysis Net revenue decreased during the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 66% decrease in license and other revenue, partially offset by a 103% increase in subscription revenue. The 66% decrease in license and other revenue was primarily a result of the discontinuation of new perpetual licenses of suites effective August 1, 2016 and the sales of most individual perpetual products as of February 1, 2016. The 103% increase in subscription revenue was driven by an increase in subscription revenue across all subscription plan types, primarily led by product subscription. Further discussion of the drivers of these results are discussed below under the heading Results of Operations. We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (collectively, Tech Data). Total sales to Tech Data accounted for 30% of Autodesks total net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 29% for the three months ended April 30, 2016 . Our customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of our agreements with Tech Data be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. Consequently, we believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech Data. Operating Margin Analysis Our operating margin increased to (25)% for the three months ended April 30, 2017 from (29)% for the three months ended April 30, 2016 . The increase in operating margin was primarily driven by a decrease in operating expenses and cost of revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2017 , partially offset by lower revenue. The decrease in operating expenses during the three months ended April 30, 2017 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year was primarily driven by a decline in restructuring charges related to the February 2016 world-wide restructuring plan, approved by the Board of Directors ("Fiscal 2017 Plan"), as a majority of the charges were recognized during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Further discussion regarding the cost of goods sold and operating expense activities are discussed below under the heading Results of Operations. 27 Business Model Transition Metrics In order to help better understand our financial performance during and after the transition, we use several metrics including recurring revenue, total subscriptions, ARR, and annualized revenue per subscription ("ARPS"). ARR, ARPS, and recurring revenue are performance metrics and should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue as ARR and ARPS are not intended to be combined with those items. Our presentation may differ from that of other companies. Please refer to the Glossary of Terms for the definitions of these metrics. The following table outlines our recurring revenue metric for the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 : Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 Change compared to prior fiscal year end Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 (1) $ % Recurring Revenue (in millions) (2) $ 435.9 $ 67.0 18 % $ 368.9 As a percentage of net revenue 90 % N/A N/A 72 % ________________ (1) Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with the current period's presentation. (2) The acquisition of a business may cause variability in the comparison of recurring revenue in this table above and recurring revenue derived from the revenue reported in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. The following table outlines our total subscriptions, ARR and ARPS metrics as of April 30, 2017 and January 31, 2017 : April 30, 2017 Change compared to prior fiscal year end January 31, 2017 (1) % Subscriptions (in thousands) Maintenance plan 1,971.2 (46.8 ) (2 )% 2,018.0 Subscription plan 1,319.5 232.4 21 % 1,087.1 Total subscriptions 3,290.7 185.6 6 % 3,105.1 ARR (in millions) Maintenance plan ARR $ 1,051.7 $ (16.3 ) (2 )% $ 1,068.0 Subscription plan ARR 691.9 120.5 21 % 571.4 Total ARR (2) $ 1,743.6 $ 104.2 6 % $ 1,639.4 ARPS (ARR divided by number of Subscriptions) Maintenance plan ARPS $ 534 $ 5 1 % $ 529 Subscription plan ARPS 524 (2 ) % 526 Total ARPS (3) $ 530 $ 2 % $ 528 ________________ (1) Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with the current period's presentation. (2) The acquisition of a business may cause variability in the comparison of ARR reported in this table above and ARR derived from the revenue reported in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. (3) There are small variances between ARR and total subscriptions due in part to the inherent limitation with collecting all subscriptions information. For example, Buzzsaw and Constructware are included with ARR but not in total subscriptions due to these inherent limitations. We do not view these variances as meaningful to amounts or quarterly comparisons presented here for ARPS. Maintenance plan subscriptions decreased approximately 46.8 thousand from the end of fiscal 2017 , primarily as a result of the discontinuation of new maintenance agreement sales for most new products. The rate of decline will vary based on the number of maintenance plans that come up for renewal, the renewal rate, and our ability to incentivize customers to switch over to enterprise business arrangements or product subscriptions. Subscription plan subscriptions increased 21% or approximately 232.4 thousand as of April 30, 2017 as compared to the end of fiscal 2017 , primarily driven by product subscriptions, followed by cloud subscriptions. Subscription plan subscriptions 28 also benefited from growth in flexible enterprise business arrangement subscriptions. As a result of the way we count flexible enterprise business arrangement subscriptions, the growth in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 benefited from the record number of flexible enterprise business arrangement transactions in the previous quarter. Also contributing to the growth in subscription plan subscriptions was a promotion aimed at converting legacy non-subscribers, resulting in approximately 26.4 thousand product subscriptions. Total ARR increased 6% as of April 30, 2017 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 , primarily due to a 21% increase in subscription plan ARR driven by growth in all subscription plan types, led by product subscription. The increase was partially offset by a 2% decrease in maintenance plan ARR. ARPS as of April 30, 2017 was $530 , a slight increase compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 due to an increase in product subscription ARPS, which was offset by decreases in both enterprise and cloud ARPS. Our ARPS is affected by various factors including short-term shifts in subscription term-length, geography and product mix, pricing changes, and foreign currency. Going forward the ARPS calculation will continue to be extremely sensitive to short-term shifts in term-length, geography mix and promotions. We expect to see ARPS fluctuate up or down on a quarterly basis and we do not expect it will increase evenly throughout the year. As we complete our business model transition, we expect all of these impacts to start to stabilize. Foreign Currency Analysis We generate a significant amount of our revenue in the United States, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, and Canada. Our revenue was negatively impacted by foreign exchange rate changes during the three months ended April 30, 2017 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Had applicable exchange rates from the three months ended April 30, 2016 been in effect during the three months ended April 30, 2017 and had we excluded foreign exchange hedge gains and losses from the three months ended April 30, 2017 , net revenue would have decreased 4% , on a constant currency basis during the three months ended April 30, 2017 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Our total spend, defined as cost of revenue plus operating expenses, during the three months ended April 30, 2017 decreased 9% , on an as reported basis and on a constant currency basis, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Constant currency is calculated by keeping applicable exchange rates from the three months ended April 30, 2016 in effect during the three months ended April 30, 2017 and excluding foreign exchange hedge gains and losses from the three months ended April 30, 2017 . Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may have a significant effect on net revenue, total spend, and income (loss) from operations in future periods. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate effect on a portion of the net revenue of certain anticipated transactions but do not attempt to completely mitigate the impact of fluctuations of such foreign currency against the U.S. dollar. Deferred Revenue and Unbilled Deferred Revenue Our deferred revenue balance at April 30, 2017 was $1.8 billion and primarily relates to software agreements invoiced for which the revenue has not yet been recognized but will be recognized as revenue ratably over the life of the contracts. The term of our subscription contracts is typically between one and three years. We define unbilled deferred revenue as contractually stated or committed orders under multi-year billing plans for subscription, services, license and maintenance for which the associated revenue has not been recognized and the customer has not been invoiced. Unbilled deferred revenue is not included on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet until invoiced to the customer. 29 Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2017 Deferred revenue $ 1,801.5 Unbilled deferred revenue (1) (2) 30.0 Total $ 1,831.5 ________________ (1) This is our first quarter presenting this metric and we are not able to provide historical information at this time. Comparative information will not be available until our first quarter of fiscal 2019. (2) Subsequent to furnishing the preliminary financial statements on Form 8-K on May 18, 2017 for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we identified adjustments resulting in a $3.0 million increase to the unbilled deferred balance reported. We expect that the amount of unbilled deferred revenue and deferred revenue will change from quarter to quarter for several reasons, including the specific timing, duration and size of large customer subscription and support agreements, varying billing cycles of such agreements, the specific timing of customer renewals, foreign currency fluctuations and the timing of when unbilled deferred revenue is recognized as revenue. Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items At April 30, 2017 , we had $ 2.1 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We completed the three months ended April 30, 2017 with lower accounts receivable and higher deferred revenue balances as compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 . Our cash flow from operations decreased 73% to $ 45.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $ 164.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 . We repurchased 2.2 million shares of our common stock for $192.0 million during the three months ended April 30, 2017 . Comparatively, we repurchased 1.8 million shares of our common stock for $100.1 million during the three months ended April 30, 2016 . Further discussion regarding the balance sheet and cash flow activities are discussed below under the heading Liquidity and Capital Resources. Results of Operations Net Revenue Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2017 $ % April 30, 2016 Net Revenue: Maintenance (1) $ 263.6 $ (20.8 ) (7 )% $ 284.4 Subscription (1) 173.4 87.9 103 % 85.5 Total maintenance and subscription revenue 437.0 67.1 18 % 369.9 License and other (1) 48.7 (93.3 ) (66 )% 142.0 $ 485.7 $ (26.2 ) (5 )% $ 511.9 ____________________ (1) Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with current period's presentation. See Note 1 , " Basis of Presentation ", of our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information. Maintenance and Subscription Revenue Maintenance revenue consists of renewal fees for existing maintenance plan agreements. Our maintenance plans provide our customers with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance plan, customers are eligible to 30 receive unspecified upgrades, when and if available, and technical support. We recognize maintenance revenue over the term of the agreements, generally between one and three years. Subscription revenue consists of our term-based product subscriptions, cloud service offerings, and flexible enterprise business arrangements. Note that with the change in our condensed consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, our term-based product subscriptions and flexible enterprise business arrangements are classified and presented in a single line item. Revenue from these arrangements is recognized ratably over the contract term. Revenue for our cloud service offerings is recognized ratably over the contract term commencing with the date our service is made available to customers. The 7% decrease in maintenance revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2016 , was primarily attributable to the discontinuation of new maintenance agreements for most new products. We expect maintenance revenue will slowly decline; however, the rate of decline will vary based on the number of renewals, the renewal rate, and our ability to incentivize maintenance plan customers to switch over to subscription plan offerings. Subscription revenue increased 103% during the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2016 , primarily driven by a 227% increase in product subscription revenue and a 32% increase in revenue from flexible enterprise business agreements. License and Other Revenue License and other revenue consists of (1) perpetual license revenue and (2) other revenue. Perpetual license revenue includes software license revenue from the sale of perpetual licenses and Creative Finishing. Other revenue includes revenue such as consulting and training, and is recognized over time as the services are performed. License and other revenue decreased 66% during the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2016 primarily due to a decrease in license revenue. The decrease in license revenue is a result of the business model transition, resulting in an 80% decrease in revenue from perpetual licenses as we have discontinued selling perpetual seats for most of our product offerings. Within license and other revenue, there was a 20% decrease in other revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2016 driven by a decline in consulting revenue. Other revenue represented 6% and 7% of total net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Net Revenue by Product Family Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2017 $ % April 30, 2016 Net Revenue by Product Family: Architecture, Engineering and Construction ("AEC") $ 204.5 $ (14.4 ) (7 )% $ 218.9 Manufacturing ("MFG") 142.1 (15.9 ) (10 )% 158.0 AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT ("ACAD") (1) 91.5 5.6 7 % 85.9 Media and Entertainment ("M&E") 36.5 1.5 4 % 35.0 Other (1) 11.1 (3.0 ) (21 )% 14.1 $ 485.7 $ (26.2 ) (5 )% $ 511.9 ____________________ (1) Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with current period's presentation. Our product offerings are focused in four primary product families: AEC, MFG, ACAD, and M&E. During the business model transition, revenue has been and will be negatively impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than upfront and as new product offerings generally have a lower initial purchase price. As part of the transition, we discontinued selling new perpetual licenses of most individual software products and new perpetual licenses of suites in fiscal 2017. These broad impacts are reflected in the drivers below. During the three months ended April 30, 2017 , net revenue for the AEC product family decreased by 7% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to 29% decrease in revenue from our AEC suites, partially offset by a 12% increase from individual subscription product offerings. 31 During the three months ended April 30, 2017 , net revenue for the MFG product family decreased by 10% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to a 27% decrease in our MFG suites as well as 1% decrease in individual subscription product offerings. During the three months ended April 30, 2017 , net revenue for the ACAD product family increased by 7% , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to a 31% increase in AutoCAD LT, partially offset by a 4% decrease in AutoCAD. During the three months ended April 30, 2017 , net revenue for the M&E product family increased by 4% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an 11% increase in Animation, partially offset by a 38% decrease in Creative Finishing. Net Revenue by Geographic Area (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 As a % of Net Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 As a % of Net Revenue Net Revenue: Americas $ 210.1 43 % $ 217.7 43 % Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") 189.7 39 % 202.6 40 % Asia Pacific ("APAC") 85.9 18 % 91.6 18 % Total Net Revenue (1) $ 485.7 100 % $ 511.9 100 % ____________________ (1) Totals may not sum due to rounding. Net revenue in the Americas geography decreased by 3% on an as reported basis and 4% on a constant currency basis during the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Net revenue in the Americas attributable to the United States was approximately 86% and 85% for the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. International net revenue represented 63% and 64% of our net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Net revenue in the EMEA geography decreased by 6% on an as reported basis and 3% on a constant currency basis during the three months ended April 30, 2017 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Net revenue in the APAC geography decreased by 6% on an as reported basis and on a constant currency basis during the three months ended April 30, 2017 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. We believe that international revenue will continue to comprise a majority of our net revenue. Unfavorable economic conditions in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including in emerging economies such as Brazil, Russia, India, and China, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies have significantly affected, and could continue to significantly affect, our financial results for a given period even though we hedge a portion of our current and projected revenue. Weak global economic conditions that have been characterized by restructuring of sovereign debt, high unemployment, and volatility in the financial markets may impact our future financial results. Additionally, during the business model transition, revenue has been and will be negatively impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than upfront and as new product offerings generally have a lower initial purchase price. This transition has a particular impact to emerging economies as sales of perpetual licenses have historically comprised a greater percentage of total emerging economy sales in comparison to mature markets. Net revenue in emerging economies decreased by 8% on an as reported basis and 7% on a constant currency basis during the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Revenue from emerging economies represented 10% and 11% of net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. 32 Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2017 $ % April 30, 2016 Cost of revenue: Maintenance and subscription (1) $ 54.9 $ 8.3 18 % $ 46.6 License and other (1) 18.6 (16.3 ) (47 )% 34.9 Amortization of developed technology (1) 4.7 (6.2 ) (57 )% 10.9 $ 78.2 $ (14.2 ) (15 )% $ 92.4 As a percentage of net revenue 16 % 18 % ____________________ (1) Prior periods have been adjusted to conform with current period's presentation. See Note 1 , Basis of Presentation , of our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information. Cost of maintenance and subscription revenue includes the labor costs of providing product support to our maintenance and subscription customers, including allocated IT and facilities costs, shipping and handling costs, professional services fees related to operating our network and cloud infrastructure, depreciation expense and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries, related expenses of network operations, and stock-based compensation expense. Cost of maintenance and subscription revenue increased 18% during the three months ended April 30, 2017 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increases in employee related costs slightly offset by lower cloud-related costs. Cost of license and other revenue includes labor costs associated with product setup and fulfillment for perpetual licenses and costs of consulting and training services contracts and collaborative project management services contracts. Cost of license and other revenue also includes stock-based compensation expense, direct material and overhead charges, allocated IT and facilities costs, professional services fees and royalties. Direct material and overhead charges include the cost associated with electronic and physical fulfillment. Cost of license and other revenue decreased 47% for the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to lower employee related costs from reduced headcount associated with license and other revenue products and services, and decreases in direct material costs as a result of the business model transition, as we generally no longer fulfill perpetual license orders. Amortization of developed technology decreased 57% for the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, as previously acquired developed technology continues to become fully amortized. In addition, there were no acquisitions during the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Cost of revenue, at least over the near term, is affected by the volume and mix of product sales, mix of physical versus electronic fulfillment, fluctuations in consulting costs, amortization of developed technology, new customer support offerings, royalty rates for licensed technology embedded in our products and employee stock-based compensation expense. We expect cost of revenue to decrease in absolute dollars and remain flat as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2017 . 33 Marketing and Sales Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2017 $ % April 30, 2016 Marketing and sales $ 255.7 $ 14.9 6 % $ 240.8 As a percentage of net revenue 53 % 47 % Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our marketing and sales employees, the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and expositions, and various sales and promotional programs. Marketing and sales expenses also include labor costs associated with sales and order management, sales and dealer commissions, payment processing fees, the cost of supplies and equipment, gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges, and allocated IT and facilities costs. Marketing and sales expenses increased 6% for the three months ended April 30, 2017 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increases in employee-related costs and stock-based compensation expense on increased headcount. We expect marketing and sales expenses to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2017 . Research and Development Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2017 $ % April 30, 2016 Research and development $ 187.7 $ (5.8 ) (3 )% $ 193.5 As a percentage of net revenue 39 % 38 % Research and development expenses, which are expensed as incurred, consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for research and development employees, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, professional services such as fees paid to software development firms and independent contractors, gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges, and allocated IT and facilities costs. Research and development expenses decreased 3% during the three months ended April 30, 2017 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a decrease in employee related costs on lower headcount and a decrease in professional fees, partially offset by an increase in stock-based compensation expense. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2017 . General and Administrative Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2017 $ % April 30, 2016 General and administrative $ 78.3 $ 3.6 5 % $ 74.7 As a percentage of net revenue 16 % 15 % General and administrative expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our finance, human resources and legal employees, as well as professional fees for legal and accounting services, certain foreign business taxes, gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges, expense of travel, entertainment and training, IT and facilities costs, and the cost of supplies and equipment. 34 General and administrative expenses increased 5% during the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to costs associated with the transition of our former CEO, partially offset by a decrease in professional fees and a decrease in employee-related costs on lower headcount. We expect general and administrative expenses to slightly increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2017 . Amortization of Purchased Intangibles Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2017 $ % April 30, 2016 Amortization of purchased intangibles $ 5.7 $ (2.2 ) (28 )% $ 7.9 As a percentage of net revenue 1 % 2 % Amortization of purchased intangibles decreased 28% during the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, as previously acquired intangible assets continue to become fully amortized. In addition, there were no acquisitions during the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. We expect amortization of purchased intangibles to decrease in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2017 . Restructuring (Benefits) Charges and Other Facility Exit Costs, Net Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2017 $ % April 30, 2016 Restructuring (benefits) charges and other facility exit costs, net $ (0.3 ) $ (52.6 ) * $ 52.3 As a percentage of net revenue % 10 % ____________________ * Percentage is not meaningful. Restructuring (benefits) charges and other facility exit costs, net decreased $52.6 million during the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, as the majority of the Fiscal 2017 Plan was recognized during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. See Note 13 , "Restructuring (Benefits) Charges and Other Facility Exit Costs, Net" in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Interest and Other Expense, Net The following table sets forth the components of interest and other expense, net: Three Months Ended April 30, (in millions) 2017 2016 Interest and investment expense, net $ (6.9 ) $ (6.5 ) (Loss) gain on foreign currency (1.0 ) 1.3 Gain on strategic investments and dispositions 5.7 0.5 Other income 0.4 1.1 Interest and other expense, net $ (1.8 ) $ (3.6 ) Interest and other expense, net decreased $1.8 million during the three months ended April 30, 2017 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to realized gains on the disposition of certain intangible assets. 35 Interest expense and investment income fluctuates based on average cash, marketable securities and debt balances, average maturities and interest rates. Gains and losses on foreign currency are primarily due to the impact of re-measuring foreign currency transactions and net monetary assets into the functional currency of the corresponding entity. The amount of the gain or loss on foreign currency is driven by the volume of foreign currency transactions and the foreign currency exchange rates for the period. Provision for Income Taxes We account for income taxes and the related accounts under the liability method. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the basis differences reverse. Income tax expense was $ 8.2 million and $ 14.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Income tax expense consists primarily of foreign taxes and U.S. tax expense related to indefinite-lived intangibles. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when management cannot conclude that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax asset will be recovered. The valuation allowance is determined by assessing both positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable; such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. Significant judgment is required in determining whether the valuation allowance should be recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results and estimates of future taxable income. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, we considered recent cumulative losses in the United States arising from the Company's business model transition as a significant source of negative evidence. Considering this negative evidence and the absence of sufficient positive objective evidence that we would generate sufficient taxable income in our United States tax jurisdiction to realize the deferred tax assets, we determined that it was not more likely than not that the Company would realize the U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets and recorded a full valuation allowance. As we continually strive to optimize our overall business model, tax planning strategies may become feasible whereby management may determine that it is more likely than not that the federal and state deferred tax assets will be realized; as a result, we will continue to evaluate the realizability of our net deferred tax assets each quarter, both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, based on all available evidence, both positive and negative. As of April 30, 2017 , we had $263.9 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest, of which approximately $249.9 million represents the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would impact the effective tax rate, if recognized. However, this rate impact would be $31.9 million to the extent that recognition of unrecognized tax benefits currently presented as a reduction of deferred tax assets would increase the valuation allowance. It is possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change in the next twelve months; however, an estimate of the range of the possible change cannot be made at this time. Our future effective tax rate may be materially impacted by the amount of benefits and charges from tax amounts associated with our foreign earnings that are taxed at rates different from the federal statutory rate, research credits, state income taxes, the tax impact of stock-based compensation, accounting for uncertain tax positions, business combinations, U.S. Manufacturer's deduction, closure of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits, changes in valuation allowances and changes in tax laws including possible U.S. tax law changes that, if enacted, could significantly impact how U.S. multinational companies are taxed on foreign subsidiary earnings. A significant amount of our earnings is generated by our Europe and APAC subsidiaries. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates or we repatriate certain foreign earnings on which U.S. taxes have not previously been provided. The Internal Revenue Service has started an examination of the Company's U.S. consolidated federal income tax returns for fiscal years 2014 and 2015. While it is possible that the Company's tax positions may be challenged, the Company believes its positions are consistent with the tax law, and the balance sheet reflects appropriate liabilities for uncertain federal tax positions for the years being examined. 36 Other Financial Information In addition to our results determined under GAAP discussed above, we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance. For the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 , our gross profit, gross margin, loss from operations, operating margin, net loss, diluted net loss per share and diluted shares used in per share calculation on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis were as follows (in millions except for gross margin, operating margin, and per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 2016 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 407.5 $ 419.5 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 416.1 $ 433.8 Gross margin 84 % 82 % Non-GAAP gross margin 86 % 85 % Loss from operations $ (119.6 ) $ (149.7 ) Non-GAAP loss from operations $ (39.5 ) $ (27.0 ) Operating margin (25 )% (29 )% Non-GAAP operating margin (8 )% (5 )% Net loss $ (129.6 ) $ (167.7 ) Non-GAAP net loss $ (34.8 ) $ (23.0 ) GAAP diluted net loss per share (1) $ (0.59 ) $ (0.75 ) Non-GAAP diluted net loss per share (1) $ (0.16 ) $ (0.10 ) GAAP diluted shares used in per share calculation 219.9 224.4 Non-GAAP diluted weighted average shares used in per share calculation 219.9 224.4 _______________ (1) Net loss per share was computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the net loss per share amount for the quarters may not equal the total for the year. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons, we use non-GAAP measures to supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis. These non-GAAP measures do not include certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. We also use non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe those measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our earning potential and performance for management by excluding certain expenses and charges that may not be indicative of our core business operating results. For the reasons set forth below, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. This allows investors and others to better understand and evaluate our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as management, compare financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies and to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. We also use some of these measures for purposes of determining company-wide incentive compensation. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures included above are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which charges are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our public disclosures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is meant to be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from, the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 37 Reconciliation of GAAP Financial Measures to Non-GAAP Financial Measures (In millions except for gross margin, operating margin, and per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 2016 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 407.5 $ 419.5 Stock-based compensation expense 3.9 3.4 Amortization of developed technologies 4.7 10.9 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 416.1 $ 433.8 Gross margin 84 % 82 % Stock-based compensation expense 1 % 1 % Amortization of developed technologies 1 % 2 % Non-GAAP gross margin 86 % 85 % Loss from operations $ (119.6 ) $ (149.7 ) Stock-based compensation expense 59.0 51.6 Amortization of developed technologies 4.7 10.9 Amortization of purchased intangibles 5.7 7.9 CEO transition costs (1) 11.0 Restructuring (benefits) charges and other facility exit costs, net (0.3 ) 52.3 Non-GAAP loss from operations $ (39.5 ) $ (27.0 ) Operating margin (25 )% (29 )% Stock-based compensation expense 12 % 10 % Amortization of developed technologies 1 % 2 % Amortization of purchased intangibles 1 % 2 % CEO transition costs (1) 2 % % Restructuring (benefits) charges and other facility exit costs, net % 10 % Non-GAAP operating margin (2) (8 )% (5 )% Net loss $ (129.6 ) $ (167.7 ) Stock-based compensation expense 59.0 51.6 Amortization of developed technologies 4.7 10.9 Amortization of purchased intangibles 5.7 7.9 CEO transition costs (1) 11.0 Restructuring (benefits) charges and other facility exit costs, net (0.3 ) 52.3 Gain on strategic investments and dispositions (5.7 ) (0.5 ) Discrete tax items (7.6 ) (1.9 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments 28.0 24.4 Non-GAAP net loss $ (34.8 ) $ (23.0 ) 38 Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 2016 (Unaudited) GAAP diluted net loss per share (3) $ (0.59 ) $ (0.75 ) Stock-based compensation expense 0.27 0.23 Amortization of developed technologies 0.02 0.05 Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.03 0.04 CEO transition costs (1) 0.04 Restructuring (benefits) charges and other facility exit costs, net 0.23 Gain on strategic investments and dispositions (0.03 ) Discrete tax items (0.03 ) (0.01 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments 0.13 0.11 Non-GAAP diluted net (loss) per share (3) $ (0.16 ) $ (0.10 ) ____________________ (1) CEO transition costs include stock-based compensation of $7.8 million related to the acceleration of eligible stock awards in conjunction with the Company's former CEO's transition agreement. (2) Totals may not sum due to rounding. (3) Net loss per share was computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the net loss per share amount for the quarters may not equal the total for the year. Our non-GAAP financial measures may exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expenses. We exclude stock-based compensation expenses from non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use under FASB ASC Topic 718, we believe excluding stock-based compensation expenses allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangibles. We incur amortization of acquisition-related developed technology and purchased intangibles in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangibles is inconsistent in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of our acquisitions. Management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges from our cost of revenues to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangible assets will recur in future periods. CEO transition costs. We exclude amounts paid to the Company's former CEO, upon his departure under the terms of his transition agreement, including his severance payment and the continued vesting of his performance stock units, legal fees incurred with the transition, and recruiting costs related to the search for a new CEO from our non-GAAP measures because they represent non-recurring expenses and are not indicative of our ongoing operating expenses. We further believe that excluding the CEO transition costs from our non-GAAP results is useful to investors in that it allows for period-over-period comparability. Goodwill impairment. This is a non-cash charge to write-down goodwill to fair value when there was an indication that the asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Restructuring charges and other facility exit costs (benefits), net. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions or other exit actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, the closure of facilities and cancellation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing business and operating results. We believe it is useful for investors to understand the effects of these items on our total operating expenses. Loss (gain) on strategic investments and dispositions. We exclude gains and losses related to our strategic investments and dispositions from our non-GAAP measures primarily because management finds it useful to exclude these variable gains and losses on these investments and dispositions in assessing our financial results. Included in these amounts are non-cash 39 unrealized gains and losses on the derivative components, realized gains and losses on the sales or losses on the impairment of these investments and dispositions. We believe excluding these items is useful to investors because these excluded items do not correlate to the underlying performance of our business and these losses or gains were incurred in connection with strategic investments and dispositions which do not occur regularly. Discrete tax items. We exclude the GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from the non-GAAP measure of income, and include a non-GAAP tax provision based upon the projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Discrete tax items include income tax expenses or benefits that do not relate to ordinary income from continuing operations in the current fiscal year, unusual or infrequently occurring items, or the tax impact of certain stock-based compensation. Examples of discrete tax items include, but are not limited to, certain changes in judgment and changes in estimates of tax matters related to prior fiscal years, certain costs related to business combinations, certain changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets or changes in tax law. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to ongoing operations. We believe the exclusion of these discrete tax items provides investors with useful supplemental information about our operational performance. Establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets. This is a non-cash charge to record a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various cash expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP expenses, primarily due to stock-based compensation, amortization of purchased intangibles and restructuring charges and other facilities exit costs (benefits) for GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of cash is from the sale and maintenance of our products. Our primary use of cash is payment of our operating costs, which consist primarily of employee-related expenses, such as compensation and benefits, as well as general operating expenses for marketing, facilities and overhead costs. In addition to operating expenses, we also use cash to fund our stock repurchase program and invest in our growth initiatives, which include acquisitions of products, technology and businesses. See further discussion of these items below. At April 30, 2017 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $2.1 billion and net accounts receivable of $231.5 million . Net of our senior notes, we have cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $584.2 million at April 30, 2017 . In June 2015, we issued $ 450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.125% notes due June 15, 2020 and $ 300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% notes due June 15, 2025 . In December 2012, we issued $ 400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.95% notes due December 15, 2017 and $ 350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.6% notes due December 15, 2022 (all four series of notes collectively, the Notes). As of May 31, 2017 , we have $ 1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of Notes outstanding. In addition, we have a line of credit facility that permits unsecured short-term borrowings of up to $ 400.0 million with a May 2020 maturity date. This credit agreement contains customary covenants that could restrict the imposition of liens on Autodesks assets, and restrict the Companys ability to incur additional indebtedness or make dispositions of assets if Autodesk fails to maintain the financial covenants. As the result of a forecasted inability to comply with the credit agreement's minimum interest coverage ratio in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company renegotiated the credit agreement financial covenants in April 2017. The financial covenants now consist of a maximum debt to total cash ratio, a fixed charge coverage ratio through April 30, 2018, and after April 30, 2018, a minimum interest coverage ratio. As of May 31, 2017 , we have no amounts outstanding under the credit facility. Borrowings under the credit facility and the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes are available for general corporate purposes. Our cash and cash equivalents are held by diversified financial institutions globally. Our primary commercial banking relationship is with Citigroup and its global affiliates. In addition, Citibank N.A., an affiliate of Citigroup, is one of the lead lenders and agent in the syndicate of our $400.0 million line of credit. Long-term cash requirements for items other than normal operating expenses are anticipated for the following: repayment of debt; common stock repurchases; the acquisition of businesses, software products, or technologies complementary to our business; and capital expenditures, including the purchase and implementation of internal-use software applications. 40 Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology, and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology, and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. Our decision to acquire businesses or technology is dependent on our business needs, the availability of suitable sellers and technology, and our own financial condition. As of April 30, 2017 , there have been no material changes in our contractual obligations or commercial commitments compared to those we disclosed in managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 . Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances are concentrated in a few locations around the world, with substantial amounts held outside of the United States. As of April 30, 2017 , approximately 80% of our total cash or cash equivalents, and marketable securities are located in foreign jurisdictions and that percentage will fluctuate subject to business needs. There are several factors that can impact our ability to utilize foreign cash balances, such as foreign exchange restrictions, foreign regulatory restrictions or adverse tax costs. Our intent is that amounts related to foreign earnings permanently reinvested outside the U.S. will remain outside the United States. We expect to meet our U.S. liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, foreign cash for which U.S. federal income taxes have been provided, external borrowings, or a combination. We regularly review our capital structure and consider a variety of potential financing alternatives and planning strategies to ensure we have the proper liquidity available in the locations in which it is needed. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors . However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our revenue, earnings, cash flows, receivables, and payables are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, for which we have put in place foreign currency contracts as part of our risk management strategy. See Part II, Item 7A,