ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion in our MD&A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q contains trend analyses and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies, including those discussed in Strategy and Overview of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 below, future net revenue, operating expenses, recurring revenue, annualized recurring revenue, annualized revenue per subscription, other future financial results (by product type and geography) and subscriptions, the effectiveness of our restructuring efforts, the effectiveness of our efforts to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, our expectations regarding the continued transition of our business model, expectations for our maintenance plan and subscription plan subscriptions, our ability to increase our subscription base, expected market trends, including the growth of cloud and mobile computing, the effect of unemployment, the availability of credit, our expectations for our restructuring, the effects of global economic conditions, the effects of revenue recognition, the effects of recently issued accounting standards, expected trends in certain financial metrics, including expenses, the impact of acquisitions and investment activities, expectations regarding our cash needs, the effects of fluctuations in exchange rates and our hedging activities on our financial results, our ability to successfully expand adoption of our products, our ability to gain market acceptance of new businesses and sales initiatives, the impact of economic volatility and geopolitical activities in certain countries, particularly emerging economy countries, the timing and amount of purchases under our stock buy-back plan, and the effects of potential non-cash charges on our financial results and the resulting effect on our financial results. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product capability and acceptance, remediation to our controls environment, statements regarding our liquidity and short-term and long-term cash requirements, as well as statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as may, believe, could, anticipate, would, might, plan, expect, and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those set forth below in Part II, Item 1A , Risk Factors , and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made, except as required by law. Note: A glossary of terms used in this Form 10-Q appears at the end of this Item 2. Strategy Autodesk makes software for people who make things. If you have ever driven a high-performance car, admired a towering skyscraper, used a smartphone, or watched a great film, chances are you have experienced what millions of Autodesk customers are doing with our software. Autodesk gives you the power to make anything. Autodesk was founded during the platform transition from mainframe computers and engineering workstations to personal computers. We developed and sustained a compelling value proposition based upon desktop software for the personal computer. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry over 30 years ago, we believe our industry is undergoing a similar transition from the personal computer to cloud, mobile, and social computing. To address this transition, we have accelerated our move to the cloud and mobile devices and are offering more flexible licensing. Our product subscriptions currently represent a hybrid of desktop software and cloud functionality, which provides a device-independent, collaborative design workflow for designers and their stakeholders. Our SaaS offerings, for example, BIM 360, Shotgun, Fusion, and AutoCAD 360 Pro, provide tools, including mobile and social capabilities, to streamline design, collaboration, building and manufacturing and data management processes. We believe that customer adoption of these new offerings will continue to grow as customers across a range of industries begin to take advantage of the scalable computing power and flexibility provided through these new services. Our strategy is to build an enduring relationship with our customers, delivering valuable automation and insight to their design and make processes. Industry collections provide our customers with increased access to a broader selection of Autodesk products and services that exceeds those previously available in suites - simplifying the customer ability to get access to a complete set of tools for their industry. We now offer subscriptions for individual products and industry collections, flexible enterprise business agreements ("EBAs"), and cloud service offerings (collectively referred to as "subscription plan"). These subscription plan offerings are designed to give our customers more flexibility with how they use our products and service offerings and to attract a broader range of customers, such as project-based users and small businesses. 29 With the discontinuation of the sale of most perpetual licenses, we have transitioned away from selling a mix of perpetual licenses and term-based product subscriptions toward a single subscription model. On June 15, 2017, we commenced a program to incentivize maintenance plan customers to move to subscription plan offerings. Through this program we offer discounts to those maintenance customers that move to a subscription plan, while at the same time increasing maintenance plan pricing over time for customers that remain on maintenance. As we progress through the current stage of the business model transition, annualized recurring revenue ("ARR"), growth of billings, and total subscriptions better reflect business momentum. To analyze progress, we disaggregate our growth between the original maintenance model ("maintenance plan") and the subscription plan model. Maintenance plan subscriptions peaked in the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2016 as we discontinued selling new maintenance plan subscriptions in fiscal 2017, and we expect them to decline slowly over time as maintenance plan customers continue to convert to our subscription plans. We sell our products and services globally, through a combination of indirect and direct channels. Our indirect channels include value added resellers, direct market resellers, distributors, computer manufacturers, and other software developers. Our direct channels include internal sales resources dedicated to selling in our largest accounts, our highly specialized products, and business transacted through our online Autodesk branded store. The following chart shows our split between indirect and direct channels for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 : We anticipate that our channel mix will continue to change as we scale our online Autodesk branded store business and our largest accounts shift towards direct-only business models. However, we expect our indirect channel will continue to transact and support the majority of our customers and revenue as we move beyond the business model transition. We employ a variety of incentive programs and promotions to align our direct and indirect channels with our business strategies. In addition, we have a worldwide user group organization and we have created online user communities dedicated to the exchange of information related to the use of our products. One of our key strategies is to maintain an open-architecture design of our software products to facilitate third-party development of complementary products and industry-specific software solutions. This approach enables customers and third parties to customize solutions for a wide variety of highly specific uses. We offer several programs that provide strategic investment funding, technological platforms, user communities, technical support, forums, and events to developers who develop add-on applications for our products. For example, we have established the Autodesk Forge program to support 30 innovators that build solutions to facilitate the development of a single connected ecosystem for the future of how things are designed, made, and used as well as support ideas that push the boundaries of 3D printing. In addition to the competitive advantages afforded by our technology, our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, educators, and students is a key competitive advantage which has been cultivated over an extensive period of time. This network of partners and relationships provides us with a broad and deep reach into volume markets around the world. Our distributor and reseller network is extensive and provides our customers with the resources to purchase, deploy, learn, and support our products quickly and easily. We have a significant number of registered third-party developers who create products that work well with our products and extend them for a variety of specialized applications. Autodesk is committed to helping fuel a lifelong passion for making with students of all ages. We offer free educational licenses of Autodesk software worldwide to students, educators, and accredited educational institutions. We inspire and support beginners with Tinkercad, a simple online 3D design and 3D printing tool. Through Autodesk Design Academy, we provide secondary and postsecondary school markets hundreds of standards-aligned class projects to support design-based disciplines in Science, Technology, Engineering, Digital Arts, and Math (STEAM) while using Autodesk's professional-grade 3D design, engineering and entertainment software used in industry. We also have made Autodesk Design Academy curricula available on Udemy and Coursera. Our intention is to make Autodesk software ubiquitous and the design and making software of choice for those poised to become the next generation of professional users. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology, and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and may, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology, and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. Our strategy depends upon a number of assumptions to successfully make the transition toward new cloud and mobile platforms, including: the related technology and business model shifts; making our technology available to mainstream markets; leveraging our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, and students; improving the performance and functionality of our products; and adequately protecting our intellectual property. If the outcome of any of these assumptions differs from our expectations, we may not be able to implement our strategy, which could potentially adversely affect our business. For further discussion regarding these and related risks, see Part II , Item 1A , Risk Factors . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on amounts reported in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We regularly reevaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 . In addition, we highlighted those policies that involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity with further discussion in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to those disclosed in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 , except for the adoption of Accounting Standard Codification ("ASC") Topics 606 and 340-40. For changes made to our revenue recognition policy as a result of the adoption of ASC Topics 606 and 340-40, refer to Note 3 , " Revenue Recognition " and Note 10 , " Deferred Compensation ," in the Notes to the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We believe these policies are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Overview of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 Total net revenue was $559.9 million , an increase of 15 percent compared to the same period in the prior year. 31 Total ARR was $2.13 billion , an increase of 22 percent compared to the same period in the prior year. Total subscriptions increased to 3.82 million . Total spend (cost of revenue + operating expenses) increased 2 percent compared to the same period in the prior year. We adopted ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 during the first quarter of 2018. Under the modified retrospective transition method, we recorded a cumulative decrease of $178.0 million to the opening balance of accumulated deficit at February 1, 2018. See discussion below for additional information regarding certain metrics that were affected by the new standards under the heading Impact of New Revenue Accounting Standard." Under ASC 605, deferred revenue was $1.9 billion , an increase of approximately 8 percent compared to the first quarter last year. Revenue Analysis Net revenue increased during the three months ended April 30, 2018 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 102% increase in subscription revenue, partially offset by a 31% decrease in maintenance revenue. Further discussion of the drivers of these results are discussed below under the heading Results of Operations. We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (collectively, Tech Data). Total sales to Tech Data accounted for 34% and 30% of Autodesks total net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Our customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of our agreements with Tech Data be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. Consequently, we believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech Data. Recurring Revenue and Subscriptions In order to help better understand our financial performance during and after the business model transition, we use several metrics including recurring revenue, total subscriptions, ARR, and annualized revenue per subscription ("ARPS"). ARR, ARPS, total subscriptions, and recurring revenue are performance metrics and should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue as ARR, ARPS, and recurring revenue are not intended to be combined with those items. Our determination and presentation may differ from that of other companies. Please refer to the Glossary of Terms for the definitions of these metrics. The following table outlines our recurring revenue metric for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 : (In millions, except percentage data) Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 $ % Recurring Revenue (1) $ 531.6 $ 95.7 22 % $ 435.9 As a percentage of net revenue 95 % N/A N/A 90 % ________________ (1) The acquisition of a business may cause variability in the comparison of recurring revenue in this table above and recurring revenue derived from the revenue reported in the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 32 The following table outlines our ARR, subscriptions and ARPS metrics as of April 30, 2018 and January 31, 2018 . For purposes of clarifications, the ARR and ARPS balances in the following table as of April 30, 2018 are calculated under ASC Topic 606. For comparison of ARR and ARPS as of April 30, 2018 under the old revenue standard, ASC 605, refer to the table under the title "Impact of New Revenue Accounting Standard" further below. Balances, April 30, 2018 Change compared to prior fiscal year end Balances, January 31, 2018 (1) $ % ARR (in millions) Subscription plan ARR $ 1,401.5 $ 226.5 19 % $ 1,175.0 Maintenance plan ARR 724.9 (154.2 ) (18 )% 879.1 Total ARR (1) $ 2,126.4 $ 72.3 4 % $ 2,054.1 Number of Subscriptions (in thousands) Subscription plan 2,574.3 307.5 14 % 2,266.8 Maintenance plan 1,242.6 (206.3 ) (14 )% 1,448.9 Total subscriptions 3,816.9 101.2 3 % 3,715.7 ARPS (ARR divided by number of Subscriptions) Subscription plan ARPS $ 544 $ 26 5 % $ 518 Maintenance plan ARPS 583 (24 ) (4 )% 607 Total ARPS (2) $ 557 $ 4 1 % $ 553 ________________ (1) The acquisition of a business may cause variability in the comparison of ARR reported in this table above and ARR derived from the revenue reported in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. (2) There are small variances between ARR and total subscriptions due in part to the inherent limitation with collecting all subscriptions information. For example, Buzzsaw and Constructware are included with ARR but not in total subscriptions due to these inherent limitations. We do not view these variances as meaningful to amounts or quarterly comparisons presented here for ARPS. Total ARR increase d 4% as of April 30, 2018 under ASC 606 as compared to the end of fiscal 2018 , primarily due to a 19% increase in subscription plan ARR driven by growth in product subscription. The increase was partially offset by an 18% decrease in maintenance plan ARR driven by the migration from maintenance plan subscriptions to subscription plan subscriptions. Under ASC 605, total ARR increased 6% as of April 30, 2018 as compared to the end of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a 21% increase in subscription plan ARR, partially offset by a 15% decrease in maintenance plan ARR. Subscription plan subscriptions increase d 14% or approximately 307,500 as compared to the end of fiscal 2018 , driven by growth in all subscription plan types, led by new product subscriptions. Subscription plan subscriptions benefited from approximately 154,000 maintenance subscribers that were converted to product subscription under the maintenance-to-subscription program during the three months ended April 30, 2018 , respectively. Maintenance plan subscriptions decreased 14% or approximately 206,300 from the end of fiscal 2018 , primarily as a result of the maintenance-to-subscription program in which approximately 154,000 maintenance plan subscriptions converted to product subscription during the three months ended April 30, 2018 . The net decrease is expected and we expect to see ongoing declines in maintenance plan subscriptions going forward as part of the business model transition. The rate of decline will vary based on the number of subscriptions subject to renewal, the renewal rate, and our ability to incentivize customers to switch over to EBAs or product subscriptions. ARPS as of April 30, 2018 was $557 under ASC 606 and $569 under ASC 605, a slight increase compared to the end of fiscal 2018 due to an increase in subscription plan ARPS. The increase in subscription plan ARPS was driven by an increase in product subscription ARPS. When adjusted for the impact of the maintenance-to-subscription program, subscription plan ARPS and maintenance plan ARPS would have been $543 and $574, respectively. 33 Our ARPS is currently, and will continue to be, affected by various factors including the maintenance-to-subscription (M2S) program, geography and product mix, promotions, sales linearity within a quarter, pricing changes, and foreign currency. We expect to see ARPS fluctuate up or down on a quarterly basis. As we progress on our business model transition, we expect all of the impacts of these factors to stabilize. Impact of New Revenue Accounting Standard We adopted Accounting Standard Update No 2014-09, which codified new revenue recognition guidance under ASC Topic 606. Previously, we followed revenue accounting guidance under ASC Topic 605. The table below shows what some of our key metrics would have been under ASC Topic 605 (see Note 2 , Recently Issued Accounting Standards for more details on our adoption and impacts): Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 (in millions except ARPS) ASC 606 ASC 605 ASC 605 Key Income Statement Metrics Subscription revenue $ 350.4 $ 356.7 $ 173.4 Maintenance revenue 181.2 186.6 263.6 Other revenue 28.3 30.2 48.7 Total net revenue 559.9 573.5 485.7 Gross profit 493.1 506.5 407.5 Spend 615.2 601.8 605.3 Net loss $ (82.4 ) $ (60.0 ) $ (129.6 ) Basic and diluted net loss per share $ (0.38 ) $ (0.27 ) $ (0.59 ) ARR Subscription plan ARR $ 1,401.5 $ 1,427.0 $ 691.9 Maintenance plan ARR 724.9 746.3 1,051.7 Total ARR $ 2,126.4 $ 2,173.3 $ 1,743.6 ARPS Subscription plan ARPS $ 544 $ 554 $ 524 Maintenance plan ARPS 583 601 534 Total ARPS $ 557 $ 569 $ 530 Net Revenue by Product Family Architecture, Engineering and Construction ("AEC") $ 221.8 $ 227.8 $ 185.9 AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT ("ACAD") 155.6 160.2 129.0 Manufacturing ("MFG") 135.4 138.8 128.3 Media and Entertainment ("M&E") 41.8 41.7 36.5 Other 5.3 5.0 6.0 Total Net Revenue $ 559.9 $ 573.5 $ 485.7 Net Revenue by Geography Americas $ 233.5 $ 237.7 $ 210.1 Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") 220.9 228.6 189.7 Asia Pacific ("APAC") 105.5 107.2 85.9 Total Net Revenue $ 559.9 $ 573.5 $ 485.7 The adoption of ASC 606 required a change to our reporting around deferred revenue. See discussions below under the heading "Unbilled Deferred Revenue." 34 Foreign Currency Analysis We generate a significant amount of our revenue in the United States, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, and Canada. The following table shows the impact of foreign exchange rate changes on our net revenue and total spend: Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 Percent change compared to prior fiscal year Constant Currency percent change compared to prior fiscal year (2) Positive/Negative/Neutral impact from foreign exchange rate changes Revenue 15 % 15 % Neutral Spend (1) 2 % % Negative ________________ (1) Our total spend is defined as cost of revenue plus operating expenses. (2) Please refer to the Glossary of Terms for the definitions of our constant currency growth rates. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may have a significant effect on net revenue, total spend, and income (loss) from operations in future periods. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate effect on a portion of the net revenue of certain anticipated transactions but do not attempt to completely mitigate the impact of fluctuations of such foreign currency against the U.S. dollar. Unbilled Deferred Revenue The adoption of ASC 606 required a change to the definition of unbilled deferred revenue and new qualitative and quantitative disclosures around our performance obligations. Unbilled deferred revenue represents contractually stated or committed orders under early renewal and multi-year billing plans for subscription, services, license and maintenance for which the associated deferred revenue has not been recognized. Under ASC 606, unbilled deferred revenue is not included as a receivable or deferred revenue on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Note 3 , Revenue Recognition for more details on Autodesk's performance obligations. Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 (in millions) ASC 606 ASC 605 ASC 605 Deferred revenue $ 1,806.4 $ 1,942.7 $ 1,801.5 Unbilled deferred revenue 411.5 336.6 30.0 Total deferred revenue $ 2,217.9 $ 2,279.3 $ 1,831.5 We expect that the amount of billed and unbilled deferred revenue will change from quarter to quarter for several reasons, including the specific timing, duration and size of large customer subscription and support agreements, varying billing cycles of such agreements, the specific timing of customer renewals, and foreign currency fluctuations. Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items At April 30, 2018 , we had $ 1.5 billion in cash and marketable securities. Our cash flow from operations decrease d 137% to $ (16.9) million , for the three months ended April 30, 2018 compared to $ 45.2 million from the three months ended April 30, 2017 . We repurchased 0.2 million shares of our common stock for $21.0 million during the three months ended April 30, 2018 . Comparatively, we repurchased 2.2 million shares of our common stock for $192.0 million during the three months ended April 30, 2017 . Further discussion regarding the balance sheet and cash flow activities are discussed below under the heading Liquidity and Capital Resources. 35 Results of Operations The revenue and spend balances included in the tables below during the three months ended April 30, 2018 are calculated under ASC Topic 606. For comparison of subscription revenue, maintenance revenue, other revenue and total spend during the three months ended April 30, 2018 under ASC 605, refer to the table within Item 2, "Overview" under the title "Impact of New Revenue Accounting Standard." Net Revenue Income Statement Presentation Subscription revenue consists of our term-based product subscriptions, cloud service offerings, and flexible enterprise business arrangements. Revenue from these arrangements is recognized ratably over the contract term. Revenue for our cloud service offerings is recognized ratably over the contract term commencing with the date our service is made available to customers and when all other revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied. Maintenance revenue consists of renewal fees for existing maintenance plan agreements that were initially purchased with a perpetual software license. Under our maintenance plan, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades, when and if available, and technical support. We recognize maintenance revenue over the term of the agreements, generally between one and three years. Other revenue consists of revenue from consulting, training and other services, and is recognized over time as the services are performed. Other revenue also includes software license revenue from the sale of our discontinued perpetual licenses. Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended Management Comments (in millions) April 30, 2018 $ % April 30, 2017 Net Revenue: Subscription $ 350.4 $ 177.0 102 % $ 173.4 The increase in subscription revenue is primarily a result of the business model transition as maintenance plan subscriptions migrate to product subscriptions with the M2S program. We also saw growth across all subscription plan types, led by product subscriptions and EBAs. Maintenance 181.2 (82.4 ) (31 )% 263.6 The decrease in maintenance revenue is driven by the migration of maintenance plan subscriptions to product subscriptions with the M2S program as well as the discontinuation of new maintenance agreements. We expect maintenance revenue will slowly decline; however, the rate of decline will vary based on the number of renewals, the renewal rate, and our ability to incentivize maintenance plan customers to switch over to subscription plan offerings. Total maintenance and subscription revenue 531.6 94.6 22 % 437.0 Other (1) 28.3 (20.4 ) (42 )% 48.7 The decrease in other revenue is driven by the business model transition and the discontinuation of perpetual license sales. $ 559.9 $ 74.2 15 % $ 485.7 ____________________ (1) Previously labeled as "License and other" in prior periods. 36 Net Revenue by Product Family Our product offerings are focused in four primary product families: AEC, MFG, ACAD, and M&E. Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended Management Comments (in millions) April 30, 2018 $ % April 30, 2017 Net Revenue by Product Family (1): AEC $ 221.8 $ 35.9 19 % $ 185.9 Up due to an increase in AEC collections and legacy suites driven by the discontinuation of perpetual licenses and the strong results of our M2S program. Contributing to the growth was an increase in revenue from EBAs and individual AEC product offerings driven by the respective increases in subscription additions. ACAD 155.6 26.6 21 % 129.0 Up due to increases in both AutoCAD LT and AutoCAD driven by increases in subscription additions. MFG 135.4 7.1 6 % 128.3 Up due to an increase in MFG collections and legacy suites driven by the discontinuation of perpetual licenses and the strong results of our M2S program. Contributing to the growth was an increase in revenue from EBAs driven by an increase in subscription additions. M&E 41.8 5.3 15 % 36.5 Up due to an increase in Animation primarily due to an increase in revenue from EBAs driven by an increase in subscription additions. Other 5.3 (0.7 ) (12 )% 6.0 $ 559.9 $ 74.2 15 % $ 485.7 ____________________ (1) Due to changes in the go-to-market offerings of our AutoCAD product subscription, prior period balances have been adjusted to conform to current period presentation. Net Revenue by Geographic Area (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 Change compared to prior fiscal year Constant Currency Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended April 30, 2017 $ % % Net Revenue: Americas U.S. $ 195.9 $ 16.1 9 % * $ 179.8 Other Americas 37.6 7.3 24 % * 30.3 Total Americas 233.5 23.4 11 % 11 % 210.1 EMEA 220.9 31.2 16 % 16 % 189.7 APAC 105.5 19.6 23 % 22 % 85.9 Total Net Revenue (1) $ 559.9 $ 74.2 15 % 15 % $ 485.7 Emerging Economies $ 65.2 $ 14.3 28 % 27 % $ 50.9 ____________________ (1) Totals may not sum due to rounding. * Constant currency data not provided at this level. We believe that international revenue will continue to comprise a majority of our net revenue. Unfavorable economic conditions in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including in emerging economies such as 37 Brazil, Russia, India, and China, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies have significantly affected, and could continue to significantly affect, our financial results for a given period even though we hedge a portion of our current and projected revenue. Increases to the levels of political and economic unpredictability in the global market may impact our future financial results. Additionally, during the first three years of the business model transition, revenue has been impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than upfront and as new product offerings generally have a lower initial purchase price. While the transition to a subscription model has had a broad impact within all markets, it has had a particular impact to emerging economies as sales of perpetual licenses have historically comprised a greater percentage of total emerging economy sales in comparison to mature markets. Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost of maintenance and subscription revenue includes the labor costs of providing product support to our maintenance and subscription customers, including allocated IT and facilities costs, professional services fees related to operating our network and cloud infrastructure, royalties, depreciation expense and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries, related expenses of network operations, and stock-based compensation expense. Cost of other revenue includes labor costs associated with product setup, costs of consulting and training services contracts, and collaborative project management services contracts. Cost of other revenue also includes stock-based compensation expense, direct material and overhead charges, allocated IT and facilities costs, professional services fees and royalties. Direct material and overhead charges include the cost associated with electronic and physical fulfillment. Cost of revenue, at least over the near term, is affected by the volume and mix of product sales, fluctuations in consulting costs, amortization of developed technology, new customer support offerings, royalty rates for licensed technology embedded in our products and employee stock-based compensation expense. Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our marketing and sales employees, the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and expositions, and various sales and promotional programs. Marketing and sales expenses also include labor costs associated with sales and order management, sales and dealer commissions, payment processing fees, the cost of supplies and equipment, gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges, and allocated IT and facilities costs. Research and development expenses, which are expensed as incurred, consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for research and development employees, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, professional services such as fees paid to software development firms and independent contractors, gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges, and allocated IT and facilities costs. General and administrative expenses include salaries, bonuses, transition costs, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our CEO, finance, human resources and legal employees, as well as professional fees for legal and accounting services, certain foreign business taxes, gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges, expense of travel, entertainment and training, net IT and facilities costs, and the cost of supplies and equipment. 38 Three Months Ended Change compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended Management comments (in millions) April 30, 2018 $ % April 30, 2017 Cost of revenue: Maintenance and subscription $ 50.4 $ (4.5 ) (8 )% $ 54.9 Down primarily due to a decrease in employee-related costs driven by decreased headcount associated with the Fiscal 2018 Plan restructuring. Other (1) 12.8 (5.8 ) (31 )% 18.6 Down primarily due to a decrease in employee-related costs driven by decreased headcount associated with the Fiscal 2018 Plan restructuring. Amortization of developed technology 3.6 (1.1 ) (23 )% 4.7 Down as previously acquired developed technologies continue to become fully amortized while fewer assets are acquired compared to the prior year. Total cost of revenue $ 66.8 $ (11.4 ) (15 )% $ 78.2 Operating expenses: Marketing and sales $ 276.4 $ 20.7 8 % $ 255.7 Up due to increased commissions expense, as a result of our adoption of ASC Topic 340-40, and increased employee-related costs from higher headcount. Research and development 172.8 (14.9 ) (8 )% 187.7 Down primarily due to a decrease in employee-related costs driven by decreased headcount associated with the Fiscal 2018 Plan restructuring. General and administrative 72.9 (5.4 ) (7 )% 78.3 Down due to a decrease in stock-based compensation expense driven by awards that were accelerated as part of the CEO transition during the first quarter of the prior year. Amortization of purchased intangibles 3.8 (1.9 ) (33 )% 5.7 Down as previously acquired intangible assets continue to become fully amortized and fewer assets are acquired compared to the prior year. Restructuring and other facility exit costs, net (2) 22.5 22.8 * (0.3 ) Driven by the Fiscal 2018 Plan to re-balance resources to better align with the Company's strategic priorities and position itself to meet long-term goals. Costs associated with the Fiscal 2018 Plan are principally from employee termination benefits, lease termination costs and other exit costs. Total operating expenses $ 548.4 $ 21.3 4 % $ 527.1 ____________________ (1) Previously labeled as "License and other" in prior periods. (2) See Note 13 , " Restructuring charges and other facility exit costs, net " in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. * Percentage is not meaningful. The following table highlights our expectation for the absolute dollar change and percent of revenue change between the second quarter of fiscal 2019 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018 : Absolute dollar impact Percent of net revenue impact Cost of Revenue Decrease Decrease Marketing and sales Increase Decrease Research and development Decrease Decrease General and administrative Slight Decrease Decrease Amortization of purchased intangibles Decrease Relatively Flat 39 Interest and Other Expense, Net The following table sets forth the components of interest and other expense, net: Three Months Ended April 30, (in millions) 2018 2017 Interest and investment expense, net $ (13.2 ) $ (6.9 ) Gain (loss) on foreign currency 2.1 (1.0 ) Gain on strategic investments and dispositions 2.7 5.7 Other (expense) income (0.1 ) 0.4 Interest and other expense, net $ (8.5 ) $ (1.8 ) Interest and other expense, net increased $6.7 million during the three months ended April 30, 2018 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily driven by mark to market losses on deferred compensation plans and increased interest expense resulting from our June 2017 issuance of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.5% notes due June 15, 2027. Interest expense and investment income fluctuates based on average cash, marketable securities and debt balances, average maturities and interest rates. Gains and losses on foreign currency are primarily due to the impact of re-measuring foreign currency transactions and net monetary assets into the functional currency of the corresponding entity. The amount of the gain or loss on foreign currency is driven by the volume of foreign currency transactions and the foreign currency exchange rates for the period. Provision for Income Taxes We account for income taxes and the related accounts under the liability method. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the basis differences reverse. Autodesk had an income tax expense of $18.6 million , relative to pre-tax losses of $63.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 , and an income tax expense of $8.2 million , relative to pre-tax losses of $121.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017 . Income tax expense increased primarily due to the mix of increased worldwide earnings, foreign taxes, and withholding taxes. The variance between April 30, 2017, and April 30, 2018, was mainly due to reversal of foreign withholding tax accruals in April 30, 2017. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when management cannot conclude that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax asset will be recovered. The valuation allowance is determined by assessing both positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable; such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. Significant judgment is required in determining whether the valuation allowance should be recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results and estimates of future taxable income. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, we considered recent cumulative losses in the United States arising from the Company's business model transition as a significant source of negative evidence. Considering this negative evidence and the absence of sufficient positive objective evidence that we would generate sufficient taxable income in our United States tax jurisdiction to realize the deferred tax assets, we determined that it was not more likely than not that the Company would realize the U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets and recorded a full valuation allowance. As we continually strive to optimize our overall business model, tax planning strategies may become feasible whereby management may determine that it is more likely than not that the federal and state deferred tax assets will be realized; as a result, we will continue to evaluate the realizability of our net deferred tax assets each quarter, both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, based on all available evidence, both positive and negative. As of April 30, 2018 , we had $341.3 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of which $307.9 million represents the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would reduce our valuation allowance, if recognized. The remaining $33.4 million would impact the effective tax rate. It is possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change in the next twelve months; however, an estimate of the range of the possible change cannot be made at this time. 40 Our future effective tax rate may be materially impacted by the amount of benefits and charges from tax amounts associated with our foreign earnings that are taxed at rates different from the federal statutory rate, research credits, state income taxes, the tax impact of stock-based compensation, accounting for uncertain tax positions, business combinations, U.S. Manufacturer's deduction, closure of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits, changes in valuation allowances and changes in tax laws including possible U.S. tax law changes that, if enacted, could significantly impact how U.S. multinational companies are taxed on foreign subsidiary earnings. A significant amount of our earnings is generated by our Europe and APAC subsidiaries. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates or we repatriate certain foreign earnings on which U.S. taxes have not previously been provided. The Internal Revenue Service is examining the Company's U.S. consolidated federal income tax returns for fiscal years 2014 and 2015. While it is possible that the Company's tax positions may be challenged, the Company believes its positions are consistent with the tax law, and the balance sheet reflects appropriate liabilities for uncertain federal tax positions for the years being examined. The Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017, and provides broad and significant changes to the U.S. tax code and how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. The Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously provided for in the U.S. tax law. These computations require significant judgments to be made regarding the interpretation of the provisions within the Tax Act, along with preparation and analysis of information not previously required. In conjunction with the Tax Act, the SEC issued SAB 118 that allows us to record provisional amounts until a final assessment can be made within a period not to exceed one year from the date of enactment, which would be during our quarter ending October 31, 2018. We have not completed our determination of the accounting implications of the Tax Act on our results of operation. There have been no material changes to the Tax Act since January 31, 2018. As additional regulatory guidance is issued and we continue to collect and analyze necessary data, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts previously recorded. We do not anticipate these adjustments to materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made since we are in a full valuation allowance in the U.S. 41 Other Financial Information In addition to our results determined under GAAP discussed above, we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance. For the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 , our gross profit, gross margin, income (loss) from operations, operating margin, net income (loss), diluted net income (loss) per share and diluted shares used in per share calculation on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis were as follows (in millions except for gross margin, operating margin, and per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 2017 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 493.1 $ 407.5 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 500.2 $ 416.1 Gross margin 88 % 84 % Non-GAAP gross margin 89 % 86 % Loss from operations $ (55.3 ) $ (119.6 ) Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations $ 29.0 $ (39.5 ) Operating margin (10 )% (25 )% Non-GAAP operating margin 5 % (8 )% Net loss $ (82.4 ) $ (129.6 ) Non-GAAP net income (loss) $ 14.4 $ (34.8 ) GAAP diluted net loss per share (1) $ (0.38 ) $ (0.59 ) Non-GAAP diluted net income (loss) per share (1) $ 0.06 $ (0.16 ) GAAP diluted shares used in per share calculation 218.6 219.9 Non-GAAP diluted weighted average shares used in per share calculation 221.6 219.9 _______________ (1) Net income (loss) per share was computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the net loss per share amount for the quarters may not equal the total for the year. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons, we use non-GAAP measures to supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis. These non-GAAP measures do not include certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. We also use non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe those measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our earning potential and performance for management by excluding certain expenses and charges that may not be indicative of our core business operating results. For the reasons set forth below, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. This allows investors and others to better understand and evaluate our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as management, compare financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies and to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. We also use some of these measures for purposes of determining company-wide incentive compensation. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures included above are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which charges are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our public disclosures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is meant to be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from, the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 42 Reconciliation of GAAP Financial Measures to Non-GAAP Financial Measures (In millions except for gross margin, operating margin, and per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 2017 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 493.1 $ 407.5 Stock-based compensation expense 3.5 3.9 Amortization of developed technologies 3.6 4.7 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 500.2 $ 416.1 Gross margin 88 % 84 % Stock-based compensation expense 1 % 1 % Amortization of developed technologies 1 % 1 % Non-GAAP gross margin (2) 89 % 86 % Loss from operations $ (55.3 ) $ (119.6 ) Stock-based compensation expense 54.4 59.0 Amortization of developed technologies 3.6 4.7 Amortization of purchased intangibles 3.8 5.7 CEO transition costs (1) 11.0 Restructuring and other facility exit costs, net 22.5 (0.3 ) Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations $ 29.0 $ (39.5 ) Operating margin (10 )% (25 )% Stock-based compensation expense 10 % 12 % Amortization of developed technologies 1 % 1 % Amortization of purchased intangibles 1 % 1 % CEO transition costs (1) % 2 % Restructuring and other facility exit costs, net 4 % % Non-GAAP operating margin (2) 5 % (8 )% Net loss $ (82.4 ) $ (129.6 ) Stock-based compensation expense 54.4 59.0 Amortization of developed technologies 3.6 4.7 Amortization of purchased intangibles 3.8 5.7 CEO transition costs (1) 11.0 Restructuring and other facility exit costs, net 22.5 (0.3 ) Gain on strategic investments and dispositions (2.7 ) (5.7 ) Discrete tax items (7.6 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments 15.2 28.0 Non-GAAP net income (loss) $ 14.4 $ (34.8 ) 43 Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 2017 (Unaudited) GAAP diluted net loss per share (3) $ (0.38 ) $ (0.59 ) Stock-based compensation expense 0.25 0.27 Amortization of developed technologies 0.02 0.02 Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.02 0.03 CEO transition costs (1) 0.04 Restructuring and other facility exit costs, net 0.09 Gain on strategic investments and dispositions (0.01 ) (0.03 ) Discrete tax items (0.03 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments 0.07 0.13 Non-GAAP diluted net income (loss) per share (3) $ 0.06 $ (0.16 ) ____________________ (1) CEO transition costs include stock-based compensation of $7.8 million related to the acceleration of eligible stock awards in the three months ended April 30, 2017. (2) Totals may not sum due to rounding. (3) Net income (loss) per share was computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the net loss per share amount for the quarters may not equal the total for the year. Our non-GAAP financial measures may exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expenses. We exclude stock-based compensation expenses from non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use under FASB ASC Topic 718, we believe excluding stock-based compensation expenses allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangibles. We incur amortization of acquisition-related developed technology and purchased intangibles in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangibles is inconsistent in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of our acquisitions. Management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges from our cost of revenues to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangible assets will recur in future periods. CEO transition costs. We exclude amounts paid to the Company's former CEOs upon departure under the terms of their transition agreements, including severance payments, acceleration of restricted stock units, and continued vesting of performance stock units, and legal fees incurred with the transition. Also excluded from our non-GAAP measures are recruiting costs related to the search for a new CEO. These costs represent non-recurring expenses and are not indicative of our ongoing operating expenses. We further believe that excluding the CEO transition costs from our non-GAAP results is useful to investors in that it allows for period-over-period comparability. Goodwill impairment. This is a non-cash charge to write-down goodwill to fair value when there was an indication that the asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Restructuring and other facility exit costs, net. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions or other exit actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, the closure of facilities and cancellation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing business and operating results. We believe it is useful for investors to understand the effects of these items on our total operating expenses. Loss (gain) on strategic investments and dispositions. We exclude gains and losses related to our strategic investments and dispositions from our non-GAAP measures primarily because management finds it useful to exclude these variable gains 44 and losses on these investments and dispositions in assessing our financial results. Included in these amounts are non-cash unrealized gains and losses on the derivative components, realized gains and losses on the sales or losses on the impairment of these investments and dispositions. We believe excluding these items is useful to investors because these excluded items do not correlate to the underlying performance of our business and these losses or gains were incurred in connection with strategic investments and dispositions which do not occur regularly. Discrete tax items. We exclude the GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from the non-GAAP measure of net (loss) income, and include a non-GAAP tax provision based upon the projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Discrete tax items include income tax expenses or benefits that do not relate to ordinary income from continuing operations in the current fiscal year, unusual or infrequently occurring items, or the tax impact of certain stock-based compensation. Examples of discrete tax items include, but are not limited to, certain changes in judgment and changes in estimates of tax matters related to prior fiscal years, certain costs related to business combinations, certain changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets or changes in tax law. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to ongoing operations. We believe the exclusion of these discrete tax items provides investors with useful supplemental information about our operational performance. Establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets. This is a non-cash charge to record a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various cash expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP expenses, primarily due to stock-based compensation, amortization of purchased intangibles and restructuring charges and other facilities exit costs (benefits) for GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of cash is from the sale of our software and related services. Our primary use of cash is payment of our operating costs, which consist primarily of employee-related expenses, such as compensation and benefits, as well as general operating expenses for marketing, facilities and overhead costs. In addition to operating expenses, we also use cash to fund our stock repurchase program and invest in our growth initiatives, which include acquisitions of products, technology and businesses. See further discussion of these items below. At April 30, 2018 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $1.5 billion and net accounts receivable of $206.7 million . As of April 30, 2018 , we have $ 1.6 billion aggregate principal amount of Notes outstanding (see Note 12 , " Borrowing Arrangements ," in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). In addition, we have a line of credit facility that permits unsecured short-term borrowings of up to $ 400.0 million with a May 2020 maturity date, with an option to request an increase in the amount of the credit facility by up to an additional $100.0 million . This credit agreement contains customary covenants that could restrict the imposition of liens on our assets, and restrict the Companys ability to incur additional indebtedness or make dispositions of assets if we fail to maintain the financial covenants. The financial covenants consist of a maximum debt to total cash ratio, a fixed charge coverage ratio through April 30, 2018, and after April 30, 2018, a minimum interest coverage ratio. As of June 8, 2018 , we have no amounts outstanding under the credit facility. If we are unable to remain in compliance with the covenants, we will not be able to draw on our credit facility. Borrowings under the credit facility and the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes are available for general corporate purposes. Our cash and cash equivalents are held by diversified financial institutions globally. Our primary commercial banking relationship is with Citigroup and its global affiliates. In addition, Citibank N.A., an affiliate of Citigroup, is one of the lead lenders and agent in the syndicate of our $400.0 million line of credit. Long-term cash requirements for items other than normal operating expenses are anticipated for the following: repayment of debt; common stock repurchases; the acquisition of businesses, software products, or technologies complementary to our business; and capital expenditures, including the purchase and implementation of internal-use software applications. In connection with the companys closure of certain offices and reduction of workforces worldwide, the company is in discussions with tax authorities regarding the closure of offices and the redeployment/transfer of assets. At this time, the Company cannot estimate the tax implications of these discussions. 45 Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology, and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology, and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. Our decision to acquire businesses or technology is dependent on our business needs, the availability of suitable sellers and technology, and our own financial condition. As of April 30, 2018 , other than what was previously discussed in this section regarding our latest debt issuance and repayment, there have been no material changes in our contractual obligations or commercial commitments compared to those we disclosed in managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 . Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances are concentrated in a few locations around the world, with substantial amounts held outside of the United States. As of April 30, 2018 , approximately 79% of our total cash or cash equivalents and marketable securities are located in foreign jurisdictions and that percentage will fluctuate subject to business needs. There are several factors that can impact our ability to utilize foreign cash balances, such as foreign exchange restrictions, foreign regulatory restrictions or adverse tax costs. The Tax Act includes a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries and generally eliminates U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiary distributions in future periods. As a result, earnings in foreign jurisdictions are generally available for distribution to the U.S. with little to no incremental U.S. taxes. We expect to meet our liquidity needs through current cash balances, ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or a combination. We regularly review our capital structure and consider a variety of potential financing alternatives and planning strategies to ensure we have the proper liquidity available in the locations in which it is needed. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors . However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our revenue, earnings, cash flows, receivables, and payables are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, for which we have put in place foreign currency contracts as part of our risk management strategy. See Part II, Item 7A,