Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K to fully understand factors that may affect the comparability of the information presented below. The financial data for the years ended January 31, 2014 and 2013 are derived from, and are qualified by reference to, the audited consolidated financial statements that are included in this Form 10-K. The Consolidated Statement of Operations and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended January 31, 2012 are derived from, and are qualified by reference to, the audited consolidated financial statements that are included in this Form 10-K. The Consolidated Balance Sheet for the year ended January 31, 2012 is derived from, and are qualified by reference to, the audited consolidated financial statements that are not included in this Form 10-K. The financial data for the years ended January 31, 2011 and 2010 are derived from audited, consolidated financial statements which are not included in this Form 10-K. Fiscal year ended January 31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (In millions, except per share data) For the Fiscal Year: Net revenue $ 2,273.9 $ 2,312.2 $ 2,215.6 $ 1,951.8 $ 1,713.7 Income from operations 284.8 305.9 355.6 271.4 65.6 Net income 228.8 247.4 285.3 212.0 58.0 Cash flow from operations 563.5 559.1 573.5 540.8 246.8 Common Stock Data: Basic net income per share $ 1.02 $ 1.09 $ 1.25 $ 0.93 $ 0.25 Diluted net income per share 1.00 1.07 1.22 0.90 0.25 Dividends paid per share At Year End: Total assets $ 4,595.0 $ 4,308.4 $ 3,227.8 $ 2,787.6 $ 2,447.2 Long-term liabilities 1,262.0 1,221.5 390.8 308.5 269.7 Stockholders equity 2,261.5 2,043.2 1,882.9 1,609.3 1,473.5 2014 Form 10-K 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion in our MD&A and elsewhere in this Form 10-K contains trend analyses and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies, including those discussed in Strategy and "Business Outlook" below; anticipated future net revenue; future GAAP and non-GAAP earnings per share; future operating margin and other future financial results (by product type and geography) and operating expenses; the effectiveness of our efforts to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets; the effectiveness of efforts to reduce our operating expenses; expected market trends, including the growth of cloud, mobile and social computing; the effect of unemployment and availability of credit; the effects of the U.S. credit downgrade and weak global economic conditions; the effects of revenue recognition; our backlog; expected trends in certain financial metrics; the impact of acquisitions and investment activities; the effect of fluctuations in exchange rates and our hedging activities on our financial results; our abilities to successfully expand adoption of our products; our ability to gain market acceptance of new businesses and sales initiatives; our ability to successfully increase sales of product suites as part of our overall sales strategy; the impact of economic volatility and geopolitical activities in certain countries, particularly emerging economy countries, and the resulting effect on our financial results; and the impact of our restructuring activities. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product acceptance, continuation of our stock repurchase program, statements regarding our liquidity and short-term and long-term cash requirements, as well as statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as may, believe, could, anticipate, would, might, plan, expect, and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of the factors set forth above in Item 1A , Risk Factors , and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made, except as required by law.. Strategy Autodesks vision is to help people imagine, design and create a better world. We do this by developing software and services for the worlds designers, architects, engineers, and digital artists, professionals and non-professionals alikethe people who create the world's products, buildings, infrastructure, films, and games. Autodesk serves professional customers in three primary markets: architecture, engineering and construction; manufacturing; and digital media and entertainment. Our goal is to provide our customers with the worlds most innovative, and engaging design software and services. Our product and services portfolio allows our customers to digitally visualize, simulate, and analyze their projects, helping them to better understand the consequences of their design decisions; save time, money, and resources; and become more innovative. Autodesk was founded during the platform transition from mainframes and engineering workstations to personal computers. We developed and sustained a compelling value proposition based upon desktop software for the personal computer. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry thirty years ago, we believe our industry is undergoing a similar transition from the personal computer to cloud, social, and mobile computing. To address this transition we have accelerated our move to the cloud and are offering more flexible licenses. Our strategy is to lead our customers and the industries they serve to the new cloud and mobile platforms. This entails both a technological shift and a business model shift. During the early part of fiscal 2014, we announced more flexible term-based license offerings for certain products. These offerings are designed to give our customers even more flexibility with how they use our products and service offerings and address new types of customers such as project-based users and small businesses. Over the next four years, we expect to significantly increase our subscription base and the annual value of our subscriptions, which we believe will help drive billings growth. During this transition, revenue, deferred revenue, operating margin and EPS will be impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than up front and as new offerings bring a wider variety of price points. Our strategy is predicated upon our major business initiatives to grow, transform and expand our business: Grow. We believe opportunity remains in our desktop software business, and we intend to continue to grow this business. In particular we are offering product suites with improved interoperability and usability to enhance our customers' productivity and effectiveness. We are continuing to develop new ways to deliver capability and value to 2014 Form 10-K 33 Table of Contents our customers, including flexible license and service offerings, product suites and cloud and social-based services, to better match the business needs of our customers. We will continue to emphasize developing relationships with large, global customers and pursuing opportunities in emerging economies. Transform. At the same time we grow our desktop software business, we are migrating many of our products to the cloud. This entails development of new cloud computing infrastructure and redesigning our applications to leverage the cloud. We are also developing new capabilities that are enabled by the cloud such as collaborative Product Lifecycle Management (PLM), Building Information Modeling (BIM) and online simulation. Our goal is to lead our industry in transitioning to the cloud, and use cloud services to provide more value to new and existing subscriptions. Expand. We believe that the combination of cloud, social and mobile computing affords us the opportunity to expand our business into new markets and extend the value of our customers' digital design information into visualization, analysis and simulation. We have added new customers through our products and services that are delivered and experienced through the web, cloud and mobile devices providing our advanced visualization technologies to consumers - a whole new category of Autodesk customer. We intend to continue to develop our business to both add new customers and find new capabilities to incorporate in our core business. We believe suites present a meaningful growth opportunity and is an important part of our overall strategy. As our customers in all industries adopt our design suites, we believe they will experience an increase in their productivity and the value of their design data. For fiscal 2014 , revenue from suites increased 15% , as compared to the prior fiscal year. As a percentage of revenue, suites increased to 34% in fiscal 2014 as compared to 29% in fiscal 2013 . Expanding our geographic coverage is another key element of our growth strategy. Much of the growth in the worlds construction and manufacturing is happening in emerging economies. Further, emerging economies face many of the challenges that our design technology can help address, including infrastructure build-out and innovative design and manufacturing. Although revenue from emerging countries remained flat during fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 , we believe that emerging economies continue to present long-term growth opportunities for us. Revenue from emerging countries represented 15% and 14% of fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 net revenue, respectively. While we believe there are long-term growth opportunities in emerging economies, conducting business in these countries presents significant challenges, including economic volatility, geopolitical risk, local competition, intellectual property protection, poorly developed business infrastructure, scarcity of talent, software piracy and different purchase patterns as compared to the developed world. Today, complex challenges such as globalization, urbanization, and sustainable design are driving our customers to new levels of performance and competitiveness, and we are committed to helping them address those challenges and take advantage of new opportunities. To achieve these goals, we are capitalizing on two of our strongest competitive advantages: our ability to bring advanced technology to mainstream markets, and the breadth and depth of our product portfolio. By innovating within existing technology categories, we bring powerful new design capabilities to volume markets. Our products are designed to be easy-to-learn and use, and to provide customers with a low cost of deployment, a low total cost of access to our software offerings, and a rapid return on investment. In addition, our software architecture allows for extensibility and integration with other products. The breadth of our technology and product line gives us a unique competitive advantage, because it allows our customers to address a wide variety of problems in ways that transcend industry and disciplinary boundaries. This is particularly important in helping our customers address the complex challenges mentioned above. We also believe that our technological leadership and global brand recognition have positioned us well for long-term growth and industry leadership. In addition to the competitive advantages afforded by our technology, our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, faculty and students is a key competitive advantage. This network of relationships provides us with a broad and deep reach into volume markets around the world. Our distributor and reseller network is extensive and provides our customers with the resources to purchase, deploy, learn, and support our products quickly and easily. We have a significant number of registered third-party developers who create products that work well with our products and extend them for a variety of specialized applications. We are committed to helping fuel a lifelong passion for design in students of all ages, and inspiring and supporting educators. As such, we offer extensive educational programs supporting our software and services including a new program, initiated in fiscal 2014, under which we grant software licenses to educational institutions in select regions and to key partners for little or no fees. Through these programs we intend to further Science, Technology, Engineering, Digital Arts, and Math 2014 Form 10-K 34 Table of Contents (STEAM) education initiatives. With an extensive global community of students who are experienced with our software and poised to become the next generation of professional users, our goal is to reduce the cost of training and education of new talent for our customers. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and may, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. Our strategy depends upon a number of assumptions, including that we will be able to continue making our technology available to mainstream markets; leverage our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, and students; improve the performance and functionality of our products; and adequately protect our intellectual property. If the outcome of any of these assumptions differs from our expectations, we may not be able to implement our strategy, which could potentially adversely affect our business. For further discussion regarding these and related risks see Part I , Item 1A , Risk Factors . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We regularly reevaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that of all our significant accounting policies, the following policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. However, determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. For multiple element arrangements containing only software and software-related elements, we allocate the sales price among each of the deliverables using the residual method, under which revenue is allocated to undelivered elements based on our vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value. VSOE is the price charged when an element is sold separately or a price set by management with the relevant authority. If we do not have VSOE of an undelivered software license, we defer revenue recognition on the entire sales arrangement until all elements for which we do not have VSOE are delivered. If we do not have VSOE for undelivered maintenance or services, the revenue for the arrangement is recognized over the longest contractual service period in the arrangement. We are required to exercise judgment in determining whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element based on whether our pricing for these elements is sufficiently consistent. For multiple elements arrangements involving non-software elements, including cloud subscription services, our revenue recognition policy is based upon the accounting guidance contained in ASC 605, Revenue Recognition . For these arrangements, we first allocate the total arrangement consideration based on the relative selling prices of the software group of elements as a whole and to the non-software elements. We then further allocate consideration within the software group to the respective elements within that group using the residual method as described above. We exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of revenue to be recognized in each accounting period. Our assessment of likelihood of collection is also a critical factor in determining the timing of revenue recognition. If we do not believe that collection is probable, the revenue will be deferred until the earlier of when collection is deemed probable or payment is received. Our indirect channel model includes both a two-tiered distribution structure, where distributors sell to resellers, and a one-tiered structure where Autodesk sells directly to resellers. Our product license revenue from distributors and resellers are generally recognized at the time title to our product passes to the distributor, in a two-tiered structure, or reseller, in a one-tiered 2014 Form 10-K 35 Table of Contents structure, provided all other criteria for revenue recognition are met. This policy is predicated on our ability to estimate sales returns, among other criteria. We are also required to evaluate whether our distributors and resellers have the ability to honor their commitment to make fixed or determinable payments, regardless of whether they collect payment from their customers. Our policy also presumes that we have no significant performance obligations in connection with the sale of our product licenses by our distributors and resellers to their customers. If we were to change any of these assumptions or judgments, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. As part of the indirect channel model, Autodesk has a partner incentive program that uses quarterly attainment monetary rewards to motivate distributors and resellers to achieve mutually agreed upon business goals in a specified time period. A portion of these incentives reduce license and other revenue in the current period. The remainder, which relates to incentives on our Subscription Program, is recorded as a reduction to deferred revenue in the period the maintenance transaction is billed and subsequently recognized as a reduction to maintenance revenue over the contract period. These incentive balances do not require significant assumptions or judgments. The reserves associated with the partner incentive program are treated on the balance sheet as either contra account receivable (when due to distributors and direct resellers) or accounts payable (when due to indirect resellers). Marketable Securities. As described in Note 2 , Financial Instruments , in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, our investments in marketable securities are measured at the end of each reporting period and reported at fair value. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. In determining the fair value of our investments we are sometimes required to use various alternative valuation techniques. Inputs to valuation techniques are either observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our market assumptions. These two types of inputs have created the following fair value hierarchy: Level 1 - Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets; Level 2 - Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets; and Level 3 - Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable. This hierarchy requires us to minimize the use of unobservable inputs and to use observable market data, if available, when determining fair value. This is generally true for our cash and cash equivalents and the majority of our marketable securities, which we consider to be Level 1 assets and Level 2 assets. However, determining the fair value of marketable securities when observable inputs are not available (Level 3) requires significant judgment. For example, we use probability weighted discounted cash flow models, in which some of the inputs are unobservable in the market, to estimate the fair value of our convertible debt securities. These assumptions are inherently subjective and involve significant management judgment. Whenever possible, we use observable market data and rely on unobservable inputs only when observable market data is not available, when determining fair value. All of Autodesks marketable securities are subject to a periodic impairment review. We recognize an impairment charge when a decline in the fair value of its investments below the cost basis is judged to be other-than-temporary. Autodesk considers various factors in determining whether to recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than Autodesks cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and Autodesks intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in the market value. Business Combinations. We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the assets and liabilities acquired, as well as to in-process research and development based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price allocation requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to intangible assets and deferred revenue obligations. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Examples 2014 Form 10-K 36 Table of Contents of critical estimates used in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from sales, maintenance agreements and acquired developed technologies; the acquired companys trade name and customer relationships as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name and customer relationships will continue to be used in the combined companys product portfolio; expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; and discount rates used to determine the present value of estimated future cash flows. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable, and if different estimates were used the purchase price for the acquisition could be allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities differently from the allocation that we have made. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates, and if such events occur we may be required to record a charge against the value ascribed to an acquired asset or an increase in the amounts recorded for assumed liabilities. Goodwill. When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase consideration is typically allocated to acquired technology and other identifiable intangible assets, such as customer relationships and developed technology. The excess of the purchase consideration over the net of the acquisition-date fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. The amounts allocated to acquired technology and other intangible assets represent our estimates of their fair values at the acquisition date. We amortize the acquired technology and other intangible assets with finite lives over their estimated useful lives. The estimation of acquisition-date fair values of intangible assets and their useful lives requires us to make assumptions and judgments, including but not limited to an evaluation of macroeconomic conditions as they relate to our business, industry and market trends, projections of future cash flows and appropriate discount rates. We test goodwill for impairment annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or sooner should events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment as required under Accounting Standard Update No. 2011-08, "Testing Goodwill for Impairment (ASU 2011-08). ASU 2011-08 provides for an optional assessment of qualitative factors of impairment (optional assessment) prior to necessitating a two-step quantitative impairment test. Should the optional assessment be utilized for any given fiscal year, qualitative factors to consider include cost factors; financial performance; legal, regulatory, contractual, political, business, or other factors; entity specific factors; industry and market considerations, macroeconomic conditions, and other relevant events and factors affecting the reporting unit. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than its carrying value, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. Under the two-step quantitative impairment test, we use discounted cash flow models which include assumptions regarding projected cash flows. Variances in these assumptions could have a significant impact on our conclusion as to whether goodwill is impaired, or the amount of any impairment charge. Impairment charges, if any, result from instances where the fair values of net assets associated with goodwill are less than their carrying values. As changes in business conditions and our assumptions occur, we may be required to record impairment charges. For our annual impairment assessment in fiscal 2014 , we did not utilize the optional assessment. Rather, we used the quantitative two-step impairment test for each of our Platform Solutions and Emerging Business (PSEB), Manufacturing ("MFG"), Architecture, Engineering and Construction ("AEC"), and Media and Entertainment (M&E) reporting units and used a discounted cash flow model which included assumptions regarding projected cash flows. Based on this testing, we determined that the fair value was substantially in excess of the carrying value for each of the four reporting units and that there was no impairment of goodwill during the year ended January 31, 2014 . Realizability of Long-Lived Assets. We assess the realizability of our long-lived assets and related intangible assets, other than goodwill, annually during the fourth fiscal quarter, or sooner should events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying values of such assets may not be recoverable. We consider the following factors important in determining when to perform an impairment review: significant under-performance of a business or product line relative to budget; shifts in business strategies which affect the continued uses of the assets; significant negative industry or economic trends; and the results of past impairment reviews. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, we assess recoverability of these assets. 2014 Form 10-K 37 Table of Contents We assess recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate. If impairment indicators were present based on our undiscounted cash flow models, which include assumptions regarding projected cash flows, we would perform a discounted cash flow analysis to assess impairments on long-lived assets. Variances in these assumptions could have a significant impact on our conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired or the amount of any impairment charge. Impairment charges, if any, result in situations where any fair values of these assets are less than their carrying values. In addition to our recoverability assessments, we routinely review the remaining estimated useful lives of our long-lived assets. Any reduction in the useful life assumption will result in increased depreciation and amortization expense in the quarter when such determinations are made, as well as in subsequent quarters. We will continue to evaluate the values of our long-lived assets in accordance with applicable accounting rules. As changes in business conditions and our assumptions occur, we may be required to record impairment charges. Income Taxes. We currently have $ 187.9 million of net deferred tax assets, primarily a result of tax credits, net operating losses, and timing differences for reserves, accrued liabilities, stock options, deferred revenue, purchased technologies and capitalized intangibles, partially offset by the establishment of U.S. deferred tax liabilities on unremitted earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries, deferred tax liabilities associated with tax method changes on advanced payments and valuation allowances against U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets. We perform a quarterly assessment of the recoverability of these net deferred tax assets and believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions to realize the net deferred tax assets. Our judgments regarding future profitability may change due to future market conditions and other factors, including intercompany transfer pricing adjustments. Any change in future profitability may require material adjustments to these net deferred tax assets, resulting in a reduction in net income in the period when such determination is made. We believe our tax positions, including intercompany transfer pricing policies, are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. It is possible that these positions may be challenged by jurisdictional tax authorities and may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate. Stock-Based Compensation . We measure stock-based compensation cost at the grant date fair value of the award, and recognize expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. We estimate the fair value of certain stock-based payment awards (including grants of stock options and employee stock purchases related to the employee stock purchase plan) using either the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model or a binomial-lattice model (e.g., Monte Carlo simulation model). To determine the grant-date fair value of our stock-based payment awards, we use a Black-Scholes model or the quoted stock price on the date of grant, unless the awards are subject to market conditions, in which case we use the Monte Carlo simulation model. The Monte Carlo simulation model utilizes multiple input variables to estimate the probability that market conditions will be achieved. These variables include our expected stock price volatility over the expected term of the award, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, the risk-free interest rate for the expected term of the award and expected dividends. The variables used in these models are reviewed on a quarterly basis and adjusted, as needed. Share-based compensation cost for restricted stock is measured on the closing fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Legal Contingencies . As described in Part I , Item 3 , Legal Proceedings and Part II , Item 8 , Note 8 , Commitments and Contingencies , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we are periodically involved in various legal claims and proceedings. We routinely review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any matter is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability for the estimated loss. Because of inherent uncertainties related to these legal matters, we base our loss accruals on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess our potential liability and may revise our estimates. Such revisions could have a material impact on future quarterly or annual results of operations. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Part II , Item 8 , Note 1 , Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. 2014 Form 10-K 38 Table of Contents Overview of Fiscal 2014 Fiscal Year Ended As a % of Net Revenue Fiscal Year Ended As a % of Net Revenue January 31, 2014 January 31, 2013 (in millions) Net Revenue $ 2,273.9 100 % $ 2,312.2 100 % Cost of revenue 274.3 12 % 238.5 10 % Gross Profit 1,999.6 88 % 2,073.7 90 % Operating expenses 1,714.8 75 % 1,767.8 76 % Income from Operations $ 284.8 13 % $ 305.9 13 % During fiscal 2014 , as compared to the prior fiscal year, net revenue decreased 2% , gross profit decreased 4% , and income from operations decreased 7% . Contributing to the year over year impact to revenue during fiscal 2014 were decreases in license and other revenue partially offset by increases in subscription revenue. During the latter part of fiscal year 2014, we announced a business model transition as we began offering more flexible license and service offerings that have ratable revenue streams. As a result, our net revenue for fiscal 2014 excluded approximately $30 million that was deferred as a result of the our transition. The $30 million related to flexible license arrangements with certain enterprise customers and had a particular impact on license revenue in the Americas geography and the Architecture, Engineering and Construction ("AEC") business segment. Negatively impacting revenue, especially within the Asia Pacific ("APAC") geography, were changes in foreign currency rates for fiscal 2014 as compared to the prior fiscal year. In addition, our strategic decision related to our educational program to begin granting software licenses to educational institutions in select regions and to key partners negatively impacted revenue, especially within the Americas geography, between fiscal 2014 and the prior fiscal year. The reasons for these changes are discussed below under the heading Results from Operations. Revenue Analysis Revenue from flagship products was 51% of total net revenue during fiscal 2014 , a decrease of 11% as compared to the prior fiscal year. Revenue from suites was 34% of total net revenue for fiscal 2014 , an increase of 15% as compared to the prior fiscal year. Revenue from new and adjacent products was 14% of total net revenue during the fiscal 2014 , a decrease of 2% as compared to fiscal 2013 . We anticipate that, as our new and existing customers migrate from our stand-alone products to suites, our revenue from suites will increase as a percentage of revenue and that our revenue from our flagship and new and adjacent products will continue to decline as a percentage of revenue. We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (collectively, Tech Data). Tech Data accounted for 24% and 23% of our consolidated net revenue during fiscal year 2014 and 2013 , respectively. We believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech Data. Our customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of the agreements between Tech Data and us be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. Operating Margin Analysis Income from operations decreased 7% in fiscal 2014 due to a $ 38.3 million or 2% decrease in net revenue and a $35.8 million or 15% increase in cost of revenue partially offset by a $ 53.0 million or 3% decline in our operating expenses, in each case as compared to the prior fiscal year. Our operating margin remained flat at 13% for fiscal 2014 and 2013 . The increase in cost of revenue was driven by an increase in cloud services-related expenses. Impacting the decline in operating expenses between fiscal 2014 and 2013 was the world-wide restructuring plan ("Fiscal 2013 Plan") approved by Autodesk during the third quarter of fiscal 2013 and the one-time stock-based compensation expense associated with the acquisition of Socialcam during the third quarter of fiscal 2013 . Partially offsetting the decline in operating expense were restructuring charges from the world-wide restructuring plan ("Fiscal 2014 Plan") approved by Autodesk during the third quarter of fiscal 2014 . 2014 Form 10-K 39 Table of Contents Further discussion regarding the cost of goods sold and operating expense activities are discussed below under the heading Results of Operations. Foreign Currency Analysis We generate a significant amount of our revenue in the U.S., Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, and France. Our revenue was negatively impacted by foreign exchange rate changes during fiscal 2014 , as compared to the prior fiscal year. Had applicable exchange rates from fiscal 2013 been in effect during fiscal 2014 and had we excluded foreign exchange hedge gains and losses from fiscal 2014 (on a constant currency basis), net revenue would have increased 1% compared to the prior fiscal year. Our total spend, defined as cost of revenue plus operating expenses, during fiscal 2014 decreased 1% on an as reported basis as compared to the prior fiscal year. Had applicable exchange rates from fiscal 2013 been in effect during fiscal 2014 and had we excluded foreign exchange hedge gains and losses from fiscal 2014 , total spend would have been minimally impacted by foreign exchange rate changes and would have remained flat on a constant currency basis compared to the prior fiscal year. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may have a significant effect on net revenue, total spend and income from operations in future periods. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate effect on a portion of the net revenue of certain anticipated transactions but do not attempt to completely mitigate the impact of fluctuations of such foreign currency against the U.S. dollar. Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items At January 31, 2014 , we had $ 2,544.4 million in cash and marketable securities. We completed fiscal 2014 with a higher deferred revenue balance and a lower accounts receivable balance as compared to the prior fiscal year. Our deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2014 included $ 789.3 million of deferred subscription revenue primarily related to customer maintenance contracts, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the life of the contracts. The term of our maintenance contracts is typically between one and three years. Our cash flow from operations increased 1% to $563.5 million as of January 31, 2014 from $559.1 million at January 31, 2013 . We repurchased 10.5 million shares of our common stock for $ 423.8 million during fiscal 2014 . Comparatively, we repurchased 12.5 million shares of our common stock for $ 431.2 million during fiscal 2013 . Further discussion regarding the balance sheet and cash flow activities are discussed below under the heading Liquidity and Capital Resources. Business Outlook Autodesk's business model is evolving. We continue to assess current business offerings including introducing more flexible license and service offerings that have ratable revenue streams. The accounting impact of these offerings and other business decisions are expected to result in an increase in the percentage of our ratable revenue, making for a more predictable business over time, while correspondingly reducing our upfront perpetual revenue stream. Over time, we expect our business model transition to expand our customer base by eliminating higher up-front licensing costs and providing more flexibility with how customers use our products. However, we expect the business model transition to cause our traditional upfront perpetual license revenue to decline without a corresponding decrease in expenses. In the future, we expect this business model transition will increase our long-term revenue growth rate by increasing the annual value per subscription and increasing our subscription base over time. We expect net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 will range from $560 million to $575 million, and that GAAP diluted earnings per share will range from $0.01 to $0.04 while non-GAAP diluted earnings per share will range from $0.19 to $0.22. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0.11 related to stock-based compensation expense, $0.06 related to the amortization of acquisition related intangibles and $0.01 related to restructuring charges. We expect net billings for fiscal 2015 to increase by approximately 5% to 8% compared to fiscal 2014.We expect net revenue for fiscal 2015 to increase by approximately 3% to 5% compared to fiscal 2014. Autodesk anticipates fiscal 2015 GAAP operating margin to be approximately 5% to 8% and non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 14% to 16%. The 14% non-GAAP operating margin excludes 6 percentage points related to stock-based compensation expense, and 3 percentage points related to the amortization of acquisition related intangibles. The 16% non-GAAP operating margin excludes 5 percentage points related to stock-based compensation expense, and 3 percentage points related to the amortization of acquisition related intangibles. Autodesk expects to add approximately 150,000-200,000 net new subscriptions. 2014 Form 10-K 40 Table of Contents Included within our guidance is the expected reduction in our operating margin for our acquisition of Delcam plc (Delcam). We remain diligent about managing our spend while making essential investments to drive growth. If we are unable to successfully achieve our major business initiatives we may not achieve our financial goals. Results of Operations Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2014 Increase (decrease) compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 Increase (decrease) compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 $ % $ % (in millions) Net Revenue: License and other (1) $ 1,254.9 $ (109.2 ) (8 )% $ 1,364.1 $ 29.7 2 % $ 1,334.4 Subscription (1) 1,019.0 70.9 7 % 948.1 66.9 8 % 881.2 $ 2,273.9 $ (38.3 ) (2 )% $ 2,312.2 $ 96.6 4 % $ 2,215.6 Net Revenue by Geographic Area: Americas $ 818.9 $ (17.3 ) (2 )% $ 836.2 $ 37.7 5 % $ 798.5 Europe, Middle East and Africa 851.8 (16.7 ) (2 )% 868.5 6.3 1 % 862.2 Asia Pacific 603.2 (4.3 ) (1 )% 607.5 52.6 9 % 554.9 $ 2,273.9 $ (38.3 ) (2 )% $ 2,312.2 $ 96.6 4 % $ 2,215.6 Net Revenue by Operating Segment: Platform Solutions and Emerging Business (1) $ 789.2 $ (53.8 ) (6 )% $ 843.0 $ 9.9 1 % $ 833.1 Architecture, Engineering and Construction (1) 730.6 29.5 4 % 701.1 74.7 12 % 626.4 Manufacturing (1) 579.4 5.6 1 % 573.8 33.5 6 % 540.3 Media and Entertainment (1) 174.7 (19.6 ) (10 )% 194.3 (21.5 ) (10 )% 215.8 $ 2,273.9 $ (38.3 ) (2 )% $ 2,312.2 $ 96.6 4 % $ 2,215.6 ____________________ (1) For comparability, the presentation of the balances at January 31, 2013 and January 31, 2012 were adjusted to align to current year presentation. Fiscal 2014 Net Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2013 Net Revenue License and Other Revenue License and other revenue consists of two components: all forms of product license revenue and other revenue. Product license revenue includes: software license revenue from the sale of new seat licenses and upgrades and product revenue for Creative Finishing. Other revenue includes revenue from consulting, training, Autodesk Developers Network and Creative Finishing customer support, and is recognized over time, as the services are performed. Total License and other revenue decreased 8% during fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 . This decrease was primarily due to a 7% decrease in product license revenue as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. The decline in product license revenue was primarily due to a decrease of 15% in revenue from our flagship products partially offset by an increase of 10% in our suites products. During fiscal 2014 , the 7% decrease in product license revenue was due to a 21% decrease in the number of seats sold partially offset by a 14% increase in the average net revenue per seat. Product license revenue, as a percentage of License and other revenue, was 84% for fiscal 2014 and 83% for fiscal 2013 . During fiscal 2014 , total other revenue represented 16% of License and other revenue. Other revenue decreased by 11% during fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 . This decrease is primarily due to a 56% decrease in our education products as a 2014 Form 10-K 41 Table of Contents result of our transition to granting no or low-cost software licenses to educational institutions in select regions and to key partners during fiscal 2014 , consistent with our strategy. Backlog related to current software license product orders that had not shipped at the end of the fiscal year decreased by $0.3 million from $20.0 million at January 31, 2013 to $19.7 million at January 31, 2014 . Backlog from current software license product orders that we have not yet shipped consists of orders from customers with approved credit status for currently available software products and may include both orders with current ship dates and orders with ship dates beyond the current fiscal period. Subscription Revenue Our Subscription revenue consists of two components: maintenance revenue for our software products and revenue for our cloud service offerings, including Autodesk 360. Our maintenance program provides our commercial and educational customers of perpetual products with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance program, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, downloadable training courses and online support. We recognize maintenance revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance agreement, which is generally between one and three years but can occasionally be as long as five years. Revenue for our cloud service offerings is recognized ratably over the contract term commencing with the date our service is made available to customers and all other revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied. Subscription revenue increased 7% during fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to a 9% increase in commercial maintenance revenue. The 9% increase in commercial maintenance revenue was due to a 4% increase from commercial enrollment during the corresponding maintenance contract term and a 5% increase from net revenue per maintenance seat. Commercial maintenance revenue represented 95% and 94% of Subscription revenue for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 , respectively. Changes in Subscription revenue lag changes in net billings for subscription contracts because we recognize the revenue from those contracts ratably over their contract terms. Net subscription billings remained flat during fiscal 2014 as compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to a decline in multi-year maintenance subscriptions partially offset by an increase in billings from suites, which have higher maintenance subscription prices. Our deferred subscription revenue balance at January 31, 2014 and January 31, 2013 was $ 789.3 million and $ 753.1 million , respectively, and primarily related to customer maintenance agreements, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance agreement. Net Revenue by Geographic Area Net revenue in the Americas geography decreased by 2% as reported and on a constant currency basis during fiscal 2014 , as compared to the prior fiscal year. This decrease was primarily due to a 13% decrease in our flagship product revenue partially offset by a 14% increase in our suites revenue in this geography during fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 . The decrease in our revenue in this geography was led by Canada and Brazil partially offset by an increase in revenue from the U.S. Net revenue in the Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") geography decreased by 2% , and remained flat on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2014 as compared to the prior fiscal year. This decrease was primarily due to a 13% decrease in our flagship products partially offset by a 21% increase in our suites products in this geography during fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 . The decrease in our revenue in this geography was led by Ireland, Sweden, and the Netherlands partially offset by an increase in revenue from Finland and the United Kingdom. Net revenue in the APAC geography decreased 1% and increased by 5% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2014 as compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 3% decrease in our flagship products partially offset by a 10% increase in our suites products in this geography. Our revenue in this geography during fiscal 2014 was impacted by decreases in revenue from Australia, Japan, and Taiwan, partially offset by an increase in revenue from China. Net revenue in emerging economies remained flat during fiscal 2014 as compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increases in revenue from Lebanon and China offset by a decrease in revenue from the Russian Federation. Revenue from emerging economies represented 15% and 14% of total net revenue for fiscal 2014 and 2013 , respectively. 2014 Form 10-K 42 Table of Contents International net revenue represented 70% and 71% of our total net revenue for fiscal 2014 and 2013 , respectively. We believe that international revenue will continue to comprise a majority of our total net revenue. Unfavorable economic conditions in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including in emerging economies, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies have significantly affected, and could continue to significantly affect, our financial results for a given period even though we hedge a portion of our current and projected revenue. Additionally, weak global economic conditions that have been characterized by restructuring of sovereign debt, high unemployment, and volatility in the financial markets may impact our future financial results. Net Revenue by Operating Segment We have four reportable segments: Platform Solutions and Emerging Business ("PSEB"), AEC, Manufacturing ("MFG") and Media and Entertainment ("M&E"). We have no material inter-segment revenue. Net revenue for PSEB decreased by 6% during fiscal 2014 as compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to a 9% and 4% decrease in revenue from our flagship products, AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT, respectively. Net revenue for AEC increased by 4% during fiscal 2014 as compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to a 31% increase in revenue from our AEC suites, which was primarily driven by Autodesk Building Design Suite and Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suite. Net revenue for MFG increased by 1% during fiscal 2014 as compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to a 9% increase in revenue from our MFG suites, which was primarily driven by the Autodesk Product Design Suite. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our flagship product, AutoCAD Mechanical. Net revenue for M&E decreased by 10% during fiscal 2014 as compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 7% decrease in revenue from Animation and a 17% decrease in revenue from Creative Finishing. The decrease in Animation revenue was primarily due to a 9% decrease in revenue from our flagship product, Maya, and a 16% decrease from our M&E suites, which was driven by our Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite. The decline in Creative Finishing was marked by a general decrease in M&E industry end-market demand. As more of our customers move to our suites products, our revenue on stand-alone products like 3Ds Max is expected to decrease because it is included in a number of our various segments' suites. Integration of our M&E offerings into our other segments' suites is part of our strategy and we believe it represents a growth opportunity for us over the long-term. Fiscal 2013 Net Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2012 Net Revenue This discussion has been updated to conform with the current period's presentation. License and Other Revenue Total license and other revenue increased 2% during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. This increase was primarily due to a 4% increase in product license revenue as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. The increase in product license revenue was primarily due to an increase of 16% in revenue from our suites products and a 3% increase in revenue from our flagship products. During fiscal 2013, the 4% increase in product license revenue was due to a 6% increase in the average net revenue per seat partially offset by a 2% decrease in the number of seats sold. Product license revenue, as a percentage of License and other revenue, was 83% for fiscal 2013 and 82% for fiscal 2012. During fiscal 2013, total other revenue represented 17% of License and other revenue. Other revenue decreased by 7% during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to a 34% decrease in our education products as a result of our transition to granting no or low-cost software licenses to educational institutions in select regions and to key partners during fiscal 2013, consistent with our strategy. Backlog related to current software license product orders that had not shipped at the end of the fiscal year decreased by $7.1 million during fiscal 2013 from $27.1 million at January 31, 2012 to $20.0 million at January 31, 2013. 2014 Form 10-K 43 Table of Contents Subscription Revenue Subscription revenue increased 8% during fiscal 2013, as compared to fiscal 2012, primarily due to a 4% increase in commercial maintenance revenue. The 4% increase in commercial maintenance revenue was due to an 8% increase from commercial enrollment during the corresponding maintenance contract term partially offset by a 4% decrease in average net revenue per maintenance seat. Commercial maintenance revenue represented 94% and 97% of Subscription revenue for fiscal 2013 and 2012. Net subscription billings increased 5% during fiscal 2013 as compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to early subscription renewals in advance of a price increase and due to new multi-year maintenance contracts. Our deferred subscription revenue balance at January 31, 2013 and January 31, 2012 was $753.1 million and $644.1 million, respectively, and primarily related to customer maintenance agreements, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance agreement. Net Revenue by Geographic Area Net revenue in the Americas geography increased by 5% both as reported and on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2013, as compared to fiscal 2012. This increase was primarily due to a 5% increase in our flagship product revenue and an 8% increase in our suites revenue during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. The increase in our revenue in this geography was led by the U.S. and Canada. Net revenue in the EMEA geography increased by 1%, or 3% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. The increase was primarily due to a 13% increase in our suites revenue partially offset by a 4% decrease in our flagship product revenue during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. The increase in our revenue in this geography was led by Ireland, Finland and Germany, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from Sweden and the United Kingdom. Net revenue in the APAC geography increased by 9%, or 8% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2013, as compared to fiscal 2012, primarily due to a 28% increase in our suites revenue and an 8% increase in flagship product revenue during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. Net revenue expansion in the APAC geography during fiscal 2013 was led by Japan, followed by China and South Korea. Net revenue in emerging economies decreased by 4%, or 2% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012, primarily due to a decrease in revenue from Brazil, Poland and India, partially offset by an increase in revenue from China. Revenue from emerging economies represented 14% of net revenue for fiscal 2013 and 16% for fiscal 2012. International net revenue represented 71% and 72% of our net revenue in fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, respectively. Net Revenue by Operating Segment Net revenue for PSEB, which includes our Autodesk Design Suite, increased 1% during fiscal 2013, as compared to fiscal 2012, primarily due to a 2% increase in revenue from our flagship AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products. Net revenue for AEC increased 12% during fiscal 2013, as compared to fiscal 2012, primarily due to a 22% increase in revenue from our AEC suites, which includes our Autodesk Building Design Suite. Net revenue for MFG increased 6% during fiscal 2013, as compared to fiscal 2012, primarily due to an 8% increase in revenue from our MFG suites, which includes the Autodesk Product Design Suite. Net revenue for M&E decreased 10% during fiscal 2013, as compared to fiscal 2012, primarily due to an 8% decrease in revenue from our Animation product group, which includes our Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite, and a 16% decrease in revenue from Creative Finishing. The decrease in Animation revenue was primarily due to a 22% decrease in revenue from our flagship product, 3Ds Max, partially offset by a 26% increase in revenue from our animation suites, which includes our Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite. The overall decrease in M&E revenue is related to a general decrease in the M&E industry end-market demand, as well as the inclusion of our M&E products in other Autodesk industry suites. 2014 Form 10-K 44 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost of Revenue For comparability, the balances at January 31, 2013 and January 31, 2012, including tables, were adjusted to align to current year presentation, and therefore the discussion has been updated accordingly. Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2014 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 $ % $ % (in millions) Cost of revenue: License and other $ 178.7 $ 12.7 8 % $ 166.0 $ (0.6 ) % $ 166.6 Subscription 95.6 23.1 32 % 72.5 10.0 16 % 62.5 $ 274.3 $ 35.8 15 % $ 238.5 $ 9.4 4 % $ 229.1 As a percentage of net revenue 12 % 10 % 10 % Cost of license and other revenue includes labor costs associated with product setup and fulfillment and costs of fulfilling consulting and training services contracts and collaborative project management services contracts. Cost of license and other revenue also includes stock-based compensation expense, direct material and overhead charges, amortization of purchased technology, professional services fees and royalties. Direct material and overhead charges include the cost of hardware sold (mainly PC-based workstations for Creative Finishing in the M&E segment), costs associated with transferring our software to electronic media, physical media, packaging materials and shipping and handling costs. Cost of license and other revenue increased 8% during fiscal 2014 , as compared to fiscal 2013 , primarily due to an increase in consulting support costs. Cost of license and other revenue remained flat during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to a decrease in Creative Finishing related expenses, consistent with the decline in Creative Finishing revenue, offset by an increase in stock-based compensation charges and amortization of acquisition related developed technologies. Cost of subscription revenue includes the labor costs of providing product support to our maintenance and cloud subscription customers, including rent and occupancy, shipping and handling costs, professional services fees related to operating our network infrastructure, including depreciation expense and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries and related expenses of network operations. Cost of subscription revenue increased 32% during fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to an increase in cloud services-related expenses. Cost of subscription revenue increased 16% during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 due to an increase in cloud services-related expenses partially offset by decrease in costs as a result of the move to more electronic fulfillment. Cost of revenue, at least over the near term, is affected by the volume and mix of product sales, mix of physical versus electronic fulfillment, fluctuations in consulting costs, amortization of purchased technology, new customer support offerings, royalty rates for licensed technology embedded in our products and employee stock-based compensation expense. We expect cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars and slightly increase as a percentage of net revenue during fiscal 2015 , as compared to fiscal 2014 , primarily due to an increase in costs associated with meeting our major business initiatives. 2014 Form 10-K 45 Table of Contents Marketing and Sales Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2014 Decrease compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 $ % $ % (in millions) Marketing and sales $ 842.6 $ (32.9 ) (4 )% $ 875.5 $ 32.9 4 % $ 842.6 As a percentage of net revenue 37 % 38 % 38 % Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our marketing and sales employees, the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and expositions, and various sales and promotional programs. Marketing and sales expenses also include labor costs of sales and order processing, sales and dealer commissions, rent and occupancy, and the cost of supplies and equipment. Marketing and sales expenses decreased 4% during fiscal 2014 , as compared to fiscal 2013 , primarily due to lower advertising and promotional expenses and employee-related costs from salaries, bonus and commissions. Marketing and sales expenses increased 4% during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to higher employee-related costs from salaries and fringe benefits and stock-based compensation primarily associated with increased headcount and merit increases in fiscal 2013. These costs were partially offset by a decrease in professional fees and advertising costs. We expect to balance our need to invest in the marketing and sales of our products with our desire to actively manage our sales and marketing operating expenses. As a result, we expect marketing and sales expense to increase in absolute dollars and slightly increase as a percentage of net revenue in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 , primarily due to an increase in costs as we work towards meeting our major business initiatives. Research and Development Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2014 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 $ % $ % (in millions) Research and development $ 611.1 $ 11.1 2 % $ 600.0 $ 33.5 6 % $ 566.5 As a percentage of net revenue 27 % 26 % 26 % Research and development expenses, which are expensed as incurred, consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for research and development employees, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, rent and occupancy, and professional services such as fees paid to software development firms and independent contractors. Research and development expenses increased 2% during fiscal 2014 , as compared to fiscal 2013 , primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs from salaries and fringe benefits and an increase in professional fees partially offset by a decline in stock-based compensation expense due to a one-time charge associated with the acquisition of Socialcam in fiscal 2013. Research and development expenses increased 6% during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense associated with the acquisition of Socialcam in the third quarter of fiscal 2013 and an increase in salaries and fringe benefits primarily due to merit increases in fiscal 2013. We expect research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars, and slightly increase as a percentage of net revenue during fiscal 2015 , as compared to fiscal 2014 , as we continue to invest in product development in fiscal 2015 . 2014 Form 10-K 46 Table of Contents General and Administrative Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2014 Decrease compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 $ % $ % (in millions) General and administrative $ 248.3 $ (0.1 ) % $ 248.4 $ 25.3 11 % $ 223.1 As a percentage of net revenue 11 % 11 % 10 % General and administrative expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our finance, human resources and legal employees, as well as professional fees for legal and accounting services, amortization of acquisition related customer relationships and trade names, gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges, expense of travel, entertainment and training, expense of communication and the cost of supplies and equipment. General and administrative expenses remained flat from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2014 . An increase in employee-related costs from salaries and fringe benefits were offset by a decrease in amortization of acquisition related customer relationships and trade names. General and administrative expenses increased 11% from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2013 , primarily due to an increase in amortization of acquisition related customer relationships and trade names and fluctuations in our operating expense hedge activity in fiscal 2013 . Also contributing to the increase was an increase in salaries primarily due to merit increases in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 . We expect general and administrative expense to slightly increase in absolute dollars but remain relatively consistent as a percentage of net revenue during fiscal 2015 , as compared to fiscal 2014 , primarily due to an increase in costs associated with supporting our major business initiatives. Restructuring Charges (Benefits), Net Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2014 Decrease compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 $ % $ % (in millions) Restructuring charges (benefits), net $ 12.8 $ (31.1 ) 71 % $ 43.9 $ 45.2 (3,477 )% $ (1.3 ) As a percentage of net revenue 1 % 2 % % During the third quarter of fiscal 2014 , our Board of Directors approved a world-wide restructuring plan in order to re-balance staffing levels to better align them with the evolving needs of the business. During fiscal 2014 , Autodesk recorded a restructuring charge of $ 12.8 million . Of this amount, $ 10.2 million was recorded for one-time termination benefits and other costs and $ 2.6 million was recorded for facilities-related costs. We expect to substantially pay the one-time termination benefits and facility related liabilities related to this plan by the end of our first quarter of fiscal 2015. During the third quarter of fiscal 2013, the our Board of Directors approved a world-wide restructuring plan in line with the Company's strategy, including its continuing shift to cloud and mobile computing. The approved plan included a reduction in force and the consolidation of certain leased facilities. As of January 31, 2014, the personnel and facilities related actions included in this restructuring plan were substantially complete. See Note 15 , Restructuring Reserves , in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 2014 Form 10-K 47 Table of Contents Interest and Other (Expense) Income, Net The following table sets forth the components of interest and other income, net: Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) Interest and investment (expense) income, net (1) $ (9.8 ) $ 4.9 $ 5.4 Gain (loss) on foreign currency 4.0 1.2 (1.1 ) (Loss) gain on strategic investments (1) (1.8 ) (4.0 ) 0.3 Other income 2.7 2.0 2.7 Interest and other (expense) income, net $ (4.9 ) $ 4.1 $ 7.3 ____________________ (1) For comparability, the presentation of the balances at January 31, 2012 was adjusted to align to current year presentation. Interest and other (expense) income, net, decreased $ 9.0 million during fiscal 2014 , as compared to fiscal 2013 , primarily due to a reduction in our net interest and investment (expense) income. The decrease in interest and investment (expense) income, net, during fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 is primarily due to interest expense resulting from the December 2012 issuance of $ 400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.95% senior notes due December 15, 2017 and $ 350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.6% senior notes due December 15, 2022 . Interest and investment income fluctuates based on average cash, marketable securities and debt balances, average maturities and interest rates. Interest and other income, net, decreased $ 3.2 million during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to a reduction in our net interest and investment income and losses incurred due to impairments of certain strategic investments. A loss on strategic investments occurs when a net reduction in valuation occurs or an impairment is recorded. Impairment results from the determination that the value of the investment is no longer recoverable. Provision for Income Taxes We account for income taxes and the related accounts under the liability method. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the basis differences reverse. Our effective tax rate was 18% and 20% during fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 , respectively. Our effective tax rate decreased two percentage points from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2014 due to an increase in tax benefits from foreign earnings taxed at different rates in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013, offset in part by lower tax benefits from restructuring and additional tax expense associated with uncertain tax positions and audit assessements. Our effective tax rate was 20% and 21% during fiscal 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Our effective tax rate decreased one percentage point from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2013 primarily due to an increase in tax benefits from foreign earnings taxed at lower rates in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 , partially offset by tax benefits associated with closure of audits in fiscal 2011. Our future effective tax rate may be materially impacted by the amount of benefits and charges from tax amounts associated with our foreign earnings that are taxed at rates different from the federal statutory rate, research credits, state income taxes, the tax impact of stock-based compensation, accounting for uncertain tax positions, business combinations, U.S. Manufacturer's deduction, closure of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits, changes in valuation allowances and changes in tax laws including possible U.S. tax law changes that, if enacted, could significantly impact how U.S. multinational companies are taxed on foreign subsidiary earnings. A significant amount of our earnings is generated by our Europe and Asia Pacific subsidiaries. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates or we repatriate certain foreign earnings on which U.S. taxes have not previously been provided. 2014 Form 10-K 48 Table of Contents At January 31, 2014 , we had net deferred tax assets of $ 187.9 million . We believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions to realize these assets. For additional information regarding our income tax provision and reconciliation of our effective rate to the federal statutory rate of 35%, see Note 4 , Income Taxes , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Financial Information In addition to our results determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) discussed above, we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance. For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , our gross profit, gross margin, income from operations, operating margin, net income and diluted earnings per share on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis were as follows (in millions except for gross margin, operating margin and per share data): January 31, 2014 January 31, 2013 January 31, 2012 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 1,999.6 $ 2,073.7 $ 1,986.5 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 2,049.8 $ 2,118.6 $ 2,028.4 Gross margin 88 % 90 % 90 % Non-GAAP gross margin 90 % 92 % 92 % Income from operations $ 284.8 $ 305.9 $ 355.6 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 510.5 $ 587.9 $ 533.4 Operating margin 13 % 13 % 16 % Non-GAAP operating margin 22 % 25 % 24 % Net income $ 228.8 $ 247.4 $ 285.3 Non-GAAP net income (1) $ 385.6 $ 450.0 $ 405.1 Diluted earnings per share (2) $ 1.00 $ 1.07 $ 1.22 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (1) (2) $ 1.68 $ 1.94 $ 1.74 _______________ (1) Effective in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, Autodesk began excluding gains and losses on strategic investments for purposes of its non-GAAP financial measures. Prior period non-GAAP interest and other income (expense), net, net income and earnings per share amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation. (2) Earnings per share were computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the earnings per share amount for the quarters may not equal the total for the year. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons, we use non-GAAP measures to supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis. These non-GAAP measures do not include certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. We use non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe those measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our earning potential and performance for management by excluding certain expenses and charges that may not be indicative of our core business operating results. For the reasons set forth below, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. This allows investors and others to better understand and evaluate our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as management, compare financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies and to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. We also use some of these measures for purposes of determining company-wide incentive compensation. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures included above are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which charges are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our 2014 Form 10-K 49 Table of Contents public disclosures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is meant to be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from, the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 2014 Form 10-K 50 Table of Contents Reconciliation of GAAP Financial Measures to Non-GAAP Financial Measures (In millions except for gross margin, operating margin and per share data): Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2014 2013 2012 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 1,999.6 $ 2,073.7 $ 1,986.5 Stock-based compensation expense 6.0 5.2 3.9 Amortization of purchased intangibles 44.2 39.7 38.0 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 2,049.8 $ 2,118.6 $ 2,028.4 Gross margin 88 % 90 % 90 % Stock-based compensation expense % % % Amortization of purchased intangibles 2 % 2 % 2 % Non-GAAP gross margin 90 % 92 % 92 % Income from operations $ 284.8 $ 305.9 $ 355.6 Stock-based compensation expense 132.2 156.3 108.8 Amortization of purchased intangibles 80.7 81.8 70.3 Restructuring charges (benefits), net 12.8 43.9 (1.3 ) Non-GAAP income from operations $ 510.5 $ 587.9 $ 533.4 Operating margin 13 % 13 % 16 % Stock-based compensation expense 6 % 7 % 5 % Amortization of purchased intangibles 3 % 3 % 3 % Restructuring charges (benefits), net % 2 % % Non-GAAP operating margin 22 % 25 % 24 % Net income $ 228.8 $ 247.4 $ 285.3 Stock-based compensation expense 132.2 156.3 108.8 Amortization of purchased intangibles 80.7 81.8 70.3 Restructuring charges (benefits), net 12.8 43.9 (1.3 ) Loss (gain) on strategic investments (1) 1.8 4.0 (0.3 ) Discrete tax provision items (10.2 ) (26.7 ) (6.8 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (60.5 ) (56.7 ) (50.9 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 385.6 $ 450.0 $ 405.1 Diluted net income per share (2) $ 1.00 $ 1.07 $ 1.22 Stock-based compensation expense 0.57 0.67 0.47 Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.35 0.36 0.30 Restructuring charges (benefits), net 0.06 0.18 (0.01 ) Loss (gain) on strategic investments (1) 0.02 Discrete tax provision items (0.04 ) (0.12 ) (0.03 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (0.26 ) (0.24 ) (0.21 ) Non-GAAP diluted net income per share (2) $ 1.68 $ 1.94 $ 1.74 ____________________ (1) Effective in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, Autodesk began excluding gains and losses on strategic investments for purposes of its non-GAAP financial measures. Prior period non-GAAP interest and other income (expense), net, net income and earnings per share amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation. (2) Earnings per share were computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the earnings per share amount for the quarters may not equal the total for the year. 2014 Form 10-K 51 Table of Contents Our non-GAAP financial measures may exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expense s. We exclude stock-based compensation expenses from non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use under FASB ASC Topic 718, we believe excluding stock-based compensation expenses allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies. Amortization of purchased intangibles. We incur amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. Amortization of intangible assets is inconsistent in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of our acquisitions. Management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Amortization of purchased intangible assets will recur in future periods. Goodwill impairment. This is a non-cash charge to write-down goodwill to fair value when there was an indication that the asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Restructuring charges (benefits), net. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancellation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing business and operating results. We believe it is useful for investors to understand the effects of these items on our total operating expenses. Loss (gain) on strategic investments. We exclude gains and losses related to our strategic investments from our non-GAAP measures primarily because management finds it useful to exclude these variable gains and losses on these investments in assessing our financial results. Included in these amounts are non-cash unrealized gains and losses on the derivative components and realized gains and losses on the sale or losses on the impairment of these investments. We believe excluding these items is useful to investors because these excluded items do not correlate to the underlying performance of our business and these losses or gains were incurred in connection with strategic investments which do not occur regularly. Establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets. This is a non-cash charge to record a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various cash expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Discrete tax items. We exclude the GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from the non-GAAP measure of income, and include a non-GAAP tax provision based upon the projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Discrete tax items include income tax expenses or benefits that do not relate to ordinary income from continuing operations in the current fiscal year, unusual or infrequently occurring items, or the tax impact of certain stock-based compensation. Examples of discrete tax items include, but are not limited to, certain changes in judgment and changes in estimates of tax matters related to prior fiscal years, certain costs related to business combinations, certain changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets or changes in tax law. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to ongoing operations. We believe the exclusion of these discrete tax items provides investors with useful supplemental information about the Company's operational performance. Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses. The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP expenses, primarily due to stock-based compensation, amortization of purchased intangibles and restructuring charges (benefits) for GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of cash is from the sale of licenses to our products. Our primary use of cash is payment of our operating costs which consist primarily of employee-related expenses, such as compensation and benefits, as well as general operating expenses for marketing, facilities and overhead costs. In addition to operating expenses, we also use cash to fund our 2014 Form 10-K 52 Table of Contents stock repurchase program and invest in our growth initiatives, which include acquisitions of products, technology and businesses. See further discussion of these items below. At January 31, 2014 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $ 2,544.4 million and net accounts receivable of $ 423.7 million . In fiscal 2013, we issued $ 400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.95% senior notes due December 15, 2017 and $ 350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.6% senior notes due December 15, 2022 , (collectively, the "Senior Notes"). As of March 10, 2014 , we have $ 750.0 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes outstanding. In addition, we have a line of credit facility that permits unsecured short-term borrowings of up to $ 400.0 million . As of March 10, 2014 , we have no amounts outstanding under the credit facility. We amended and restated the credit facility in May 2013. The amended and restated credit facility expires in May 2018. Borrowings under the credit facility and the net proceeds from the offering of the Senior Notes are available for general corporate purposes. Our cash and cash equivalents are held by diversified financial institutions globally. Our primary commercial banking relationship is with Citigroup and its global affiliates. In addition, Citibank N.A., an affiliate of Citigroup, is one of the lead lenders and agent in the syndicate of our $ 400.0 million line of credit. The increase in our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities to $ 2,544.4 million at January 31, 2014 from $ 2,365.4 million at January 31, 2013 is due to cash generated by operating activities, and proceeds from the issuance of common stock following stock option exercises and employee stock plan purchases. These increases to cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are partially offset by cash used for repurchases of common stock, acquisitions including business combination and technology purchases, capital expenditures, and other investing activities. The cash proceeds from issuance of common stock varies based on our stock price, stock option exercise activity and the volume of employee purchases under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESP Plan). The primary source for net cash provided by operating activities of $ 563.5 million for fiscal 2014 was net income of $ 228.8 million increased by the effect of non-cash expenses totaling $ 261.1 million associated with depreciation, amortization, accretion and stock-based compensation. In addition, net cash flow provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities was $ 86.0 million . The primary source of working capital was a decrease in accounts receivable and an increase in deferred revenue for fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 . Our days sales outstanding in trade receivables was 66 at January 31, 2014 compared to 74 at January 31, 2013 . The days sales outstanding decrease relates primarily to improved billings linearity and strong cash collections resulting in a lower accounts receivable balance compared to the prior year. The primary working capital uses of cash were an increase in deferred income taxes. At January 31, 2014 , our short-term investment portfolio had an estimated fair value of $ 414.1 million and a cost basis of $ 410.8 million . The portfolio fair value consisted of $ 261.0 million invested in commercial paper and corporate securities, $ 42.7 million invested in agency bonds, $ 38.9 million invested in mutual funds, $ 37.1 million invested in time deposits with remaining maturities at the date of purchase greater than 90 days and less than one year, $ 11.7 million invested in municipal securities, $ 11.4 million invested in other short-term securities, and $ 11.3 million invested in U.S. government agency securities. At January 31, 2014 , $ 38.9 million of trading securities were invested in a defined set of mutual funds as directed by the participants in our Deferred Compensation Plan (see Note 6 , Deferred Compensation , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). Long-term cash requirements for items other than normal operating expenses are anticipated for the following: common stock repurchases; the acquisition of businesses, software products, or technologies complementary to our business; and capital expenditures, including the purchase and implementation of internal-use software applications. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. Our decision to acquire businesses or technology is dependent on our business needs, the availability of suitable sellers and technology, and our own financial condition. 2014 Form 10-K 53 Table of Contents On November 7, 2013, we entered into a definitive agreement with the shareholders of Delcam plc (Delcam) to acquire the entire issued and to be issued share capital for 20.75 per share, or approximately 174.6 million or $ 284.6 million . The transaction closed on February 6, 2014. Other than the Delcam acquisition, as of Ja nuary 31, 2014, there have been no material changes in our contractual obligations or commercial commitments compared to those disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition. Our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances are concentrated in a few locations around the world, with substantial amounts held outside of the U.S. As of January 31, 2014 , approximately 75% of our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are located offshore and will fluctuate subject to business needs. Certain amounts held outside the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. (subject to local law restrictions), but under current U.S. tax law, could be subject to U.S. income taxes less applicable foreign tax credits. We have provided for the U.S. income tax liability on foreign earnings, except for foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside the U.S. Our intent is that amounts related to foreign earnings permanently reinvested outside the U.S. will remain outside the U.S. and we will meet our U.S. liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. We regularly review our capital structure and consider a variety of potential financing alternatives and planning strategies to ensure we have the proper liquidity available in the locations in which it is needed and to fund our existing stock buy-back program with cash that has not been permanently reinvested outside the U.S. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part I, Item 1A titled Risk Factors . However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our revenue, earnings, cash flows, receivables and payables are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, for which we have put in place foreign currency contracts as part of our risk management strategy. See Part II, Item 7A,