ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion in our MD&A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q contains trend analyses and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies, including those discussed in Strategy below, anticipated future net revenue, future operating margin and other future financial results (by product type and geography) and operating expenses, the effectiveness of our internal reorganization and restructuring efforts, the effectiveness of efforts to reduce our operating expenses, expected market trends, including the growth of cloud, mobile and social computing, the effect of unemployment and availability of credit, the effects of weak global economic conditions, our backlog, expected trends in certain financial metrics, the impact of acquisitions and investment activities, the effects of fluctuations in exchange rates and our hedging activities on our financial results, our abilities to successfully expand adoption of our products, our ability to gain market acceptance of new businesses and sales initiatives, our ability to successfully increase sales of product suites as part of our overall sales strategy, and the impact of economic volatility and geopolitical activities in certain countries, particularly emerging economy countries, and the resulting effect on our financial results. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product acceptance, continuation of our stock repurchase program, statements regarding our liquidity and short-term and long-term cash requirements, as well as, statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as may, believe, could, anticipate, would, might, plan, expect, and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Form 10-Q and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of the factors set forth below in Part II, Item 1A , Risk Factors , and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made , except as required by law . Note: A glossary of terms used in this Form 10-Q appears at the end of this Item 2. Strategy Autodesks vision is to help people imagine, design and create a better world. We do this by developing software for the worlds designers, architects, engineers, and digital artists, professionals and non-professionals alikethe people who create the world's products, buildings, infrastructure, films, and games. Autodesk serves customers in three primary markets: architecture, engineering and construction; manufacturing; and digital media and entertainment. Our goal is to provide our customers with the worlds most innovative, and engaging design software and services. Our product and services portfolio allows our customers to digitally visualize, simulate, and analyze their projects, helping them to better understand the consequences of their design decisions; save time, money, and resources; and become more innovative. Today, complex challenges such as globalization, urbanization, and sustainable design are driving our customers to new levels of performance and competitiveness, and we are committed to helping them address those challenges and take advantage of new opportunities. To achieve these goals, we are capitalizing on two of our strongest competitive advantages: our ability to bring advanced technology to mainstream markets, and the breadth and depth of our product portfolio. By innovating within existing technology categories, we bring powerful new design capabilities to volume markets. Our products are designed to be easy-to-learn and use, and to provide customers with a low cost of deployment, a low total cost of ownership, and a rapid return on investment. In addition, our software architecture allows for extensibility and integration with other products. The breadth of our technology and product line gives us a unique competitive advantage, because it allows our customers to address a wide variety of problems in ways that transcend industry and disciplinary boundaries. This is particularly important in helping our customers address the complex challenges mentioned above. We also believe that our technological leadership and global brand recognition have positioned us well for long-term growth and industry leadership. In addition to the competitive advantages afforded by our technology, our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, faculty and students is a key competitive advantage. This network of relationships provides us with a broad and deep reach into volume markets around the world. Our distributor and reseller network is extensive and provides our customers with the resources to purchase, deploy, learn, and support our products quickly and easily. We have a significant number of registered third-party developers who create products that work well with our products and extend them for a variety of specialized applications. 26 We offer extensive educational programs supporting our software and services that include providing educational licenses for our software to all students and teachers for little or no fees. For example, during the three months ended April 30, 2013, we initiated a new program offering minimal cost software licenses to educational institutions in emerging economies. Through our partners, we also offer curricula and faculty development opportunities to educational institutions worldwide. Through these programs we intend to further Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education initiatives. With an extensive global community of students who are experienced with our software and poised to become the next generation of professional users - our goal is to reduce the cost of training and education of new talent for our customers. We continually strive to increase the business value of our design tools to our customers in a number of ways. First, we seek to address an increasing portion of our customers' workflow with products that extend the value of our customers' digital design information into visualization, analysis and simulation. Second, we seek to improve our product interoperability and usability, thus improving our customers' productivity and effectiveness. Third, we continue to develop new ways to deliver capability and value to our customers, such as product suites, cloud and social-based services, and delivery of our solutions on mobile devices and new hardware platforms. Fourth, we extend our customers' workflow with products for adjacent users and for the customers of our customers, thus increasing the value of the design information our customers produce. Finally, we continue to develop new lines of consumer products and services that are delivered and experienced through the Web, tablets, and other mobile devices providing our advanced visualization technologies to consumersa whole new category of Autodesk customer. Autodesk was founded during the platform transition from mainframes and engineering workstations to personal computers. We developed and sustained a compelling value proposition based upon desktop software for the personal computer. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry thirty years ago, we believe our industry is undergoing a similar transition from the personal computer to cloud, social, and mobile computing. To address this shift, our major business initiatives include our desire to accelerate the business' move to the cloud, transform our customers' experience, increase industry focus to meet customer demands, and develop more effective marketing. Our growth strategy is predicated upon leading the transition in the industries we serve into the cloud in three ways: Grow. We believe opportunity remains in our PC-based software business, and we intend to continue to grow this business. In particular we are offering product suites with improved interoperability and usability to enhance our customers' productivity. We are continuing to drive maintenance and new licensing models to better match the business needs of our customers. We will continue to emphasize developing direct relationships with large, global customers and pursuing opportunities in emerging economies. Transform. At the same time we grow our desktop software business, we are migrating many of our products to the cloud. This entails development of new cloud computing infrastructure and redesigning our applications to leverage the cloud. We are also developing new capabilities that are enabled by the cloud such as collaborative Product Lifecycle Management ("PLM") and online simulation. Our goal is to lead our industry in transitioning to the cloud. Expand. We believe that the combination of cloud, social and mobile computing affords us the opportunity to expand our business into new markets. For example, we have added new customers through our consumer products. We intend to continue to develop our business to both add new customers and find new capabilities to incorporate in our core business. We believe that expanding our customers' portfolios to include our suites presents a meaningful growth opportunity and is an important part of our overall strategy. As our customers in all industries adopt our design suites, we believe they will experience an increase in their productivity and the value of their design data. For the three months ended April 30, 2013 , revenue from suites increased 8% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. As a percentage of revenue, suites consisted of 31% of our net revenue in the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to 28% of our net revenue in the three months ended April 30, 2012 . Expanding our geographic coverage is another key element of our growth strategy. Much of the growth in the worlds construction and manufacturing is happening in emerging economies. Further, emerging economies face many of the challenges that our design technology can help address, for example infrastructure build-out. Although revenue from emerging economies decreased 8% during the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, we believe that emerging economies continue to present long-term growth opportunities for us. Revenue from emerging countries represented 13% of net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2013 , as compared to 14% of net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2012 . While we believe there are long-term growth opportunities in emerging economies, conducting business in these countries presents significant challenges, including economic volatility, geopolitical risk, local 27 competition, intellectual property protection, poorly developed business infrastructure, scarcity of talent, software piracy and different purchase patterns as compared to the developed world. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and may, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. Our strategy depends upon a number of assumptions, including that we will be able to continue making our technology available to mainstream markets; leverage our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, and students; improve the performance and functionality of our products; and adequately protect our intellectual property. If the outcome of any of these assumptions differs from our expectations, we may not be able to implement our strategy, which could potentially adversely affect our business. For further discussion regarding these and related risks see Part II , Item 1A , Risk Factors . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on amounts reported in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We regularly reevaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013 . In addition, we highlighted those policies that involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity with further discussion in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in such Form 10-K. We believe these policies are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Updates on the relevant periodic financial disclosures related to these policies are provided below. Income Taxes. We currently have $190.3 million of net deferred tax assets, primarily a result of tax credits, net operating losses, capital losses, and timing differences for reserves, accrued liabilities, stock options and restricted stock units, fixed assets, deferred revenue, purchased technologies and capitalized intangibles, partially offset by the establishment of U.S. deferred tax liabilities on unremitted earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries, deferred tax liabilities associated with tax method change on advanced payments and valuation allowances against U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets. We perform a quarterly assessment of the recoverability of these net deferred tax assets and believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions to realize the net deferred tax assets. Our judgments regarding future profitability may change due to future market conditions and other factors. Any change in future profitability may require material adjustments to these net deferred tax assets, resulting in a reduction in net income in the period when such determination is made. We believe our tax positions, including intercompany transfer pricing policies, are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. It is possible that these positions may be challenged by jurisdictional tax authorities and that such challenges may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate. Overview of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2013 (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2013 As a % of Net Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 As a % of Net Revenue Net Revenue $ 570.4 100 % $ 588.6 100 % Cost of revenue 67.5 12 % 58.8 10 % Gross Profit 502.9 88 % 529.8 90 % Operating expenses 421.5 74 % 435.8 74 % Income from Operations $ 81.4 14 % $ 94.0 16 % Our results in the three months ended April 30, 2013 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, reflect the current uneven global economic environment, which has impacted our business on almost every front. During the three months 28 ended April 30, 2013 , as compared to same period in the prior fiscal year, net revenue decreased 3% , gross profit decreased 5% and income from operations decreased 13% . Contributing to the year over year decreases in revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2013 were decreases in license and other revenue partially offset by increases in subscription revenue. We experienced decreases in revenue for many of our major products, reportable segments and geographic areas during the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. The reasons for these decreases are discussed below under the heading "Results from Operations." Revenue from flagship products was 55% of total net revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2013 , a decrease of 9% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Revenue from suites was 31% of total net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2013 , an increase of 8% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Revenue from new and adjacent products was flat as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year at 14% of total net revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2013 . We anticipate that, as our new and existing customers migrate from our stand-alone products, our revenue from suites will increase as a percentage of revenue and that our revenue from our flagship and new and adjacent products will decline as a percentage of revenue. While net revenue decreased $18.2 million or 3% for the three months ended April 30, 2013 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, our operating expenses also decreased by $14.3 million or 3% for the three months ended April 30, 2013 . The decrease in operating expenses was primarily related to lower employee related costs and marketing related costs during the three months ended April 30, 2013 . Similarly, income from operations decreased 13% in the three months ended April 30, 2013 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, and our total operating margin decreased from 16% for the three months ended April 30, 2012 to 14% for the three months ended April 30, 2013 due primarily to lower revenue related to foreign currency exchange headwinds and increased costs of goods sold during the three months ended April 30, 2013 . We generate a significant amount of our revenue in the U.S., Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom and France. Our revenue was negatively impacted from foreign exchange rate changes during the three months ended April 30, 2013 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Had applicable exchange rates from the three months ended April 30, 2012 been in effect during the three months ended April 30, 2013 and had we excluded foreign exchange hedge gains and losses from the three months ended April 30, 2013 , (on a constant currency basis), net revenue would have been flat compared to the prior fiscal year. During the three months ended April 30, 2013 , total spend, defined as cost of revenue plus operating expenses, decreased 1% as reported and remained flat on a constant currency basis compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may have a significant effect on net revenue, total spend and income from operations in future periods. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate effect on a portion of the net revenue of certain anticipated transactions but do not attempt to completely mitigate the impact of fluctuation of such foreign currency against the U.S. dollar. We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (collectively, Tech Data). Tech Data accounted for 25% and 22% of our consolidated net revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. We believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech Data. Our customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of the agreements between Tech Data and us be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. Our primary goals for the remainder of fiscal 2014 are to grow revenue from our current levels consistent with seasonal trends, manage our operating margin, and to invest in product functionality and new product lines, including suites offerings, while controlling our operating expenses. In addition, we will continue to look closely at our cost structure to find ways to improve our operating margin while allowing continued investment in growth and productivity initiatives. We believe net revenue for fiscal 2014 will increase by approximately 3% compared to fiscal 2013. We anticipate fiscal 2014 operating margin will increase by approximately 50 to 100 basis points compared to fiscal 2013. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our financial goals and improve our financial results. Additionally, we believe that unemployment rates and the availability of credit to major industries we serve are important indicators for our business. If we are unable to successfully achieve our major business initiatives or if global economic conditions deteriorate, we may not achieve our financial goals. 29 At April 30, 2013 , we had $ 2,479.9 million in cash and marketable securities. We completed the three months ended April 30, 2013 with a higher deferred revenue balance and a lower accounts receivable balance as compared to the end of the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013 . Our deferred revenue balance at April 30, 2013 included $754.9 million of customer maintenance contracts, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the life of the contracts. The term of our maintenance contracts is typically between one and three years. We repurchased 3.2 million shares of our common stock for $ 129.2 million during the three months ended April 30, 2013 . Comparatively, we repurchased 2.5 million shares of our common stock for $ 99.2 million during the three months ended April 30, 2012 . Results of Operations Net Revenue Three Months Ended Increase/(Decrease) compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2013 $ % April 30, 2012 Net Revenue: License and other $ 323.5 $ (31.7 ) (9 )% $ 355.2 Subscription 246.9 13.5 6 % 233.4 $ 570.4 $ (18.2 ) (3 )% $ 588.6 Net Revenue by Geographic Area: Americas $ 202.2 $ (5.4 ) (3 )% $ 207.6 Europe, Middle East and Africa 216.2 (8.2 ) (4 )% 224.4 Asia Pacific 152.0 (4.6 ) (3 )% 156.6 $ 570.4 $ (18.2 ) (3 )% $ 588.6 Net Revenue by Operating Segment: Platform Solutions and Emerging Business $ 212.7 $ (14.1 ) (6 )% $ 226.8 Architecture, Engineering and Construction 172.1 6.4 4 % 165.7 Manufacturing 139.1 (6.5 ) (4 )% 145.6 Media and Entertainment 46.5 (4.0 ) (8 )% 50.5 $ 570.4 $ (18.2 ) (3 )% $ 588.6 License and Other Revenue License and other revenue consists of two components: all forms of product license revenue and other revenue. Product license revenue includes: software license revenue from the sale of new seat licenses and upgrades and product revenue for Creative Finishing. Other revenue includes revenue from consulting, training, Autodesk Developers Network and Creative Finishing customer support, and is recognized over time, as the services are performed. Total license and other revenue decreased 9% during the three months ended April 30, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2012 . This decrease was primarily due to a 9% decrease in product license revenue as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. The decline in product license revenue was primarily due to a 13% decline in revenue from our flagship products partially offset by a 3% increase in our suites products. During the three months ended April 30, 2013 , 23 percentage points of the 9% decrease in product licenses revenue were due to the decrease in the number of seats sold offset by 14 percentage points due to an increase in the average net revenue per seat. Product license revenue, as a percentage of license and other revenue, was 86% for the three months ended April 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. During the three months ended April 30, 2013, total other revenue represented 14% of License and other revenue. Other revenue decreased by 11% during the three months ended April 30, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2012 primarily due to a 51% decrease in our education products as we began offering software licenses to educational institutions in emerging economies at little or no cost during the three months ended April 30, 2013 , consistent with our strategy. 30 Backlog related to current software license product orders that had not shipped at the end of the quarter decreased by $18.3 million during the three months ended April 30, 2013 from $20.0 million at January 31, 2013 to $1.7 million at April 30, 2013 . Backlog from current software license product orders that we have not yet shipped consists of orders for currently available licensed software products from customers with approved credit status and may include orders with current ship dates and orders with ship dates beyond the current fiscal period. Subscription Revenue Our subscription revenue consists of two components: maintenance revenue for our software products and revenue for our cloud service offerings, including Autodesk 360. Our maintenance program provides our commercial and educational customers with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance program, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, downloadable training courses and online support. We recognize maintenance revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance agreement, which is generally between one and three years but can occasionally be as long as five years. Revenue for our cloud subscription represented less than 3% of subscription revenue for all periods presented. Revenue for our cloud subscription services is recognized ratably over the contract term commencing with the date our service is made available to customers and all other revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied. Subscription revenue increased 6% during the three months ended April 30, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2012 , primarily due to a 6% increase in commercial maintenance revenue. The 6% increase in commercial maintenance revenue was due to a 3 percentage point increase from net revenue per maintenance seat and a 3 percentage point increase from commercial enrollment during the corresponding maintenance contract term. Commercial maintenance revenue represented 96% of subscription revenue for both the three months ended April 30, 2013 and 2012 . Changes in subscription revenue lag changes in net billings for subscription contracts because we recognize the revenue from those contracts ratably over their contract terms. Net subscription billings increased 8% during the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to an increase in one year maintenance contracts. Our deferred revenue balance at April 30, 2013 and January 31, 2013 included $ 754.9 million and $ 733.5 million , respectively, related to customer maintenance contracts, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the life of the contracts. Net Revenue by Geographic Area Net revenue in the Americas geography decreased by 3% during the three months ended April 30, 2013 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. This decrease was primarily due to a 7% decrease in our flagship products in this geography partially offset by a 7% increase in our new and adjacent products during the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2012 . Suites revenue remained flat during the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2012 . The decrease in our revenue in this geography was led by Canada and Brazil partially offset by an increase in Mexico. Net revenue in the EMEA geography decreased by 4% , or increased by 1% on a constant currency basis, during the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. This decrease was primarily due to a 12% decrease in our flagship products in this geography partially offset by a 16% increase in our suites products during the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2012 .The decrease in our revenue in this geography was led by Sweden, Ireland and the Netherlands partially offset by an increase in revenue from Finland and United Kingdom. Net revenue in the APAC geography decreased by 3% and increased by 1% on a constant currency basis, during the three months ended April 30, 2013 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. This decrease was primarily due to a 7% decrease in our flagship products in this geography partially offset by an 8% increase in our suites products during the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2012 . The decrease in our revenue in this geography during the three months ended April 30, 2013 was led by South Korea and Australia partially offset by an increase in Japan. 31 Net revenue in emerging economies decreased 8% during the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to decreases in revenue from Brazil and the Russian Federation partially offset by an increase in Mexico. Revenue from emerging economies represented 13% and 14% of total net revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. International net revenue represented 71% and 72% of our total net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. We believe that international revenue will continue to comprise a majority of our total net revenue. Unfavorable economic conditions in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including in emerging economies, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies have significantly affected, and could continue to significantly affect, our financial results for a given period even though we hedge a portion of our current and projected revenue. Additionally, weak global economic conditions that have been characterized by restructuring of sovereign debt, high unemployment, and volatility in the financial markets may impact our future financial results. Net Revenue by Operating Segment We have four reportable segments: Platform Solutions and Emerging Business (PSEB), Architecture, Engineering and Construction (AEC), Manufacturing (MFG) and Media and Entertainment (M&E). We have no material inter-segment revenue. During the three months ended April 30, 2013 , net revenue for PSEB decreased 6% as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to a 7% and 5% decrease in revenue from our flagship products, AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products, respectively. During the three months ended April 30, 2013 , net revenue for AEC increased 4% as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to a 14% increase in revenue from our AEC suites, which includes our Autodesk Building Design Suite, partially offset by a 16% decrease in revenue from our flagship product, AutoCAD Architecture. During the three months ended April 30, 2013 , net revenue for MFG decreased 4% as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to a 39% decrease in revenue from our flagship product, AutoCAD Mechanical, partially offset by an 8% increase in revenue from our MFG suites, which includes the Autodesk Product Design Suite. During the three months ended April 30, 2013 , net revenue for M&E decreased 8% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 9% decrease in revenue from Animation and a 5% decrease in revenue from Creative Finishing. The decrease in Animation revenue was primarily due to a 17% decrease in revenue from our flagship product, 3Ds Max, a 38% decrease in revenue from our new and adjacent Middleware products and a 12% decrease in revenue from our M&E suites, which includes our Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite. The decline in Creative Finishing was marked by weakening demand across all geographic regions. As more of our customers move to our suites products, our revenue on stand-alone products like 3Ds Max may decrease because it is included in a number of our various segments' suites. This move to our suites is part of our strategy and represents a growth opportunity for us over the long-term. Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended Increase compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2013 $ % April 30, 2012 Cost of revenue: License and other $ 44.4 $ 3.6 9 % $ 40.8 Subscription 23.1 5.1 28 % 18.0 $ 67.5 $ 8.7 15 % $ 58.8 As a percentage of net revenue 12 % 10 % Cost of license and other revenue includes labor costs of product setup and fulfillment and costs of fulfilling consulting and training services contracts and collaborative project management services contracts. Cost of license and other revenue also includes stock-based compensation expense, direct material and overhead charges, amortization of purchased technology, 32 professional services fees and royalties. Direct material and overhead charges include the cost of hardware sold (mainly PC-based workstations for Creative Finishing in the M&E segment), costs associated with transferring our software to electronic media, physical media, packaging materials and shipping and handling costs. Cost of license and other revenue increased 9% during the three months ended April 30, 2013 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an increase in lower margin hardware sales and increase in consulting support costs. Cost of subscription revenue includes labor costs of providing product support to our maintenance and cloud subscription customers, including rent and occupancy, shipping and handling costs, professional services fees costs related to operating our network infrastructure, including depreciation expense and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries and related expenses of network operations. Cost of subscription revenue increased 28% during the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, due to higher cloud services-related expenses. Cost of revenue, at least over the near term, is affected by the volume and mix of product sales, mix of physical versus electronic fulfillment, fluctuations in consulting costs, amortization of purchased technology, new customer support offerings, royalty rates for licensed technology embedded in our products and employee stock-based compensation expense. We expect cost of revenue to slightly increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenue during the second quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2013 , primarily due to an increase in costs associated with meeting our major business initiatives. Marketing and Sales Three Months Ended Decrease compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2013 $ % April 30, 2012 Marketing and sales $ 208.8 $ (14.4 ) (6 )% $ 223.2 As a percentage of net revenue 37 % 38 % Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our marketing and sales employees, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, and the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and expositions, and various sales and promotional programs. Marketing and sales expenses also include labor costs of sales and order processing, sales and dealer commissions, rent and occupancy, and the cost of supplies and equipment. Marketing and sales expenses decreased 6% for the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to a decrease in marketing related costs, professional fees and employee-related costs related to bonus and salaries. For the second quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2013 , we expect marketing and sales expense to remain relatively consistent in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenue. Research and Development Three Months Ended Decrease compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2013 $ % April 30, 2012 Research and development $ 150.8 $ (1.9 ) (1 )% $ 152.7 As a percentage of net revenue 26 % 26 % Research and development expenses, which are expensed as incurred, consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for research and development employees, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, rent and occupancy, and professional services such as fees paid to software development firms and independent contractors. 33 Research and development expenses decreased 1% during the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a decrease in employee-related costs related to bonuses and fringe benefits partially offset by increase in salaries. For the second quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2013 , we expect research and development expense to remain relatively consistent in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenue. General and Administrative Three Months Ended Increase compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2013 $ % April 30, 2012 General and administrative $ 61.5 $ 1.6 3 % $ 59.9 As a percentage of net revenue 11 % 10 % General and administrative expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our finance, human resources and legal employees, as well as professional fees for legal and accounting services, amortization of acquisition related customer relationships and trade names, gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges, expense of travel, entertainment and training, expense of communication and the cost of supplies and equipment. General and administrative expenses increased 3% during the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an increase in amortization of acquisition related customer relationships and trade names and employee-related costs related to salaries and stock-based compensation expense partially offset by a decrease in bonuses. For the second quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2013 , we expect general and administrative expenses to remain relatively consistent in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenue. Restructuring Charges, Net Three Months Ended Increase compared to prior fiscal year Three Months Ended (in millions) April 30, 2013 $ % April 30, 2012 Restructuring charges, net $ 0.4 $ 0.4 * $ As a percentage of net revenue * * _______________ * Percentage is not meaningful During the third quarter of fiscal 2013, we initiated a restructuring plan that included a reduction in force and the consolidation of certain leased facilities. During the three months ended April 30, 2013 , we recorded an incremental restructuring charge of $0.4 million . See Note 13 , Restructuring , in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Interest and Other (Expense) Income, Net The following table sets forth the components of interest and other (expense) income, net: Three Months Ended April 30, (in millions) 2013 2012 Interest and investment (expense) income, net $ (3.1 ) $ 2.4 (Loss) gain on foreign currency (4.4 ) (Loss) gain on strategic investments (1.1 ) 1.1 Other income (0.2 ) Interest and other (expense) income, net $ (8.8 ) $ 3.5 34 Interest and other (expense) income, net , decreased $ 12.3 million during the three months ended April 30, 2013 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a reduction in our net interest and investment income and losses on foreign currency. The decrease in interest and investment income, net, during the three months ended April 30, 2013 , as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year is primarily due to interest expense resulting from the issuance of $ 400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.95% senior notes due December 15, 2017 and $ 350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.6% senior notes due December 15, 2022 , and a decrease in the fair value of our trading securities that are marked-to-market each period. Interest and investment income fluctuates based on average cash, marketable securities and debt balances, average maturities and interest rates. Gains and losses on foreign currency are primarily due to the impact of re-measuring foreign currency transactions and net monetary assets into the functional currency of the corresponding entity. The amount of the gain or loss on foreign currency is driven by the volume of foreign currency transactions and the foreign currency exchange rates for the period. Provision for Income Taxes We account for income taxes and the related accounts under the liability method. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities, using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the basis differences reverse. Our effective tax rate was 23% during the three months ended April 30, 2013 compared to 19% during the three months ended April 30, 2012 . Our effective tax rate increased 4% during the three months ended April 30, 2013 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to discrete tax benefits from closure of the statute of limitations during the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and lower tax benefits related to stock based compensation in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, partially offset by tax benefits from the reinstated federal research credit. Excluding the impact of these discrete tax items, the effective tax rate for the three months ended April 30, 2013 was 24% and was lower than the Federal statutory tax rate of 35% primarily due to foreign income taxed at lower rates partially offset by the impact of non-deductible stock based compensation expense. Our future effective tax rate may be materially impacted by the amount of benefits and charges from tax amounts associated with our foreign earnings that are taxed at rates different from the federal statutory rate, research credits, state income taxes, the tax impact of stock-based compensation, accounting for uncertain tax positions, business combinations and investments, U.S. Manufacturers deduction, closure of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits, changes in valuation allowances and changes in tax laws including possible U.S. tax law changes that, if enacted, could significantly impact how U.S. multinational companies are taxed on foreign subsidiary earnings. A significant amount of our earnings is generated by our Europe and Asia Pacific subsidiaries. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates or we repatriate certain foreign earnings on which U.S. taxes have not previously been provided. At April 30, 2013 , we had net deferred tax assets of $190.3 million . We believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions to realize these assets. 35 Other Financial Information In addition to our results determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) discussed above, we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance. For the three months ended April 30, 2013 , and 2012 , our gross profit, gross margin, income from operations, operating margin, net income and diluted earnings per share on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis were as follows (in millions except for gross margin, operating margin and per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2013 2012 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 502.9 $ 529.8 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 515.2 $ 540.9 Gross margin 88 % 90 % Non-GAAP gross margin 90 % 92 % Income from operations $ 81.4 $ 94.0 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 136.9 $ 145.0 Operating margin 14 % 16 % Non-GAAP operating margin 24 % 25 % Net income $ 55.6 $ 78.9 Non-GAAP net income (1) $ 96.3 $ 109.1 Diluted earnings per share (2) $ 0.24 $ 0.34 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (1)(2) $ 0.42 $ 0.47 _______________ (1) Effective in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, Autodesk began excluding gains and losses on strategic investments for purposes of its non-GAAP financial measures. Prior period non-GAAP interest and other income (expense), net, net income and earnings per share amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation. (2) Earnings per share were computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the earnings per share amount for the quarters may not equal the total for the year. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, we use non-GAAP measures to supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis. These non-GAAP measures do not include certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. We use non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe those measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our earning potential. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to our and our competitors historical results and operating guidance. We also use some of these measures for purposes of determining company-wide incentive compensation. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures included above are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which charges are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our public disclosures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 36 Reconciliation of GAAP Financial Measures to Non-GAAP Financial Measures (In millions except for gross margin, operating margin and per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2013 2012 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 502.9 $ 529.8 Stock-based compensation expense 1.5 1.3 Amortization of purchased intangibles 10.8 9.8 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 515.2 $ 540.9 Gross margin 88 % 90 % Stock-based compensation expense % % Amortization of purchased intangibles 2 % 2 % Non-GAAP gross margin 90 % 92 % Income from operations $ 81.4 $ 94.0 Stock-based compensation expense 33.5 33.4 Amortization of purchased intangibles 21.6 17.6 Restructuring charges 0.4 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 136.9 $ 145.0 Operating margin 14 % 16 % Stock-based compensation expense 6 % 6 % Amortization of purchased intangibles 4 % 3 % Restructuring charges % % Non-GAAP operating margin 24 % 25 % Net income $ 55.6 $ 78.9 Stock-based compensation expense 33.5 33.4 Amortization of purchased intangibles 21.6 17.6 Restructuring charges 0.4 Loss (gain) on strategic investments (1) 1.1 (1.1 ) Discrete tax provision items (0.5 ) (6.3 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (15.4 ) (13.4 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 96.3 $ 109.1 Diluted net income per share (2) $ 0.24 $ 0.34 Stock-based compensation expense 0.15 0.14 Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.10 0.07 Restructuring charges Loss (gain) on strategic investments (1) Discrete tax provision items (0.03 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (0.07 ) (0.05 ) Non-GAAP diluted net income per share (2) $ 0.42 $ 0.47 _______________ (1) Effective in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, Autodesk began excluding gains and losses on strategic investments for purposes of its non-GAAP financial measures. Prior period non-GAAP interest and other income (expense), net, net income and earnings per share amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation. (2) Earnings per share were computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the earnings per share amount for the quarters may not equal the total for the year. 37 Our non-GAAP financial measures as set forth in the table above exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expenses . We exclude stock-based compensation expenses from non-GAAP measures primarily because management finds it useful to exclude these charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses and to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Amortization of purchased intangibles . We incur amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets primarily in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. The amortization of purchased intangibles varies depending on the level of acquisition activity and management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses and to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Restructuring charges. These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancellation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing financial results in the current period. Loss (gain) on strategic investments. Autodesk excludes gains and losses related to our strategic investments from its non-GAAP measures primarily because management finds it useful to exclude these variable gains and losses on these investments in assessing our financial results. Included in these amounts are non-cash unrealized gains and losses on the derivative components, realized gains and losses on the sale or losses on the impairment of these investments. Discrete tax provision items . We exclude the GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from the non-GAAP measure of income, and include a non-GAAP tax provision based upon the projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Discrete tax items include income tax expenses or benefits that do not relate to ordinary income from continuing operations in the current fiscal year, unusual or infrequently occurring items, or the tax impact of certain stock-based compensation. Examples of discrete tax items include, but are not limited to, certain changes in judgment and changes in estimates of tax matters related to prior fiscal years, certain costs related to business combinations, certain changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets or changes in tax law. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to ongoing operations. Income tax effects of non-GAAP adjustments . The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses, primarily due to stock-based compensation and purchased intangibles for GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of cash is from the sale of licenses to our products. Our primary use of cash is payment of our operating costs which consist primarily of employee-related expenses, such as compensation and benefits, as well as general operating expenses for marketing, facilities and overhead costs. In addition to operating expenses, we also use cash to invest in our growth initiatives, which include acquisitions of products, technology and businesses and to fund our stock repurchase program. See further discussion of these items below. At April 30, 2013 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $2,479.9 million and net accounts receivable of $285.8 million . In fiscal 2013, we issued $ 400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.95% senior notes due December 15, 2017 and $ 350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.6% senior notes due December 15, 2022 , (collectively, the "Senior Notes"). In addition, we have a line of credit facility that permits unsecured short-term borrowings of up to $ 400.0 million . We amended and restated the credit facility in May 2013. The amended and restated credit facility expires in May 2018. See Note 19 , " Subsequent Events ," for additional information about our credit facility. Borrowings under the credit facility and the net proceeds from the offering of the Senior Notes are available for general corporate purposes. Our cash and cash equivalents are held by diversified financial institutions globally. Our primary commercial banking relationship is with Citibank and its global affiliates (Citibank). In addition, Citibank is one of the lead lenders and agent in the syndicate of our $400.0 million line of credit. The increase in our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities from $ 2,365.4 million at January 31, 2013 to $2,479.9 million at April 30, 2013 is principally due to cash generated by operating activities, and proceeds from the issuance of common stock following stock option exercises and employee stock plan purchases. These increases to cash, cash 38 equivalents and marketable securities are partially offset by cash used for repurchases of common stock, acquisitions including business combination and technology purchases, capital expenditures, and other investing activities. We anticipate the cash proceeds from issuance of common stock will vary based on our stock price, stock option exercise activity and the volume of employee purchases under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESP Plan"). The primary source for net cash provided by operating activities of $224.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2013 was net income of $55.6 million increased by the cash effect of expenses totaling $66.6 million associated with depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation. In addition, net cash flow provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities was $103.8 million . The primary source of working capital was a decrease in accounts receivable and increase in income tax payable. Our days sales outstanding in trade receivables was 46 at April 30, 2013 compared to 74 days at January 31, 2013 . The days sales outstanding decrease relates primarily to seasonality in our subscription contract renewals; subscription billings are generally higher in the fourth quarter in comparison to the r est of our fiscal year. The primary working capital uses of cash were for payments for the reduction of the accrued compen sation expense primarily related to a decrease in the employee bonus accrual. At April 30, 2013 , our short-term investment portfolio had an estimated fair value of $432.1 million and a cost basis of $426.9 million . The portfolio fair value consisted of $210.6 million invested in commercial paper and corporate securities, $73.9 million invested in U.S. government agency securities, $71.2 million invested in U.S. treasury securities, $38.4 million invested in mutual funds, $21.8 million invested in municipal securities, $14.9 million invested in certificates of deposit and time deposits with remaining maturities at the date of purchase greater than 90 days and less than one year $ 1.0 million of sovereign debt and $0.3 million invested in other short-term securities. At April 30, 2013 , $38.4 million of trading securities were invested in a defined set of mutual funds as directed by the participants in our Deferred Compensation Plan (see Note 10 , Deferred Compensation , in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). Long-term cash requirements for items other than normal operating expenses are anticipated for the following: the acquisition of businesses, software products, or technologies complementary to our business; common stock repurchases; and capital expenditures, including the purchase and implementation of internal-use software applications. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and may, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. Our decision to acquire businesses or technology is dependent on our business needs, the availability of suitable sellers and technology, and our own financial condition. As of April 30, 2013 , there have been no material changes in our contractual obligations or commercial commitments compared to those we disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013 . Our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances are concentrated in a few locations around the world, with substantial amounts held outside of the U.S. Certain amounts held outside the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. (subject to local law restrictions), but under current U.S. tax law, could be subject to U.S. income taxes less applicable foreign tax credits. We have provided for the U.S. income tax liability on foreign earnings, except for foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside the U.S. Our intent is that amounts related to foreign earnings permanently reinvested outside the U.S. will remain outside the U.S. and we will meet our U.S. liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. We regularly review our capital structure and consider a variety of potential financing alternatives and planning strategies to ensure we have the proper liquidity available in the locations in which it is needed. Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may decline in fiscal 2014 in the event of a weakening of the global economy or changes in our planned cash outlay. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors . However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our borrowing capacity under the existing credit facility at June 5, 2013 is $400.0 million of which we have no amounts outstanding. This credit facility is available for working capital and general corporate purposes. In addition, as of June 5, 2013 , we have $ 750.0 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes outstanding. 39 Our revenue, earnings, cash flows, receivables and payables are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our risk management strategy utilizes foreign currency contracts to manage our exposure to foreign currency volatility that exists as part of our ongoing business operations. We utilize cash flow hedge contracts to reduce the exchange rate impact on a portion of the net revenue or operating expense of certain anticipated transactions. In addition, we use balance sheet hedge contracts to reduce the exchange rate risk associated primarily with foreign currency denominated receivables and payables. As of April 30, 2013 , we had open cash flow and balance sheet hedge contracts with future settlements within one to twelve months. Contracts were primarily denominated in euros, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, British pounds, Canadian dollars, and Australian dollars. We do not enter into any foreign exchange derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The notional amount of our option and forward contracts was $399.0 million and $438.2 million at April 30, 2013 and January 31, 2013 , respectively. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Autodesk's stock repurchase program is largely to help offset the dilution from the issuance of stock under our employee stock plans and for such other purposes as may be in the interests of Autodesk and its stockholders, and has the effect of returning excess cash generated from our business to stockholders. The number of shares acquired and the timing of the purchases are based on several factors, including general market conditions, the volume of employee stock option exercises, stock issuance, the trading price of our common stock, cash on hand and available in the U.S., and company defined trading windows. During the three months ended April 30, 2013 , we repurchased 3.2 million of our common stock. At April 30, 2013 , 29.0 million shares remained available for repurchase under the repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors. This program does not have a fixed expiration date. See Note 15 , Common Stock Repurchase Program , in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The following table provides information about the repurchase of common stock in open-market transactions during the quarter ended April 30, 2013 : (Shares in thousands) Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (2) February 1 - February 28 $ 32,244.4 March 1 - March 30 2,766.7 40.28 2,766.7 29,477.7 April 1 - April 30 450.0 39.57 450.0 29,027.7 Total 3,216.7 $ 40.18 3,216.7 ________________ (1) Represents shares purchased in open-market transactions under the stock repurchase plans approved by the Board of Directors. (2) These amounts correspond to the plans approved by the Board of Directors in June 2012 and December 2010 that authorized the repurchase of 30.0 million and 20.0 million shares, respectively. These plans do not have a fixed expiration date. At April 30, 2013, there are no further shares available for repurchase under the plan approved by the Board of Directors in December 2010. There were no sales of unregistered securities during the three months ended April 30, 2013 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of April 30, 2013 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Glossary of terms BIM (Building Information Modeling) BIM describes a model-based technology linked with a database of project information, and is the process of generating and managing information throughout the life cycle of a building. BIM is used as a digital representation of the building process to facilitate exchange and interoperability of information in digital formats. Constant currency growth rates We attempt to represent the changes in the underlying business operations by eliminating fluctuations caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as eliminating hedge gains or losses recorded within the current and comparative period. Our constant currency methodology removes all hedging gains and losses from the calculation. 40 Digital prototyping Digital prototyping allows designers, architects and engineers to analyze, simulate and visualize a design using a digital or virtual model rather than a physical model. Flagship Autodesk flagship products are our core design products. Flagship includes the following products: 3ds Max, AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT, AutoCAD vertical products (such as AutoCAD Architecture and AutoCAD Mechanical), Civil 3D, Maya, Plant 3D, Inventor products (standalone) and Revit products (standalone). License and Other revenue License and other revenue consists of two components: all forms of product license revenue and other revenue. Product license revenue includes: software license revenue from the sale of new seat licenses and upgrades. Other revenue consists of revenue from Creative Finishing, consulting and training services. Maintenance Our maintenance program provides our commercial and educational customers with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance program, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, downloadable training courses and online support. We recognize maintenance revenue over the term of the agreements, generally between one and three years. New and Adjacent Autodesk new and adjacent products include Autodesk's new product offerings as well as products that are not included in flagship or suites. New and adjacent includes the following services and products: Autodesk Alias Design products, Autodesk Consulting, Autodesk Buzzsaw, Autodesk Constructware, Autodesk consumer products, Autodesk Creative Finishing products, Autodesk Moldflow products, Autodesk Navisworks, Autodesk Simulation, Autodesk Vault products and all other products. Suites Autodesk design suites are a combination of products that target a specific user objective (product design, building design, etc.) and support a set of workflows for that objective. Our new design and creation suites include: Autodesk Design Suite, Autodesk Building Design Suite, Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite, Autodesk Factory Design Suite, Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suite, Autodesk Plant Design Suite, and Autodesk Product Design Suite. Our previously established suites include: Autodesk Inventor family suites, Autodesk Revit family suites, and education solutions suites. Subscription Autodesk subscription revenue consists of two components: maintenance revenue for our software products and revenue for our cloud service offerings, including Autodesk 360.