ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion in our MD&A contains trend analyses and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies, anticipated future operating results and operating expenses, the impact of our restructuring activities, the impact of acquisitions and investment activities, the effect of fluctuations in exchange rates and our hedging strategy on our financial results, the impact of economic volatility and geopolitical activities in certain countries, particularly emerging economy countries, and the resulting effect on our financial results, and our ability to successfully expand adoption of our horizontal design products, our vertical design products and model-based design products. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product acceptance, continuation of our stock repurchase program, short-term and long-term cash requirements, and revenues from upgrades and our subscription program, as well as, statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as may, believe, could, anticipate, would, might, plan, expect, and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Form 10-Q and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of the factors set forth below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made. Strategy Our goal is to be the worlds leading design, engineering, and entertainment software and services company for the architecture, engineering and construction, manufacturing, and digital media and entertainment markets. Worldwide business trends such as globalization, sustainability, investment in infrastructure, and the increasing desire to keep data digital, are creating pressure on our customers to improve innovation while enhancing productivity. We enable customer innovation by delivering the broadest portfolio of products and services for the digital design, visualization, and simulation of real-world project performance. Our products help our customers increase efficiency and productivity while solving business challenges. Our customers are seeking differentiation through design, and we believe our products provide them with a competitive advantage to succeed in this environment. To achieve our goal, we believe that we can capitalize on our competitive advantages, including our ability to make technology available to mainstream markets. By innovating in existing technology categories, we bring powerful design products to volume markets. Our products are designed to be easy to learn and use and to provide customers low cost of deployment, low total cost of ownership and rapid return on their investment. In addition, our software architecture allows for extensibility and integration with other products. We believe that our technological leadership, brand recognition, breadth of product line and large installed base position us well for long-term growth. We believe that our large global network of distributors and resellers, third-party developers, customers and students is also a competitive advantage. These relationships provide us with a broad reach into volume markets. Our distributor and reseller network is extensive and provides our customers with global resources for the purchase and support of our products as well as resources for effective and cost-efficient training services. We believe that our network of channel partners positions us well for longer-term growth. In addition, we have a significant number of registered third-party developers that create products that operate with our software products, further extending our reach into volume markets. Users trained on our products are broadly available from both educational institutions and the existing workforce providing us with a student community of next-generation professional users and reducing the cost of training for our customers. To train the next generation of users, we offer education programs, including classroom support, standardized curricula, instructor development, and specially priced software-purchasing options. Our strategy to grow over the long term derives from these core strengths. Our growth strategy includes continually increasing the business value of our design tools in a number of ways, and improving the performance and functionality of our existing products with each new release. Our most recent release began in March 2010. Beyond our non-industry or discipline specific horizontal design products, AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT, we develop products addressing industry or discipline-specific needs through our vertical design and model-based design product offerings. We continually strive to improve our product functionality and specialization by industry while increasing product interoperability and usability. We also strive to create innovative ways of delivering better user experiences to our customers. We believe this ultimately increases our customers satisfaction, the usefulness of our products to our customers and drives customer loyalty. We believe that expanding our horizontal design product customers portfolios to include our vertical design products and model-based design products presents a meaningful growth opportunity and is an important part of our overall strategy. For example, 24 Table of Contents for the three months ended April 30, 2010, revenue from model-based design products increased 13%, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, and represented 29% as a percentage of total revenue during each of the three month periods ended April 30, 2010 and 2009. We believe that the adoption of vertical design products and model-based design products by our customers in all industries will increase their productivity, as well as result in richer design data. This migration also poses various risks to us. In particular, if we do not successfully expand our horizontal design customer base to our vertical design products and model-based design products as expected, then we would not realize the growth we expect and our business would be adversely affected. Expanding our geographic coverage is another key element of our growth strategy. We believe that emerging economies continue to present long-term growth opportunities for us. Revenue from emerging economies increased 15% during the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue from emerging economies represented 14% of net revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2010 and 2009. While we believe there are long-term growth opportunities in emerging economies, conducting business in these countries presents significant challenges, including economic volatility, geopolitical risk, intellectual property protection and software piracy. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail integration challenges and may, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will selectively acquire products, technology and businesses as compelling opportunities that promote our strategy become available, but the pace at which we make such investments will vary depending upon our business needs, the availability of suitable sellers and technology, and our own financial condition. Global demand for our products improved during the quarter ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the quarter ended April 30, 2009. We began to see growth in the demand environment in many countries and markets, and global financial market growth, which has improved our business. We saw demand for our products and services increase in Asia Pacific (APAC) and Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and in many of the industries we serve during the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. This has positively impacted our financial results. Our operating margins are very sensitive to changes in revenue, given the relatively fixed nature of most of our expenses, which consist primarily of employee-related expenditures, facilities costs, and depreciation and amortization expense. We took actions in fiscal 2010, and continue to take actions in fiscal 2011, to help improve our financial condition in fiscal 2011 and beyond. We believe that by continuing to execute our strategy we can achieve our goal of being the worlds leading design and engineering software and services company for the architecture, engineering, and construction, manufacturing, geospatial mapping, and digital media and entertainment markets. Our strategy depends upon a number of assumptions, including that we will be able to continue making our technology available to mainstream markets; to leverage our large global network of distributors and resellers, third-party developers, customers, and students; to improve the performance and functionality of our products; and to adequately protect our intellectual property. If the outcome of any of these assumptions differs from our expectations, we may not be able to implement our strategy, which could potentially adversely affect our business. For further discussion regarding these and related risks see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on amounts reported in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We regularly reevaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. We have described our significant accounting policies in Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010 (the 2010 Form 10-K). In addition, we highlighted those policies that involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity with further discussion of these judgmental areas in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2010 Form 10-K. We believe these policies are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Please refer to Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2010 Form 10-K filed on March 19, 2010. 25 Table of Contents Updates on the relevant periodic financial disclosures related to these policies are provided below. Goodwill . Goodwill consists of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations. As of April 30, 2010, a hypothetical 10% decrease in the fair value of our reporting units would not have an impact on the carrying value of goodwill nor result in additional impairment of goodwill. Product Returns Reserves. We permit our distributors and resellers to return products up to a percentage of prior quarter purchases. The product returns reserve is based on historical experience of actual product returns, estimated channel inventory levels, the timing of new product introductions and promotions, channel sell-in for applicable markets and other factors. Our product returns reserves were $10.9 million at April 30, 2010 and $11.8 million at January 31, 2010. Product returns as a percentage of applicable revenue were 5.5% for the three months ended April 30, 2010 and 2009. During the three months ended April 30, 2010 and 2009, we recorded additions to our product returns reserve of $11.0 million and $12.4 million, respectively, which reduced our revenue. Income Taxes . At April 30, 2010, we had $156.2 million of net deferred tax assets, primarily a result of tax credits, net operating losses, and timing differences for reserves, accrued liabilities, stock options, purchased technologies and capitalized software, partially offset by the establishment of U.S. deferred tax liabilities on unremitted earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries and acquired intangibles and valuation allowances against California and Canadian deferred tax assets. We perform a quarterly assessment of the recoverability of these net deferred tax assets and believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions to realize the net deferred tax assets. Our judgments regarding future profitability may change due to future market conditions and other factors. Any change in future profitability may require material adjustments to these net deferred tax assets, resulting in a reduction in net income in the period when such determination is made. Overview of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 As a % of Net Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2009 As a % of Net Revenue Net Revenue $ 474.6 100 % $ 425.8 100 % Cost of revenue 51.3 11 % 52.3 12 % Gross Profit 423.3 89 % 373.5 88 % Operating expenses 372.5 78 % 392.9 93 % Income (loss) from operations $ 50.8 11 % $ (19.4 ) -5 % Our results for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 reflect recent improvements in the global demand environment, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year when the economic downturn had decreased demand for our products and customers reduced their work forces. While global macroeconomic indicators remain mixed, there were some signs of growth during the three months ended April 30, 2010. There have been significant job losses around the world over the past two years, and unemployment remains high in several important geographies, including the U.S. Additionally, there are a number of mixed data points as to whether credit has become more readily available, and how this continues to impact our customers and partners. Our business shows some signs of growth as evidenced by our year over year increases in revenue, gross profit and income from operations. Contributing to the year over year increases in revenue were increases in new seat revenue, revenue for most of our major products, the majority of our reportable segments, and the EMEA and APAC geographies during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010. In addition, we continued to make progress in controlling our operating costs, which led to year over year improvements in profitability. Despite the improvements in these areas, it is not clear whether these increases represent sustainable trends, or are indications of broad-based stabilization of our business. Our level of confidence in fiscal 2011 revenue forecasts remains limited primarily due to the general instability of the European economy, and consequently we decided not to provide revenue guidance beyond the second quarter of fiscal 2011. During the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, net revenue increased $48.8 million, gross profit increased $49.8 million and income from operations increased $70.2 million. The $70.2 million increase in income from operations during the quarter ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, was due to the $48.8 million increase in our net revenue and the $21.4 decrease in total spend, defined as cost of revenue plus operating expenses. The majority of our costs are relatively fixed in the short term as they relate primarily to our workforce. In an attempt to adjust our cost structure, we initiated restructuring plans that resulted in us recording restructuring charges of $7.1 million and $16.5 million during the three months ended April 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, during the three months ended April 30, 2009 we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $21.0 million associated with our M&E segment. The favorable impacts of the 26 Table of Contents increase in revenue and decrease in impairment and restructuring charges during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared the same period of the prior fiscal year, were partially offset by the increase in operating costs resulting from the return of some previously suppressed costs and costs associated with higher revenue. Our spending decisions are based in part on our expectations for future revenue and are not directly variable with fluctuations in revenue. Accordingly, our inability to immediately adjust our operating costs for any revenue shortfall below expectations could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on our profitability. We constantly monitor and adjust our cost structure to align with our recent and anticipated financial results. In addition to restructuring activities, other actions that we have taken to adjust our cost structure include reductions in discretionary spending and contingent labor costs. In taking these actions, we may incur additional costs that could negatively impact our net income and cash flows from operating activities. Net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2010 increased 11% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year due to a 15% increase in license and other revenue and a 7% increase in maintenance revenue. We experienced increases in net revenue in Asia Pacific and EMEA during the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. We generate a significant amount of our revenue in the U.S., Japan, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Italy, Canada, South Korea, Australia and China. Included in the overall increase in revenue were impacts associated with foreign currency. Had applicable exchange rates from the three months ended April 30, 2009 been in effect through April 30, 2010, and had we excluded foreign exchange hedge gains and losses from the first quarter of fiscal 2011, (on a constant currency basis), net revenue would have increased 7% compared to the first quarter of the prior fiscal year. Operating expenses during the three months ended April 30, 2010 decreased 5% compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year as reported and 2% on a constant currency basis. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may have a significant effect on net revenue, operating expenses and income from operations in future periods. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate effect on a portion of the net revenue of certain anticipated transactions, but cannot completely mitigate the impact of fluctuation of such foreign currency against the U.S. dollar. We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (collectively, Tech Data). Tech Data accounted for 17% and 14% of our consolidated net revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our total spend decreased by $21.4 million, or 5%, during the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. While the magnitude of this savings is modest, we also continued to invest in areas important to the future success of Autodesk. Our total spend of $423.8 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 included $24.3 million of stock-based compensation expenses, $7.7 million attributable to amortization of developed technology for acquisitions subsequent to December 2005, $7.1 million for restructuring charges and $6.2 million attributable to amortization of customer relationships and trade names for acquisitions subsequent to December 2005. Our total operating margin increased from a loss of $19.4 million, or negative 5%, during the three months ended April 30, 2009, to income of $50.8 million, or 11%, during the three months ended April 30, 2010. The increase in our operating margin during the three months ended April 30, 2010 was primarily due net revenue increasing more rapidly than the increase in our costs due to our cost saving initiatives during fiscal 2010 and 2011. Also contributing to the increase in total operating margin were the decreases in goodwill impairment and restructuring charges during the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Our operating margin increased $21.0 million due to the decrease in goodwill impairment charges and $9.4 million for the decrease in restructuring charges. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in expenses due to the return of some previously suppressed costs and costs associated with higher revenue. We expect our operating margin percentage to increase during the second quarter of fiscal 2011, as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2010, due to higher net revenue and lower restructuring charges. However, there can be no assurance that our cost structure will not increase in the future or that we will be able to align our cost structure with our actual financial results. In taking these actions, we may incur additional costs which could negatively impact our net income and cash flows from operating activities. Our primary goals for the remainder of fiscal 2011 are to continue delivering our market-leading products and solutions to our customers, stimulate revenue growth, manage operating margins and invest in product functionality and new product lines while minimizing the impact of these investments on gross profit, operating margins, operating cash flow and our worldwide operations. At April 30, 2010, we had $1,239.3 million in cash and marketable securities. We completed the quarter ended April 30, 2010 with a higher deferred revenue balance and a lower accounts receivable balance as compared to the quarter ended January 31, 2010. Our deferred revenue balance at April 30, 2010 included $491.7 million of customer maintenance contracts, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the life of the contracts, which is predominantly one year. We repurchased 2.0 million shares of our common stock for $58.8 million during the three months ended April 30, 2010. Comparatively, we had no repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended April 30, 2009. 27 Table of Contents Results of Operations Net Revenue (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 Increase (Decrease) Compared to Prior Period Three Months Ended April 30, 2009 $ % Net Revenue: License and other $ 279.8 $ 36.2 15 % $ 243.6 Maintenance 194.8 12.6 7 % 182.2 $ 474.6 $ 48.8 11 % $ 425.8 Net Revenue by Geographic Area: Americas $ 161.2 $ (2.3 ) -1 % $ 163.5 Europe, Middle East and Africa 198.6 31.5 19 % 167.1 Asia Pacific 114.8 19.6 21 % 95.2 $ 474.6 $ 48.8 11 % $ 425.8 Net Revenue by Operating Segment: Platform Solutions and Emerging Business $ 183.8 $ 28.1 18 % $ 155.7 Architecture, Engineering and Construction 136.8 8.5 7 % 128.3 Manufacturing 107.9 14.1 15 % 93.8 Media and Entertainment 46.1 (1.8 ) -4 % 47.9 Other (0.1 ) -100 % 0.1 $ 474.6 $ 48.8 11 % $ 425.8 License and Other Revenue License and other revenue is comprised of two components: all forms of product license revenue and other revenue. Product license revenue includes revenue from the sale of new seat licenses, upgrades and crossgrades. Other revenue consists of revenue from Creative Finishing (formerly known as Advanced Solutions), consulting and training services, and Autodesk Collaborative Solution hosting. Total license and other revenue increased 15% during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily due to the 24% increase in commercial new seat revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2010. During the three months ended April 30, 2010, 28 percentage points of the 24% increase were due to increases in the number of seats sold, partially offset by 4 percentage points due to lower average net revenue per seat. As a percentage of total net revenue, license and other revenue was 59% and 57% for the three months ended April 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Commercial new seat revenue, as a percentage of license and other revenue, was 63% and 58% for the three months ended April 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Also contributing to the increase in license and other revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was the 18% increase in upgrade revenue, which includes crossgrade revenue. The increase in upgrade revenue was driven primarily by a one-time increase in upgrades due to a promotion in advance of the March 2010 increase in upgrade pricing. Over the long term, we expect revenue from upgrades to decrease as we continue to move customers onto our maintenance program. Revenue from the sales of our services, training and support, included in License and other revenue, represented less than 3% of net revenue for all periods presented. Maintenance Revenue Our maintenance revenue relates to a program known by our user community as the Subscription Program. Our maintenance program provides our commercial and educational customers with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance program, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, downloadable training courses and online support. We recognize maintenance revenue ratably over the maintenance contract periods. 28 Table of Contents Maintenance revenue increased 7% during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 7% increase in commercial maintenance revenue. The increase in commercial maintenance revenue is due to 11 percentage points from higher net revenue per maintenance seat, partially offset by 4 percentage points from lower program enrollment due to the economic downturn in fiscal 2010. Commercial maintenance revenue represented 98% of maintenance revenue during both the three months ended April 30, 2010 and 2009. As a percentage of total net revenue, maintenance revenue was 41% and 43% for the three months ended April 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Total program enrollment at April 30, 2010 consisted of about 2.4 million users. Changes in maintenance revenue lag changes in net billings for maintenance contracts because we recognize revenue from those contracts ratably over their lives, which is predominantly one year, but may be two or three year terms. We experienced a 26% increase in net maintenance billings in the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2009. This increase was due to more new seats sold, an increase in the renewal rates and the impact from the upgrade pricing promotion mentioned above. The increase in net maintenance billings during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 will have a positive impact on future maintenance revenue, however year-over-year decreases in net maintenance billings during the second and third quarters of fiscal 2010, and the impact of other factors such as the amount, timing and mix of contract terms of future net maintenance billings, could cause downward pressure on future maintenance revenue. Aggregate backlog at April 30, 2010 and January 31, 2010 was $565.3 million and $542.5 million, respectively, of which $543.7 million and $516.5 million, respectively, represented deferred revenue. Backlog related to current software license product orders that had not shipped at the end of the quarter decreased by $4.4 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 from $26.0 million at January 31, 2010 to $21.6 million at April 30, 2010. Deferred revenue consists primarily of deferred maintenance revenue. To a lesser extent, deferred revenue consists of deferred license and other revenue derived from collaborative project management services, consulting services and deferred license sales. Backlog from current software license product orders that we have not yet shipped consists of orders for currently available licensed software products from customers with approved credit status and may include orders with current ship dates and orders with ship dates beyond the current fiscal period. Net Revenue by Geographic Area Net revenue in the Americas region decreased by 1% during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. The decrease in net revenue in the Americas was primarily due to the decrease in revenue from direct sales to end users. Also contributing to the decrease in the Americas revenue was lower consulting revenue and revenue from our collaborative solutions products. Upgrade revenue and maintenance revenue in the Americas decreased 29% and 2%, respectively, during the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. These decreases were partially offset by a 40% increase in new seat revenue in the Americas. Net revenue in the EMEA geography increased 19% primarily due to a 15% increase in maintenance revenue, a 54% increase in revenue from upgrades and an 18% increase in new seat revenue. The increase in revenue in the EMEA geography during the three months ended April 30, 2010 was primarily due to economic expansion in most countries in the region, led by Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Switzerland. Also contributing to the increase was the increase in revenue from emerging economy countries within the EMEA geography. On a constant currency basis, revenue in the EMEA geography would have increased 10% for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Net revenue in the APAC geography increased by 21% during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 25% increase in new seat revenue, an 88% increase in upgrade revenue, and a 6% increase in maintenance revenue. The increase in net revenue in the APAC geography during the three months ended April 30, 2010 occurred in virtually all countries, led by Japan and followed by Australia, South Korea, India and Singapore. On a constant currency basis, revenue in the APAC geography would have increased 15% during the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Net revenue in emerging economies increased 15% during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2009, primarily due to revenue from the Russian Federation, Poland and India. This growth was a significant factor in our international sales growth during the three months ended April 30, 2010. Revenue from emerging economies represented 14% of net revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2010 and 2009. We believe that international revenue will continue to comprise a majority of our total net revenue. The economic conditions in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. International net revenue represented 73% and 69% of our net revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 29 Table of Contents Net Revenue by Operating Segment We have four reportable segments: Platform Solutions and Emerging Business (PSEB), Architecture, Engineering and Construction (AEC), Manufacturing (MFG) and Media and Entertainment (M&E). We have no material inter-segment revenue. Net revenue for PSEB increased 18% during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 22% increase in revenue from our AutoCAD products and an 18% increase in revenue from our AutoCAD LT products. Net revenue for AEC increased 7% during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 13% increase in revenue from our Revit products and a 14% increase in revenue from our ACAD Architecture products. Net revenue for MFG increased 15% during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 21% increase in revenue from our Autodesk Inventor products and a 12% increase in revenue from our Autodesk Mechanical products. Net revenue for M&E decreased 4% during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 25% decrease in revenue from Creative Finishing, formerly known as Advanced Systems. This decrease was partially offset by a 10% increase in revenue from our Animation product group. The increase in Animation revenue was primarily due to the new Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite of products and a 6% increase in revenue from Autodesk 3ds Max. Cost of Revenue (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 Increase (Decrease) Compared to Prior Period Three Months Ended April 30, 2009 $ % Cost of revenue: License and other $ 41.2 $ (2.9 ) -7 % $ 44.1 Maintenance 10.1 1.9 23 % 8.2 $ 51.3 $ (1.0 ) -2 % $ 52.3 As a percentage of net revenue 11 % 12 % Cost of license and other revenue includes labor costs of order fulfillment and costs of fulfilling service contracts, including stock-based compensation expense for these employees, direct material and overhead charges, amortization of purchased technology, professional services fees and royalties. Direct material and overhead charges include the cost of hardware sold (mainly PC-based workstations for Creative Finishing in the M&E segment), costs associated with transferring our software to electronic media, printing of user manuals and packaging materials and shipping and handling costs. During the quarter ended April 30, 2010, Autodesk reclassified certain costs of revenue, which primarily included reclassifying shipping and fulfillment expenses from Cost of license and other revenue to Cost of maintenance revenue, due to a change in the Companys cost allocation methodology. These expenses have been updated in the statement of operations, which included reclassifying $5.4 million from cost of license to cost of maintenance revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2009. See Note 1, Basis of Presentation, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Cost of license and other revenue decreased 7% during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to savings on shipping and handling costs. Cost of license and other revenue did not increase as rapidly as the associated net revenue because of decreased amortization of purchased intangibles related to prior fiscal year acquisitions, and the lack of costs associated with the completion of the implementation of our electronic fulfillment system, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Cost of maintenance revenue includes labor costs of providing product support to our maintenance customers, including stock-based compensation expense for these employees, rent and occupancy, shipping and handling costs and professional services fees. Cost of maintenance revenue increased 23% during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, due to an increase in maintenance support headcount partially offset by savings on freight and materials costs as fewer maintenance customers require physical shipments than in the past. 30 Table of Contents Cost of revenue, at least over the near term, is affected by the volume and mix of product sales, fluctuations in consulting costs, amortization of purchased technology, new customer support offerings, royalty rates for licensed technology embedded in our products, and employee stock-based compensation expense. Marketing and Sales (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 Increase Compared to Prior Period Three Months Ended April 30, 2009 $ % Marketing and sales $ 186.5 $ 2.6 1 % $ 183.9 As a percentage of net revenue 39 % 43 % Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation expense for our marketing and sales employees and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and expositions, and various sales and promotional programs. Marketing and sales expenses also include labor costs of sales and order processing, sales and dealer commissions, rent and occupancy, and the cost of supplies and equipment. Marketing and sales expenses increased 1% during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to higher employee-related costs, including commissions, bonuses and increased travel expenditures. These increases were partially offset by the decrease in marketing and sales headcount. We expect to balance our need to invest in the marketing and sales of our products with our need to reduce our operating expenses to align with our financial condition. Research and Development (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 Increase Compared to Prior Period Three Months Ended April 30, 2009 $ % Research and development $ 127.2 $ 5.7 5 % $ 121.5 As a percentage of net revenue 27 % 29 % Research and development expenses, which are expensed as incurred, consist primarily of salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation expense for research and development employees and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, rent and occupancy and professional services such as fees paid to software development firms and independent contractors. Research and development expenses increased 5% during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increases in employee-related costs, including bonuses and cost of benefits. These increases were partially offset by the decrease in research and development headcount. General and Administrative (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 Increase Compared to Prior Period Three Months Ended April 30, 2009 $ % General and administrative $ 51.7 $ 1.7 3 % $ 50.0 As a percentage of net revenue 11 % 12 % General and administrative expenses include salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation expense for our finance, human resources and legal employees, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, as well as professional fees for legal and accounting services, amortization of acquisition related customer relationships and trade names, expense of communication, and cost of supplies and equipment. General and administrative expenses increased 3% during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an increase in professional fees related to litigation costs. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in general and administrative headcount and a decrease in amortization of acquired intangible assets. 31 Table of Contents Restructuring Charges (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 (Decrease) Compared to Prior Period Three Months Ended April 30, 2009 $ % Restructuring charges $ 7.1 $ (9.4 ) -57 % $ 16.5 As a percentage of net revenue 1 % 4 % During the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we initiated a restructuring plan in order to reduce our operating costs. The restructuring plan is expected to result in a staff reduction of approximate 210 to 230 positions. In connection with this restructuring plan, Autodesk expects to record restructuring charges of approximately $10.0 million to $12.0 million during fiscal 2011. No leased facilities were consolidated as part of this restructuring (Fiscal 2011 Plan). In connection with this restructuring plan, during the quarter ended April 30, 2010 we reduced the number of employees by approximately 120 positions globally and recorded restructuring charges of $7.1 million, which related to one-time employee termination benefits. The remainder of the termination benefits will be substantially paid during fiscal 2011. If our revenue should decline or not grow as rapidly as planned, we may further reduce our operating expenses to align them with our financial condition, including the possibility of a further restructuring. In taking these actions, we may incur additional costs which could negatively impact our net income and cash flows from operating activities. See Note 8, Restructuring Reserve, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Impairment of Goodwill (in millions) Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 (Decrease) Compared to Prior Period Three Months Ended April 30, 2009 $ % Impairment of goodwill $ $ (21.0 ) -100 % $ 21.0 As a percentage of net revenue 0 % 5 % We recorded an impairment charge of $21.0 million affecting the first quarter of fiscal 2010 representing the entire goodwill balance of the M&E segment as of April 30, 2009. This goodwill balance related to the M&E segments fourth quarter fiscal 2009 acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Softimage. In response to the significant and sustained revenue declines we were experiencing in all segments and geographies during the first quarter of fiscal 2010, in May 2009 we revised the revenue and cash flow projections we had prepared during the second half of the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and concluded that an impairment of goodwill had occurred as of April 30, 2009. The revenue and cash flow projections were substantially impacted for all segments, however, the M&E segment was the only segment which had a then current fair value of its future discounted cash flows that fell below the carrying value of its assets. Should our revenue and cash flow projections decline significantly in the future, additional impairment charges may be recorded on goodwill. See Note 12, Goodwill, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Goodwill above for further discussion. As of April 30, 2010, a hypothetical 10% decrease in the fair value of our reporting units would not have an impact on the carrying value of goodwill nor result in additional impairment of goodwill. Interest and Other Income, Net The following table sets forth the components of interest and other income, net: Three Months Ended April 30, (in millions) 2010 2009 Interest and investment income, net $ 3.5 $ 1.9 Gain (loss) on foreign currency (7.2 ) (0.6 ) Other income (expense) 0.3 (1.3 ) $ (3.4 ) $ Interest and investment income, net fluctuates based on average cash and marketable securities balances, average maturities and interest rates. The increase in Interest and investment income, net, during the three months ended April 30, 2010, as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, is primarily due to gains on marketable securities. This increase was partially offset by lower interest rate yields on investments during the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. 32 Table of Contents The gain (loss) on foreign currency represents the impact of re-measuring foreign currency transactions into the functional currency of the corresponding entity. The amount of the gain (loss) is driven by the volume of foreign currency transactions and the foreign currency exchange rates for the period. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was 22% and negative 65% during the three months ended April 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our effective tax rate during the quarter ended April 30, 2010 differs from the effective tax rate during the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to a $20.9 million discrete non-cash tax charge as a result of a change in expected future tax rates and establishment of a valuation allowance against certain California deferred tax assets that was recorded during the first quarter of fiscal 2010 partially offset by a discrete tax benefit of $7.7 million associated with the impairment of goodwill that was recorded during the first quarter of fiscal 2010. During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the State of California enacted legislation significantly altering California tax law. As a result of the legislation, we expect that in fiscal years 2012 and beyond, income subject to tax in California will be less than under prior tax law and accordingly, deferred tax assets are less likely to be realized. Excluding the impact of discrete tax items, the effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was lower than the Federal statutory tax rate of 35% primarily due to foreign income taxed at lower rates partially offset by the impact of stock-based compensation expense. Our future effective tax rate may be materially impacted by the amount of benefits and charges from tax amounts associated with our foreign earnings that are taxed at rates different from the Federal statutory rate, research credits, state income taxes, the tax impact of stock-based compensation expense, accounting for uncertain tax positions, business combinations, the U.S. Manufacturers deduction, closure of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits, changes in valuation allowances and changes in tax law. As of April 30, 2010, we had $180.5 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest, of which approximately $167.4 million represents the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would impact the effective tax rate, if recognized. The remaining $13.1 million relates to items that would result in balance sheet reclassification with no impact to income tax expense. It is possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change in the next twelve months; however an estimate of the range of the possible change cannot be made at this time. At April 30, 2010, we had net deferred tax assets of $156.2 million. We believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions to realize these assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of cash is from the sale of licenses to our products. Our primary use of cash is payment of our operating costs which consist primarily of employee-related expenses, such as compensation and benefits, as well as general operating expenses for marketing, facilities and overhead costs. In addition to operating expenses, we also use cash to invest in our growth initiatives, which include acquisitions of products, technology and businesses and to fund our stock repurchase program. See further discussion of these items below. At April 30, 2010, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $1,239.3 million and net accounts receivable of $218.1 million. In addition, we have a U.S. line of credit facility that permits unsecured short-term borrowings of up to $250.0 million and a China line of credit that permits unsecured short-term borrowings of up to $5.0 million. These line of credit agreements contain customary covenants that could restrict the imposition of liens on our assets and restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make dispositions of assets if we fail to maintain their financial covenants. These credit facilities are available for working capital and other business needs. At April 30, 2010, we had no borrowings outstanding on the U.S. or China line of credit. The U.S. facility expires in August 2012, and the China facility has no contractual expiration. Our cash and cash equivalents are held by diversified financial institutions globally. Our primary commercial banking relationship is with Citibank and its global affiliates (Citibank). In addition, Citicorp USA, Inc., an affiliate of Citibank, is the lead lender and agent in the syndicate of our $250.0 million U.S. line of credit. The increase in our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities from $1,126.2 million at January 31, 2010 to $1,239.3 million at April 30, 2010 is principally the result of cash generated from operations and the proceeds from the issuance of common stock following stock option exercises. These increases to cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were partially offset by cash used for repurchases of our common stock and capital expenditures. Cash generated from operations was positively impacted by higher net revenue. 33 Table of Contents The primary source for net cash provided by operating activities of $139.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2010 was net income of $36.9 million increased by the effect of non-cash expenses totaling $58.1 million primarily associated with depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation. In addition, net cash flow provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities was $44.1 million. The primary working capital sources of cash were a decrease in accounts receivable, an increase in deferred revenue and an increase in accounts payable. Our days sales outstanding in trade receivables was 42 days at April 30, 2010 compared to 55 days at January 31, 2010. Days sales outstanding decreased due to a higher percentage of current quarter billings which became due and collectable before quarter end. Current quarter billings were high in the first half of the quarter due in part to a promotion that expired mid-quarter in advance of an increase in our upgrade pricing. These early billings became due and collectable before quarter end. The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to the year-over-year increase in net maintenance billings. The increase in accounts payable was due to an extension of payment terms with our largest vendors for purposes of improving our cash conversion cycle. The primary working capital uses of cash were for payment of the reduction of accrued expenses primarily related to our fiscal 2010 employee bonus accrual and fourth quarter fiscal 2010 commissions, and the purchase of shares under the ESP Plan. We expect net cash flows provided by operating activities to be higher in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 than in the same period of the prior fiscal year. However, the positive impact resulting from the promotion and the extension of payment terms with vendors is a one-time benefit that is not expected to recur in future quarters. At April 30, 2010, our short-term investment portfolio had an estimated fair value of $121.7 million and a cost basis of $121.9 million. The portfolio fair value consisted of $64.3 million invested in commercial paper and corporate securities, $29.5 million invested in mutual funds, $10.0 million invested in money market funds, $6.8 million invested in U.S. government agency securities, $6.0 million invested in municipal securities, $4.7 million invested in certificates of deposit and time deposits with original maturities greater than 90 days and less than one year, and $0.4 million invested in other short-term securities. At April 30, 2010, we had an investment in The Reserve International Liquidity Fund (the International Fund), a money market fund with an estimated fair value of $10.0 million. During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the International Fund ceased redemptions after net asset values of the funds decreased below $1 per share. This occurred as a result of the International Fund revaluing its holdings of debt securities issued by Lehman Brothers, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on September 15, 2008, and the resulting unusually high redemption requests on the International Fund. A third party court appointed supervisor is overseeing, but not managing, the accounting and payment administration of the non U.S.-based International Fund. Our investment in the International Fund is not currently liquid, and in the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so. However, based on currently available information, we expect to recover substantially all of our current holdings, net of reserves, from the International Fund within the next 12 months. Accordingly, the International Fund is classified in current Marketable Securities in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. At April 30, 2010, we owned two auction rate securities with an estimated fair value of $7.6 million. Our auction rate securities are variable rate debt instruments that have underlying securities with contractual maturities greater than ten years and interest rates that were structured to reset at auction every 28 days. The securities, which met our investment guidelines at the time the investments were made, have failed to settle in auctions since August 2007 and have earned a premium interest rate since that time. While we expect to recover substantially all of our current holdings, net of reserves, in the auction rate securities, we cannot predict when this will occur or the amount we will receive. Due to the lack of liquidity of these investments, they are included in non-current Marketable securities in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 4, Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our financial instruments. At April 30, 2010, $29.5 million of trading securities were invested in a defined set of mutual funds as directed by the participants in our Deferred Compensation Plan (see Note 9, Deferred Compensation, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). Long-term cash requirements for items other than normal operating expenses are anticipated for the following: stock repurchases; the acquisition of businesses, software products, or technologies complementary to our business; capital expenditures, including the purchase and implementation of internal-use software applications; and funding restructuring costs. As of April 30, 2010, there have been no material changes in our contractual obligations or commercial commitments compared to those we disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010. 34 Table of Contents Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may decline in fiscal 2011 in the event of a weakening of the economy or changes in our planned cash outlay. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next 12 months. Our existing U.S. credit facility is currently $250.0 million of which we have no amounts outstanding. This credit facility is available for working capital and other business needs. Our revenue, earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our risk management strategy utilizes derivative instruments to hedge a portion of our foreign currency transaction exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. As of April 30, 2010, we have open contracts to hedge expected cash flows for 1 to 12 months in the future. Contracts are primarily denominated in euros, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, British pounds and Canadian dollars. We do not enter into any derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The notional amount of our option and forward contracts was $225.6 million and $239.1 million at April 30, 2010 and January 31, 2010, respectively. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities In December 2007, our Board of Directors approved a plan which authorized the repurchase of up to 20.0 million shares. The purpose of the stock repurchase program is to help offset the dilution to net income per share caused by the issuance of stock under our employee stock plans and has the effect of returning excess cash generated from our business to stockholders. The number of shares acquired and the timing of the purchases are based on several factors, including general market conditions, the volume of employee stock option exercises and the issuance of shares through our ESP Plan, the pool of existing outstanding options and the grant of new options, the trading price of our common stock, cash on hand and available in the U.S., and company defined trading windows. During the three months ended April 30, 2010, we repurchased 2.0 million shares of our common stock. At April 30, 2010, 11.5 million shares remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization. See Note 15, Stock Repurchase Program, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The following table provides information about the repurchase of our common stock in open-market transactions during the quarter ended April 30, 2010: (Shares in thousands) Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (2) February 1 - February 28 $ 13,460 March 1 - March 31 1,783 29.41 1,783 11,677 April 1 - April 30 220 29.16 220 11,457 Total 2,003 $ 29.38 2,003 11,457 (1) Represents shares purchased in open-market transactions under the stock repurchase plan approved by the Board of Directors. (2) These amounts correspond to a plan approved by the Board of Directors in December 2007 that authorized the repurchase of 20.0 million shares. This plan does not have a fixed expiration date. There were no sales of unregistered securities during the three months ended April 30, 2010. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than operating leases, we do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements or have any variable-interest entities. As of April 30, 2010, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. 35 Table of Contents