Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K to fully understand factors that may affect the comparability of the information presented below. The financial data for the years ended January 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 are derived from, and are qualified by reference to, the audited consolidated financial statements that are included in this Form 10-K. The financial data for the years ended January 31, 2010 and 2009 are derived from audited, consolidated financial statements which are not included in this Form 10-K. Fiscal year ended January 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (In millions, except per share data) For the Fiscal Year: Net revenue $ 2,312.2 $ 2,215.6 $ 1,951.8 $ 1,713.7 $ 2,315.2 Income from operations 305.9 355.6 271.4 65.6 244.5 Provision for income taxes (62.6 ) (77.6 ) (60.0 ) (26.7 ) (68.9 ) Net income(1) 247.4 285.3 212.0 58.0 183.6 Cash flow from operations 559.1 573.5 540.8 246.8 593.9 Common Stock Data: Basic net income per share $ 1.09 $ 1.25 $ 0.93 $ 0.25 $ 0.81 Diluted net income per share 1.07 1.22 0.90 0.25 0.80 Dividends paid per share Income from operations includes the following items(2): Stock-based compensation expense $ 156.3 $ 108.8 $ 80.7 $ 93.6 $ 89.5 Amortization of purchased intangibles 81.8 70.3 55.9 58.4 46.6 Restructuring charges (benefits), net 43.9 (1.3 ) 10.8 48.2 40.2 Impairment 21.0 128.9 In-process research and development 26.9 Provision for income taxes includes the following item: Establishment of valuation allowance on deferred tax assets $ $ $ $ 21.0 $ At Year End: Total assets $ 4,308.4 $ 3,227.8 $ 2,787.6 $ 2,447.2 $ 2,420.7 Long-term liabilities 1,221.5 390.8 308.5 269.7 309.9 Stockholders equity 2,043.2 1,882.9 1,609.3 1,473.5 1,310.7 ____________________ (1) Net income includes the items identified below in Income from operations net of tax. (2) These items are recorded on a pre-tax basis. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion in our MD&A contains trend analyses and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies, including those discussed in Strategy below; anticipated future net revenue; future operating margin and other future financial results (by product type and geography) and operating expenses; the effect of unemployment and availability of credit; the effects of the U.S. credit downgrade and weak global economic conditions; our backlog; expected trends in certain financial metrics; expected market trends, including the growth of cloud, mobile and social computing; the impact of acquisitions and investment activities; the effect of fluctuations in exchange rates and our hedging activities on our financial results; our abilities to successfully expand adoption of our products; our ability to gain market acceptance of new businesses and sales initiatives; our ability to successfully increase sales of product suites as part of our overall sales strategy; the impact of economic volatility and geopolitical activities in certain countries, particularly emerging economy countries, and the resulting effect on our financial results; and the impact of our restructuring activities. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product acceptance, continuation of our stock repurchase program, statements regarding our liquidity and short-term and long-term cash requirements, as well as statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as may, believe, could, anticipate, would, might, plan, expect, and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of the factors set forth above in Item 1A , Risk Factors , and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made. Strategy Autodesks vision is to help people imagine, design and create a better world. We do this by developing software for the worlds designers, architects, engineers, and digital artiststhe people who create the world's products, buildings, infrastructure, films, and games. Autodesk serves customers in three primary markets: architecture, engineering and construction; manufacturing; and digital media and entertainment. Our goal is to provide our customers with the worlds most innovative, and engaging design software and services. Our product and services portfolio allows our customers to digitally visualize, simulate, and analyze their projects, helping them to better understand the consequences of their design decisions; save time, money, and resources; and become more innovative. Today, complex challenges such as globalization, urbanization, and sustainable design are driving our customers to new levels of performance and competitiveness, and we are committed to helping them address those challenges and take advantage of new opportunities. To achieve these goals, we are capitalizing on two of our strongest competitive advantages: our ability to bring advanced technology to mainstream markets, and the breadth and depth of our product portfolio. By innovating in existing technology categories, we bring powerful new design capabilities to volume markets. Our products are designed to be easy-to-learn and use, and to provide customers with a low cost of deployment, a low total cost of ownership, and a rapid return on investment. In addition, our software architecture allows for extensibility and integration with other products. The breadth of our technology and product line gives us a unique competitive advantage, because it allows our customers to address a wide variety of problems in ways that transcend industry and disciplinary boundaries. This is particularly important in helping our customers address the complex challenges mentioned above. We also believe that our technological leadership and global brand recognition have positioned us well for long-term growth and industry leadership. In addition to the competitive advantages afforded by our technology, our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, faculty and students is a key competitive advantage. This network of relationships provides us with a broad and deep reach into volume markets around the world. Our distributor and reseller network is extensive and provides our customers with the resources to purchase, deploy, learn, and support our products quickly and easily. We have a significant number of registered third-party developers who create products that work well with Autodesk products and extend them for a variety of specialized applications. Users with expertise in our products are broadly and globally available from educational institutions and in the existing workforce. We offer extensive educational programs, including student versions of software, curricula and faculty development. We have an extensive global community of students who are experienced with our software and poised to become the next generation of professional users thus reducing the cost of training and providing fresh talent for our customers. Our global network of distributors, resellers, third party developers, 31 Table of Contents customers, educational institutions and students has been developed over our thirty year history. We believe it is an enduring competitive advantage that is difficult for others to replicate. We continually strive to increase the business value of our design tools to our customers in a number of ways. First, we seek to address an increasing portion of our customers' workflow with products that extend the value of our customers' digital design information into visualization, analysis and simulation. Second, we seek to improve our product interoperability and usability, thus improving our customers' productivity and effectiveness. Third, we continue to develop new ways to deliver capability and value to our customers, such as product suites, cloud and social-based services, and delivery of our solutions on mobile devices and new hardware platforms. Fourth, we extend our customers' workflow with products for adjacent users and for the customers of our customers, thus increasing the value of the design information our customers produce. Finally, we continue to develop new lines of consumer products and services that are delivered and experienced through the Web, tablets, and other mobile devices providing our advanced visualization technologies to consumersa whole new category of Autodesk customer. Autodesk was founded during the platform transition from mainframes and engineering workstations to personal computers. We developed and sustained a compelling value proposition based upon desktop software for the personal computer. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry thirty years ago, we believe our industry is undergoing a similar transition from the personal computer to cloud, social, and mobile computing. To address this shift, our major business initiatives include our desire to accelerate the business' move to the cloud, transform our customers' experience, increase industry focus to meet customer demands, and develop more effective marketing. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, we undertook a number of important organizational changes to drive the success of our business. The reorganization included changes to the structure and alignment of our product development and marketing teams and re-organization of our sales teams. While these changes were intended to better serve our customers and drive future growth, we have encountered challenges in the execution of these efforts which have impacted our financial results in the short term. In order to achieve these organizational changes and to further our strategy, including our continuing shift to cloud and mobile computing, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2013, we commenced a company-wide restructuring plan. The plan included a reduction of approximately 500 positions and the consolidation of eight leased facilities with a total cost of up to $ 52.0 million ("Fiscal 2013 Plan"), of which $ 43.9 million was incurred during fiscal 2013. The termination benefits and facility related liabilities have been substantially paid as of fiscal year ended January 31, 2013 . Autodesk expects to pay the remainder of the termination benefits and facility related liabilities through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019. For further discussion see Note 15 , Restructuring Reserves , in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our growth strategy is predicated upon leading the transition in the industries we serve into the cloud in three ways: Grow. We believe sufficient opportunity remains in our PC-based software business, and we intend to continue to grow this business. In particular, we are offering product suites with improved interoperability and usability to enhance our customers' productivity. We are continuing to drive maintenance and new licensing models to better match the business needs of our customers. We will continue to emphasize developing direct relationships with large, global customers and pursuing opportunities in emerging economies. Transform. At the same time we grow our desktop software business, we are migrating many of our products to the cloud. This entails development of new cloud computing infrastructure and redesigning our applications to leverage the cloud. We are also developing new capabilities that are enabled by the cloud such as collaborative Product Lifecycle Management ("PLM") and on line simulation. Our goal is to lead our industry in transitioning to the cloud. Expand. We believe that the combination of cloud, social and mobile computing affords us the opportunity to expand our business into new markets. For example, we have added new customers through our consumer products. We intend to continue to develop our business to both add new customers and find new capabilities to incorporate in our core business. We believe that expanding our customers' portfolios to include our suites presents a meaningful growth opportunity and is an important part of our overall strategy. As our customers in all industries adopt our design suites, we believe they will experience an increase in their productivity and the value of their design data. For fiscal 2013 , revenue from suites increased 16% , as compared to the prior fiscal year. As a percentage of revenue, suites increased to 30% in fiscal 2013 as compared to 27% in fiscal 2012 . Expanding our geographic coverage is another key element of our growth strategy. Much of the growth in the worlds construction and manufacturing is happening in emerging economies. Further, emerging economies face many of the 32 Table of Contents challenges that our design technology can help address, for example infrastructure build-out. Although revenue from emerging countries decreased 4% during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 , we believe that emerging economies continue to present long-term growth opportunities for us. Revenue from emerging countries represented 14% and 16% of fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012 net revenue, respectively. While we believe there are long-term growth opportunities in emerging economies, conducting business in these countries presents significant challenges, including economic volatility, geopolitical risk, local competition, intellectual property protection, poorly developed business infrastructure, scarcity of talent and software piracy. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and may, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will acquire products, technology and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. Our strategy depends upon a number of assumptions, including that we will be able to continue making our technology available to mainstream markets; leverage our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, and students; improve the performance and functionality of our products; and adequately protect our intellectual property. If the outcome of any of these assumptions differs from our expectations, we may not be able to implement our strategy, which could potentially adversely affect our business. For further discussion regarding these and related risks see Part I , Item 1A , Risk Factors . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We regularly reevaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that of all our significant accounting policies, the following policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. However, determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. For multiple element arrangements containing only software and software-related elements, we allocate the sales price among each of the deliverables using the residual method, under which revenue is allocated to undelivered elements based on their vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value. VSOE is the price charged when an element is sold separately or a price set by management with the relevant authority. If we do not have VSOE of an undelivered software license, we defer revenue recognition on the entire sales arrangement until all elements for which we do not have VSOE are delivered. If we do not have VSOE for undelivered maintenance or services, the revenue for the arrangement is recognized over the longest contractual service period in the arrangement. We are required to exercise judgment in determining whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element based on whether our pricing for these elements is sufficiently consistent. For multiple elements arrangements involving non-software elements, including cloud subscription services, our revenue recognition policy is based upon the accounting guidance contained in ASC 605, Revenue Recognition . For these arrangements, we first allocate the total arrangement consideration based on the relative selling prices of the software group of elements as a whole and to the non-software elements. We then further allocate consideration within the software group to the respective elements within that group using the residual method as described above. We exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of revenue to be recognized in each accounting period. Our assessment of likelihood of collection is also a critical factor in determining the timing of revenue recognition. If we do not believe that collection is probable, the revenue will be deferred until the earlier of when collection is deemed probable or payment is received. Our indirect channel model includes both a two-tiered distribution structure, where distributors sell to resellers, and a 33 Table of Contents one-tiered structure where Autodesk sells directly to resellers. Our product license revenue from distributors and resellers are generally recognized at the time title to our product passes to the distributor, in a two-tiered structure, or reseller, in a one-tiered structure, provided all other criteria for revenue recognition are met. This policy is predicated on our ability to estimate sales returns, among other criteria. We are also required to evaluate whether our distributors and resellers have the ability to honor their commitment to make fixed or determinable payments, regardless of whether they collect payment from their customers. Our policy also presumes that we have no significant performance obligations in connection with the sale of our product licenses by our distributors and resellers to their customers. If we were to change any of these assumptions or judgments, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. Marketable Securities. At January 31, 2013 we had $ 753.2 million of short and long-term marketable securities. Marketable securities are stated at fair value. As described in Note 2 , Financial Instruments , in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we estimate the fair value of our marketable securities each quarter. Fair value is defined as an exit price, representing the amount that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When identical or similar assets are traded in active markets, the level of judgment required to estimate their fair value is relatively low. This is generally true for our cash and cash equivalents and the majority of our marketable securities, which we consider to be Level 1 assets and Level 2 assets. However, determining the fair value of marketable securities when observable inputs are not available (Level 3) requires significant judgment. For example we use a discounted cash flow model to estimate the fair value of our auction rate securities; because we have determined that the market for those securities is inactive. These assumptions are inherently subjective and involve significant management judgment. Whenever possible, we use observable market data and rely on unobservable inputs only when observable market data is not available, when determining fair value. Business Combinations. We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to assets and liabilities, as well as to in-process research and development based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The purchase price allocation process requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to intangible assets and deferred revenue obligations. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Examples of critical estimates used in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from sales, maintenance agreements and acquired developed technologies; the acquired companys trade name and customer relationships as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name and customer relationships will continue to be used in the combined companys product portfolio; expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; and discount rates. Goodwill. We test goodwill for impairment annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or sooner should events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. When assessing goodwill for impairment, we assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Qualitative factors considered in this assessment include cost factors; financial performance; legal, regulatory, contractual, political, business, or other factors; entity specific factors; industry and market considerations, macroeconomic conditions, and other relevant events and factors affecting the reporting unit. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than its carrying value, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. If the two-step impairment test is necessary, we use discounted cash flow models which include assumptions regarding projected cash flows. Variances in these assumptions could have a significant impact on our conclusion as to whether goodwill is impaired, or the amount of any impairment charge. Impairment charges, if any, result from instances where the fair values of net assets associated with goodwill are less than their carrying values. As changes in business conditions and our assumptions occur, we may be required to record impairment charges. For our annual impairment assessment in fiscal 2013 , based on a review of the qualitative factors described above, we determined that for each of our Platform Solutions and Emerging Business, Manufacturing ("MFG") and Architecture, Engineering and Construction ("AEC") reporting units, it was more likely than not that the fair vale of the reporting units exceeded the carrying amount. As a result, we concluded that performing the two-step impairment test was not necessary for these reporting units. For the Media and Entertainment (M&E) reporting unit, Autodesk deemed the two-step impairment test was necessary and used a discounted cash flow model which included assumptions regarding projected cash flows. Based on this testing, 34 Table of Contents Autodesk determined that there was no impairment of goodwill for the M&E reporting unit during the year ended January 31, 2013 . Realizability of Long-Lived Assets. We assess the realizability of our long-lived assets and related intangible assets, other than goodwill, annually during the fourth fiscal quarter, or sooner should events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying values of such assets may not be recoverable. We consider the following factors important in determining when to perform an impairment review: significant under-performance of a business or product line relative to budget; shifts in business strategies which affect the continued uses of the assets; significant negative industry or economic trends; and the results of past impairment reviews. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, we assess recoverability of these assets. We assess recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate. If impairment indicators were present based on our undiscounted cash flow models, which include assumptions regarding projected cash flows, we would perform a discounted cash flow analysis to assess impairments on long-lived assets. Variances in these assumptions could have a significant impact on our conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired or the amount of any impairment charge. Impairment charges, if any, result in situations where any fair values of these assets are less than their carrying values. In addition to our recoverability assessments, we routinely review the remaining estimated useful lives of our long-lived assets. Any reduction in the useful life assumption will result in increased depreciation and amortization expense in the quarter when such determinations are made, as well as in subsequent quarters. We will continue to evaluate the values of our long-lived assets in accordance with applicable accounting rules. As changes in business conditions and our assumptions occur, we may be required to record impairment charges. Income Taxes. We currently have $ 165.0 million of net deferred tax assets, primarily a result of tax credits, net operating losses, and timing differences for reserves, accrued liabilities, stock options, deferred revenue, purchased technologies and capitalized intangibles, partially offset by the establishment of U.S. deferred tax liabilities on unremitted earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries, deferred tax liabilities associated with tax method change on advanced payments and valuation allowances against U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets. We perform a quarterly assessment of the recoverability of these net deferred tax assets and believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions to realize the net deferred tax assets. Our judgments regarding future profitability may change due to future market conditions and other factors, including intercompany transfer pricing adjustments. Any change in future profitability may require material adjustments to these net deferred tax assets, resulting in a reduction in net income in the period when such determination is made. We believe our tax positions, including intercompany transfer pricing policies, are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. It is possible that these positions may be challenged by jurisdictional tax authorities and may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate. Stock-Based Compensation . We measure stock-based compensation cost at the grant date fair value of the award, and recognize expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. We estimate the fair value of certain stock-based payment awards (including grants of stock options and employee stock purchases related to the employee stock purchase plan) using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. The determination of the fair value of a stock-based award on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model is affected by our stock price on the date of grant as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include our expected stock price volatility over the expected term of the award, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, the risk-free interest rate for the expected term of the award and expected dividends. The variables used in the model are reviewed on a quarterly basis and adjusted, as needed. Share-based compensation cost for restricted stock is measured on the closing fair market value of our commons stock on the date of grant. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Legal Contingencies . As described in Part I , Item 3 , Legal Proceedings and Part II , Item 8 , Note 8 , Commitments and Contingencies , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we are periodically involved in various legal claims and proceedings. We routinely review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any matter is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability for the estimated loss. Because of inherent uncertainties related to these legal matters, we base our loss accruals on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess our potential liability and may revise our estimates. Such revisions could have a material impact on future quarterly or annual results of operations. 35 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Part II , Item 8 , Note 1 , Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. Overview of Fiscal 2013 Fiscal Year Ended As a % of Net Revenue Fiscal Year Ended As a % of Net Revenue January 31, 2013 January 31, 2012 (in millions) Net Revenue $ 2,312.2 100 % $ 2,215.6 100 % Cost of revenue 238.5 10 % 229.1 10 % Gross Profit 2,073.7 90 % 1,986.5 90 % Operating expenses 1,767.8 76 % 1,630.9 74 % Income from Operations $ 305.9 13 % $ 355.6 16 % We experienced mixed results in fiscal 2013 . During fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , net revenue increased 4% and gross profit increased 4% , while income from operations decreased 14% . Contributing to the year over year increases in revenue during fiscal 2013 were increases in revenue from maintenance and new seat license revenue. We experienced increases in revenue for many of our major products, reportable segments and geographic areas during fiscal 2013 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. The reasons for these increases are discussed below under the heading "Results from Operations." Revenue from flagship products was 56% of total net revenue during fiscal 2013 , an increase of 1% as compared to fiscal 2012 . Revenue from suites was 30% of total net revenue for fiscal 2013 , an increase of 16% as compared to fiscal 2012 . Revenue from new and adjacent products was 15% of total net revenue during the fiscal 2013 , a decreased of 3% as compared to fiscal 2012 . We anticipate that, as our new and existing customers migrate from our stand-alone products, our revenue from suites will increase as a percentage of revenue and that our revenue from our flagship and new and adjacent products will decline as a percentage of revenue. While net revenue increased $96.6 million or 4% for fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , our operating expenses increased $ 136.9 million or 8% for fiscal 2013 . The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to higher employee related costs and restructuring charges incurred in fiscal 2013 as a result of the Fiscal 2013 Plan. Similarly, income from operations decreased 14% in fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , and our total operating margin decreased from 16% for fiscal 2012 to 13% for fiscal 2013 primarily due to higher employee related costs and restructuring charges during fiscal 2013 . We believe net revenue for fiscal 2014 will increase by approximately 6% compared to fiscal 2013 . We anticipate fiscal 2014 operating margin will increase by approximately 455 to 480 basis points compared to fiscal 2013 . We generate a significant amount of our revenue in the U.S., Japan, Germany, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Our revenue was negatively impacted from foreign exchange rate changes during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 . Had applicable exchange rates from fiscal 2012 been in effect during fiscal 2013 and had we excluded foreign exchange hedge gains and losses from fiscal 2013 , (on a constant currency basis), net revenue would have increased 5% compared to the prior fiscal year. During fiscal 2013 , total spend, defined as cost of revenue plus operating expenses, increased 8% both as reported and on a constant currency basis compared to the prior fiscal year. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may have a significant effect on net revenue, total spend and income from operations in future periods. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate effect on a portion of the net revenue of certain anticipated transactions but do not attempt to completely mitigate the impact of fluctuation of such foreign currency against the U.S. dollar. We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (collectively, Tech Data). Tech Data accounted for 23% and 17% of our consolidated net revenue during fiscal year 2013 and 2012 , respectively. On October 27, 2011, Tech Data purchased certain assets of Mensch und Maschine Software (MuM), which has been a distributor of our products in Europe. The acquisition concentrates additional sales through Tech Data, which on a consolidated basis would have accounted for 21% of our net revenue for fiscal years 2012 if the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of fiscal 2012.We believe our business is not substantially 36 Table of Contents dependent on Tech Data. Our customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of the agreements between Tech Data and us be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. Our primary goals for fiscal 2014 are to grow revenue from our current levels consistent with seasonal trends, manage our operating margin, and to invest in product functionality and new product lines, including suites offerings, while controlling our operating expenses. In addition, we will continue to look closely at our cost structure to find ways to improve our operating margin while allowing continued investment in growth and productivity initiatives. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our financial goals and improve our financial results. Additionally, we believe that unemployment rates and the availability of credit to major industries we serve are important indicators for our business. If we are unable to successfully achieve our major business initiatives or if global economic conditions deteriorate, we may not achieve our financial goals. At January 31, 2013 , we had $ 2,365.4 million in cash and marketable securities. This amount includes the aggregate net proceeds of $739.3 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and related offering expenses, from our December 2012 registered underwritten public offering of $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.95% senior notes due December 15, 2017 and $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.6% senior notes due December 15, 2022. We completed fiscal 2013 with a higher deferred revenue balance and a higher accounts receivable balance as compared to fiscal 2012 . Our deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2013 included $ 733.5 million of customer maintenance contracts, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the life of the contracts. The term of our maintenance contracts is typically one year but may be two or three year, or occasionally as long as five years. We repurchased 12.5 million shares of our common stock for $ 431.2 million during fiscal 2013 . Comparatively, we repurchased 9.7 million shares of our common stock for $ 327.4 million during fiscal 2012 . Results of Operations Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 Increase (decrease) compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 Increase (decrease) compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2011 $ % $ % (in millions) Net Revenue: License and other $ 1,390.6 $ 33.0 2 % $ 1,357.6 $ 185.5 16 % $ 1,172.1 Maintenance 921.6 63.6 7 % 858.0 78.3 10 % 779.7 $ 2,312.2 $ 96.6 4 % $ 2,215.6 $ 263.8 14 % $ 1,951.8 Net Revenue by Geographic Area: Americas $ 836.2 $ 37.7 5 % $ 798.5 $ 97.0 14 % $ 701.5 Europe, Middle East and Africa 868.5 6.3 1 % 862.2 79.4 10 % 782.8 Asia Pacific 607.5 52.6 9 % 554.9 87.4 19 % 467.5 $ 2,312.2 $ 96.6 4 % $ 2,215.6 $ 263.8 14 % $ 1,951.8 Net Revenue by Operating Segment: Platform Solutions and Emerging Business $ 849.7 $ 16.6 2 % $ 833.1 $ 116.9 16 % $ 716.2 Architecture, Engineering and Construction 694.3 67.9 11 % 626.4 58.4 10 % 568.0 Manufacturing 573.8 33.5 6 % 540.3 70.3 15 % 470.0 Media and Entertainment 194.4 (21.4 ) (10 )% 215.8 18.2 9 % 197.6 $ 2,312.2 $ 96.6 4 % $ 2,215.6 $ 263.8 14 % $ 1,951.8 Fiscal 2013 Net Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2012 Net Revenue License and Other Revenue License and other revenue is comprised of two components: all forms of product license revenue and other revenue. Product license revenue includes: software license revenue from the sale of new seat licenses, upgrades, product revenue for 37 Table of Contents Creative Finishing and revenue from on-demand software and services. Other revenue includes revenue from consulting, training, Autodesk Developers Network and Creative Finishing customer support, and is recognized over time, as the services are performed. Total license and other revenue increased 2% during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 . This increase was primarily due to the 6% increase in revenue from commercial new seat licenses during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 . During fiscal 2013 , all of the 6% increase was due to the increase in the number of seats sold. Average net revenue per seat was flat in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. Commercial new seat revenue, as a percentage of license and other revenue, was 69% for fiscal 2013 and 67% for fiscal 2012 . Offsetting the increase in commercial new seat license revenue during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , was the 3% decrease in upgrade revenue. Upgrade revenue decreased during fiscal 2013 in comparison to fiscal 2012 primarily due to more successful upgrade promotions run during fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2013. Backlog related to current software license product orders that had not shipped at the end of the quarter decreased by $ 7.1 million during fiscal 2013 from $ 27.1 million at January 31, 2012 to $ 20.0 million at January 31, 2013 . Backlog from current software license product orders that we have not yet shipped consists of orders for currently available licensed software products from customers with approved credit status and may include orders with current ship dates and orders with ship dates beyond the current fiscal period. Revenue from the sales of our services, training and support, included in License and other revenue, represented less than 5% of net revenue for all periods presented. Maintenance Revenue Our maintenance revenue relates to a program known by our user community as the Subscription Program. Our maintenance program provides our commercial and educational customers with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance program, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, downloadable training courses and online support. We recognize maintenance revenue ratably over the maintenance contract periods. Maintenance revenue increased 7% during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to a 7% increase in commercial maintenance revenue. The 7% increase in commercial maintenance revenue was due to a 6 percentage point increase in commercial enrollment during the corresponding maintenance contract term and a 1 percentage point increase in average net revenue per maintenance seat. Commercial maintenance revenue represented 98% of maintenance revenue for both fiscal 2013 and 2012 . Changes in maintenance revenue lag changes in net billings for maintenance contracts because we recognize the revenue from those contracts ratably over their contract terms. The term of our maintenance contracts is predominantly one year but may be two or three years or occasionally as long as five years. Net maintenance billings increased 4% during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 . Net maintenance billings increased due to early maintenance renewals in advance of a price increase and due to new multi-year maintenance contracts. Our deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2013 and January 31, 2012 was $ 834.6 million and $ 719.2 million , respectively, primarily related to customer maintenance contracts, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the life of the contracts. Net Revenue by Geographic Area Net revenue in the Americas geography increase d by 5% both as reported and on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 . This increase was primarily due to an 8% increase in maintenance revenue during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 . Revenue from new seats was flat during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 . The increase in our revenue in this geography was led by the U.S. and Canada. Net revenue in the EMEA geography increase d by 1% , or 3% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 . The increase was primarily due to a 5% increase in maintenance revenue, partially offset by a 6% decrease in new seat revenue. The increase in our revenue in this geography was led by Ireland, Finland and Germany, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from Sweden and the United Kingdom. 38 Table of Contents Net revenue in the APAC geography increased by 9% , or 8% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to an 18% increase in new seat revenue and a 12% increase in maintenance revenue. Net revenue expansion in the APAC geography during fiscal 2013 was led by Japan, followed by China and South Korea. Net revenue in emerging economies decreased by 4% , or 2% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to a decrease in revenue from Brazil, Poland and India, partially offset by an increase in revenue from China. Revenue from emerging economies represented 14% of net revenue for fiscal 2013 and 16% for fiscal 2012 . International net revenue represented 71% and 72% of our net revenue in fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012 , respectively. We believe that international revenue will continue to comprise a majority of our total net revenue. Unfavorable economic conditions in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including in emerging economies, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies have significantly affected, and could continue to significantly affect, our financial results for a given period even though we hedge a portion of our current and projected revenue. Additionally, the U.S. credit-rating downgrade and weak global economic conditions that have been characterized by restructuring of sovereign debt, high unemployment, and volatility in the financial markets may impact our future financial results. Net Revenue by Operating Segment We have four reportable segments: PSEB, AEC, MFG and M&E. We have no material inter-segment revenue. Net revenue for PSEB, which includes our Autodesk Design Suite, increased 2% during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to a 4% increase in revenue from our flagship AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products. Net revenue for AEC increased 11% during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to a 26% increase in revenue from our AEC suites, which includes our Autodesk Building Design Suite. Net revenue for MFG increased 6% during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to an 8% increase in revenue from our MFG suites, which includes the Autodesk Product Design Suite. Net revenue for M&E decreased 10% during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to an 8% decrease in revenue from our Animation product group, which includes our Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite, and a 16% decrease in revenue from Creative Finishing. The decrease in Animation revenue was primarily due to a 22% decrease in revenue from our flagship product, 3Ds Max, partially offset by a 26% increase in revenue from our animation suites, which includes our Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite. The overall decrease in M&E revenue is related to a general decrease in the M&E industry end-market demand, as well as the inclusion of our M&E products in other Autodesk industry suites. Fiscal 2012 Net Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2011 Net Revenue License and Other Revenue License and other revenue is comprised of two components: all forms of product license revenue and other revenue. Product license revenue includes: software license revenue from the sale of new seat licenses, upgrades, product revenue for Creative Finishing and revenue from on-demand software and services. Other revenue includes revenue from consulting, training, Autodesk Developers Network and Creative Finishing customer support, and is recognized over time, as the services are performed. Total license and other revenue increased 16% during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to a 16% increase in revenue from commercial new seat licenses. During fiscal 2012 , 13 percentage points of the 16% increase was due to an increase in the number of seats sold, and 3 percentage points was due to an increase in the average net revenue per seat. Commercial new seat revenue, as a percentage of license and other revenue, was 67% for both fiscal 2012 and 2011 . Also contributing to the increase in license and other revenue during fiscal 2012 , as compared to fiscal 2011 , was a 14% increase in upgrade revenue. Upgrade revenue increased during fiscal 2012 in comparison to fiscal 2011 primarily due to an ACAD LT upgrade promotion during the first quarter of fiscal 2012, an increase in large enterprise transactions, customers migrating from stand-alone products to suites and a promotion that was run related to the education solutions suites. 39 Table of Contents Backlog related to current software license product orders that had not shipped at the end of the quarter decreased by $ 0.4 million during fiscal 2012 from $ 27.5 million at January 31, 2011 to $ 27.1 million at January 31, 2012 . Backlog from current software license product orders that we have not yet shipped consists of orders for currently available licensed software products from customers with approved credit status and may include orders with current ship dates and orders with ship dates beyond the current fiscal period. Revenue from the sales of our services, training and support, included in License and other revenue, represented less than 5% of net revenue for all periods presented. Maintenance Revenue Our maintenance revenue relates to a program known by our user community as the Subscription Program. Our maintenance program provides our commercial and educational customers with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance program, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, downloadable training courses and online support. We recognize maintenance revenue ratably over the maintenance contract periods. Maintenance revenue increased 10% during fiscal 2012 , as compared to fiscal 2011 , primarily due to a 10% increase in commercial maintenance revenue. The 10% increase in commercial maintenance revenue was due to an 8 percentage point increase in commercial enrollment during the corresponding maintenance contract term and a 2 percentage point increase in net revenue per maintenance seat. Commercial maintenance revenue represented 98% of maintenance revenue for both fiscal 2012 and 2011 . Changes in maintenance revenue lag changes in net billings for maintenance contracts because we recognize the revenue from those contracts ratably over their contract terms. Our maintenance contracts are for a term of predominantly one year, but may be two or three year, or occasionally as long as five year, terms. Net maintenance billings increased 19% during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 . This increase was due to an increase in maintenance renewals, new multi-year maintenance contracts, and the impact from the upgrade promotions mentioned above in "License and Other Revenue." Our deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2012 and January 31, 2011 was $ 719.2 million and $ 587.9 million , respectively, related to customer maintenance contracts, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the life of the contracts. Net Revenue by Geographic Area Net revenue in the Americas geography increased by 14% both as reported and on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2012 , as compared to fiscal 2011 . This increase was primarily due to a 14% increase in revenue from new seats during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 . Maintenance revenue increased 10% during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 . The increase in our revenue in this geography was led by the U.S. and Canada. Net revenue in the EMEA geography increased by 10% both as reported and on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 . The increase was primarily due to a 14% increase in new seat revenue and a 6% increase in maintenance revenue. The increase in our revenue in this geography was led by the Russian Federation, Belgium, United Kingdom and Germany. Net revenue in the APAC geography increased by 19% , or 12% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2012 , as compared to fiscal 2011 , primarily due to a 20% increase in new seat revenue and a 21% increase in maintenance revenue. Net revenue expansion in the APAC geography during fiscal 2012 occurred in virtually all countries, led by Japan, followed by Australia and South Korea. Net revenue in emerging economies increased by 16% , or 13% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 , primarily due to revenue from the Russian Federation, India, Mexico, and Brazil. This growth was a significant factor in our international sales growth during fiscal 2012 . Revenue from emerging economies represented 16% of net revenue for fiscal 2012 and 15% for fiscal 2011 . International net revenue represented 72% and 71% of our net revenue in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 , respectively. We believe that international revenue will continue to comprise a majority of our total net revenue. Unfavorable economic conditions in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue may have an adverse effect on our business in 40 Table of Contents those countries and our overall financial performance. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies have significantly affected, and could continue to significantly affect, our financial results for a given period even though we hedge a portion of our current and projected revenue. Additionally, the U.S. credit-rating downgrade and weak global economic conditions that have been characterized by restructuring of sovereign debt, high unemployment, and volatility in the financial markets may impact our future financial results. Net Revenue by Operating Segment We have four reportable segments: PSEB, AEC, MFG and M&E. We have no material inter-segment revenue. Note, we have conformed our explanation of the increases within the individual segments to align with current period presentation. Net revenue for PSEB, which includes our Autodesk Design Suite, increased 16% during fiscal 2012 , as compared to fiscal 2011 , primarily due to a 11% increase in revenue from our flagship AutoCAD LT and AutoCAD products. Net revenue for AEC increased 10% during fiscal 2012 , as compared to fiscal 2011 , primarily due to a 37% increase in revenue from our AEC suites, which includes our Autodesk Building Design Suite. Net revenue for MFG increased 15% during fiscal 2012 , as compared to fiscal 2011 , primarily due to a 16% increase in revenue from our MFG suites, which includes the Autodesk Product Design Suite. Net revenue for M&E increased 9% during fiscal 2012 , as compared to fiscal 2011 , primarily due to a 15% increase in revenue from our Animation product group, which includes our Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite, offset by a 3% decrease in revenue from Creative Finishing. The increase in Animation revenue was primarily due to a 13% increase in revenue from our flagship Autodesk Maya products. Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost of Revenue Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 Increase (decrease) compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2011 $ % $ % (in millions) Cost of revenue: License and other $ 198.1 $ 11.0 6 % $ 187.1 $ 24.9 15 % $ 162.2 Maintenance 40.4 (1.6 ) (4 )% 42.0 7.6 22 % 34.4 $ 238.5 $ 9.4 4 % $ 229.1 $ 32.5 17 % $ 196.6 As a percentage of net revenue 10 % 10 % 10 % Cost of license and other revenue includes labor costs of order fulfillment and costs of fulfilling consulting and training services contracts and collaborative project management services contracts. Cost of license and other revenue also includes stock-based compensation expense, direct material and overhead charges, amortization of purchased technology, professional services fees and royalties. Direct material and overhead charges include the cost of hardware sold (mainly PC-based workstations for Creative Finishing in the M&E segment), costs associated with transferring our software to electronic media, printing of user manuals and packaging materials, and shipping and handling costs. Cost of license and other revenue increased 6% during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to an increase in cloud services-related expenses. Cost of license and other revenue increased 15% during fiscal 2012 , as compared to fiscal 2011 , primarily due to increased support costs and lower margin consulting engagements. Cost of maintenance revenue includes labor costs of providing product support to our maintenance customers, including stock-based compensation expense for these employees, rent and occupancy, shipping and handling costs, and professional services fees. Cost of maintenance revenue decreased 4% during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to an increase in electronic fulfillment. Cost of maintenance revenue increased 22% during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 due to an increase in maintenance support headcount and increased annual fulfillment costs related to supplying USB flash drives of our suites products. 41 Table of Contents Cost of revenue, at least over the near term, is affected by the volume and mix of product sales, mix of physical versus electronic fulfillment, fluctuations in consulting costs, amortization of purchased technology, new customer support offerings, royalty rates for licensed technology embedded in our products, and employee stock-based compensation expense. We expect cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars and slightly increase as a percentage of net revenue during fiscal 2014 , as compared to fiscal 2013 , primarily due to an increase in costs associated with meeting our major business initiatives. Marketing and Sales Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2011 $ % $ % (in millions) Marketing and sales $ 875.5 $ 32.9 4 % $ 842.6 $ 66.6 9 % $ 776.0 As a percentage of net revenue 38 % 38 % 40 % Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense for our marketing and sales employees, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, and the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and expositions, and various sales and promotional programs. Marketing and sales expenses also include labor costs of sales and order processing, sales and dealer commissions, rent and occupancy, and the cost of supplies and equipment. Marketing and sales expenses increased 4% during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to higher employee-related costs from salaries and fringe benefits and stock-based compensation primarily associated with increased headcount and merit increases in fiscal 2013. These costs were partially offset by a decrease in professional fees and advertising costs. Marketing and sales expenses increased 9% during fiscal 2012 , as compared to fiscal 2011 , primarily due to higher employee-related costs related to salaries and fringe benefits primarily associated with increased head count and the reinstatement of merit increases in fiscal 2012. We expect to balance our need to invest in the marketing and sales of our products with our desire to actively manage our sales and marketing operating expenses. As a result, we expect marketing and sales expense to increase in absolute dollars but remain relatively consistent as a percentage of net revenue in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 , primarily due to an increase in costs as we work towards meeting our major business initiatives. Research and Development Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2011 $ % $ % (in millions) Research and development $ 600.0 $ 33.5 6 % $ 566.5 $ 70.3 14 % $ 496.2 As a percentage of net revenue 26 % 26 % 25 % Research and development expenses, which are expensed as incurred, consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for research and development employees, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, rent and occupancy, and professional services, such as fees paid to software development firms and independent contractors. Research and development expenses increased 6% during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense associated with the acquisition of Socialcam in the third quarter of fiscal 2013 and an increase in salaries and fringe benefits primarily due to merit increases in fiscal 2013. Research and development expenses increased 14% during fiscal 2012 , as compared to fiscal 2011 , primarily due to an increase in salaries and fringe benefits primarily associated with increased headcount and the reinstatement of merit increases in fiscal 2012 and an increase in professional service fees in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. 42 Table of Contents We expect research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars, but remain relatively consistent as a percentage of net revenue during fiscal 2014 , as compared to fiscal 2013 , as we continue to invest in product development in fiscal 2014 . General and Administrative Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2011 $ % $ % (in millions) General and administrative $ 248.4 $ 25.3 11 % $ 223.1 $ 22.3 11 % $ 200.8 As a percentage of net revenue 11 % 10 % 10 % General and administrative expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our finance, human resources and legal employees, as well as professional fees for legal and accounting services, expenses related to our operating expense hedge activity, amortization of acquisition related customer relationships and trade names, and expense of travel, entertainment and training. General and administrative expenses increased 11% from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2013 primarily due to an increase in amortization of acquisition related customer relationships and trade names and fluctuations in our operating expense hedge activity in fiscal 2013 . Also contributing to the increase was an increase in salaries primarily due to merit increases in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. General and administrative expenses increased 11% from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to an increase in amortization of acquisition related customer relationships and trade names and the increase in salaries primarily associated with increased head count and the reinstatement of merit increases in fiscal 2012. We expect general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars but remain relatively consistent as a percentage of net revenue during fiscal 2014 , as compared to fiscal 2013 , primarily due to an increase in costs associated with supporting our major business initiatives. Restructuring Charges (Benefits), Net Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 Increase compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 Decrease compared to prior fiscal year Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2011 $ % $ % (in millions) Restructuring charges (benefits), net $ 43.9 $ 45.2 3,477 % $ (1.3 ) $ (12.1 ) (112 )% $ 10.8 As a percentage of net revenue 2 % % 1 % During the third quarter of fiscal 2013, Autodesk initiated a restructuring plan that included a reduction in force and the consolidation of certain leased facilities. During fiscal 2013 , Autodesk recorded a restructuring charge of $ 43.9 million . Of this amount, $ 40.6 million was recorded for one-time termination benefits and other costs and $ 3.3 million was recorded for facilities-related costs. These termination benefits and facility related liabilities have been substantially paid as of fiscal year ended January 31, 2013 . See Note 15 , Restructuring Reserves , in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 43 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income, Net The following table sets forth the components of interest and other income, net: Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Interest and investment income, net (1) $ 4.9 $ 5.4 $ 8.9 Gain (loss) on foreign currency 1.2 (1.1 ) (14.0 ) (Loss) gain on strategic investments (1) (4.0 ) 0.3 2.0 Other income 2.0 2.7 3.7 Interest and other income, net $ 4.1 $ 7.3 $ 0.6 ____________________ (1) For comparability, the presentation of the balances at January 31, 2012 and January 31, 2011 was adjusted to align to current year presentation. Interest and other income, net, decreased $ 3.2 million during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily due to a reduction in our net interest and investment income and losses incurred due to impairment of certain strategic investments. A loss on strategic investments occurs when a net reduction in valuation occurs or an impairment is recorded. Impairment results from the determination that the value of the investment is no longer recoverable. The decrease in interest and investment income, net, during fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 is primarily due to interest expense resulting from the issuance of $ 400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.95% senior notes due December 15, 2017 and $ 350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.6% senior notes due December 15, 2022 , and a decrease in the fair value of our trading securities that are marked-to-market each period. Interest and investment income fluctuates based on average cash, marketable securities and debt balances, average maturities and interest rates. Interest and other income, net, increased $ 6.7 million during fiscal 2012 , as compared to fiscal 2011 , primarily due to a reduction in foreign currency losses. These losses are due to the impact of re-measuring foreign currency transactions into the functional currency of the corresponding entity. The amount of gain (loss) on foreign currency is driven by the volume of foreign currency transactions and the foreign currency exchange rates for the period. Provision for Income Taxes We account for income taxes and the related accounts under the liability method. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the basis differences reverse. Our effective tax rate was 20% and 21% during fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012 , respectively. Our effective tax rate decreased one percentage point from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2013 due to lower state tax expense and various other items, offset in part by increased non-deductible stock-based compensation expense. Our effective tax rate was 21% and 22% during fiscal 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Our effective tax rate decreased one percentage point from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2012 primarily due to an increase in tax benefits from foreign earnings taxed at different rates in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 , partially offset by tax benefits associated with closure of audits in fiscal 2011. Our future effective tax rate may be materially impacted by the amount of benefits and charges from tax amounts associated with our foreign earnings that are taxed at rates different from the federal statutory rate, research credits, state income taxes, the tax impact of stock-based compensation, accounting for uncertain tax positions, business combinations, U.S. Manufacturer's deduction, closure of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits, changes in valuation allowances and changes in tax laws including possible U.S. tax law changes that, if enacted, could significantly impact how U.S. multinational companies are taxed on foreign subsidiary earnings. A significant amount of our earnings is generated by our Europe and Asia Pacific subsidiaries. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates or we repatriate certain foreign earnings on which U.S. taxes have not previously been provided. 44 Table of Contents At January 31, 2013 , we had net deferred tax assets of $ 165.0 million . We believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions to realize these assets. For additional information regarding our income tax provision and reconciliation of our effective rate to the federal statutory rate of 35%, see Note 4 , Income Taxes , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Financial Information In addition to our results determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) discussed above, we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance. For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , our gross profit, gross margin, income from operations, operating margin, net income and diluted earnings per share on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis were as follows (in millions except for gross margin, operating margin and per share data): January 31, 2013 January 31, 2012 January 31, 2011 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 2,073.7 $ 1,986.5 $ 1,755.2 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 2,118.6 $ 2,028.4 $ 1,790.0 Gross margin 90 % 90 % 90 % Non-GAAP gross margin 92 % 92 % 92 % Income from operations $ 305.9 $ 355.6 $ 271.4 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 587.9 $ 533.4 $ 418.8 Operating margin 13 % 16 % 14 % Non-GAAP operating margin 25 % 24 % 21 % Net income $ 247.4 $ 285.3 $ 212.0 Non-GAAP net income (1) $ 450.0 $ 405.4 $ 310.4 Diluted earnings per share $ 1.07 $ 1.22 $ 0.90 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (1) $ 1.94 $ 1.74 $ 1.32 _______________ (1) Effective in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, Autodesk began excluding gains and losses on strategic investments for purposes of its non-GAAP financial measures. Prior period non-GAAP interest and other income (expense), net, net income and earnings per share amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation. For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, we use non-GAAP measures to supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis. These non-GAAP measures do not include certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. We use non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe those measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our earning potential. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to our historical results and operating guidance as well as that of competitors. We also use these measures for purposes of determining company-wide incentive compensation. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures included above are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which charges are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our public disclosures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 45 Table of Contents Reconciliation of GAAP Financial Measures to Non-GAAP Financial Measures (In millions except for gross margin, operating margin and per share data): Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 2012 2011 (Unaudited) Gross profit $ 2,073.7 $ 1,986.5 $ 1,755.2 Stock-based compensation expense 5.2 3.9 2.9 Amortization of purchased intangibles(1) 39.7 38.0 31.9 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 2,118.6 $ 2,028.4 $ 1,790.0 Gross margin 90 % 90 % 90 % Stock-based compensation expense % % % Amortization of purchased intangibles 2 % 2 % 2 % Non-GAAP gross margin 92 % 92 % 92 % Income from operations $ 305.9 $ 355.6 $ 271.4 Stock-based compensation expense 156.3 108.8 80.7 Amortization of purchased intangibles(1) 81.8 70.3 55.9 Restructuring charges (benefits), net 43.9 (1.3 ) 10.8 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 587.9 $ 533.4 $ 418.8 Operating margin 13 % 16 % 14 % Stock-based compensation expense 7 % 5 % 4 % Amortization of purchased intangibles(1) 3 % 3 % 3 % Restructuring charges (benefits), net 2 % % % Non-GAAP operating margin 25 % 24 % 21 % Net income $ 247.4 $ 285.3 $ 212.0 Stock-based compensation expense 156.3 108.8 80.7 Amortization of purchased intangibles(1) 81.8 70.3 55.9 Restructuring charges (benefits), net 43.9 (1.3 ) 10.8 Loss (gain) on strategic investments(2) 4.0 (0.3 ) (2.0 ) Discrete tax provision items (26.7 ) (6.8 ) (6.0 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (56.7 ) (50.9 ) (43.0 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 450.0 $ 405.1 $ 308.4 Diluted net income per share $ 1.07 $ 1.22 $ 0.90 Stock-based compensation expense 0.67 0.47 0.34 Amortization of purchased intangibles(1) 0.36 0.30 0.24 Impairment of goodwill Restructuring charges (benefits), net 0.18 (0.01 ) 0.05 Loss (gain) on strategic investments(2) 0.02 (0.01 ) Discrete tax provision items (0.12 ) (0.03 ) (0.03 ) Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (0.24 ) (0.21 ) (0.18 ) Non-GAAP diluted net income per share $ 1.94 $ 1.74 $ 1.31 ____________________ (1) Amortization of purchased intangibles includes amortization of purchased developed technology, customer relationships, and trade names for acquisitions subsequent to December 2005. (2) Effective in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, Autodesk began excluding gains and losses on strategic investments for purposes of its non-GAAP financial measures. Prior period non-GAAP interest and other income (expense), net, net income and earnings per share amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation. 46 Table of Contents Our non-GAAP financial measures as set forth in the table above exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expenses . We exclude stock-based compensation expenses from non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Amortization of purchased intangibles . We incur amortization of acquisition-related purchased intangible assets in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. The amortization of purchased intangibles varies depending on the level of acquisition activity and management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Goodwill impairment . This is a non-cash charge to write-down goodwill to fair value when there was an indication that the asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Restructuring charges (benefits), net . These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancellation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing financial results in the current period. Loss (gain) on strategic investments. We exclude gains and losses related to our strategic investments from our non-GAAP measures primarily because management finds it useful to exclude these variable gains and losses on these investments in assessing our financial results. Included in these amounts are non-cash unrealized gains and losses on the derivative components and realized gains and losses on the sale or losses on the impairment of these investments. Establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets . This is a non-cash charge to record a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various cash expenses to assist in budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Discrete tax items . We exclude the GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from the non-GAAP measure of income, and include a non-GAAP tax provision based upon the projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Discrete tax items include income tax expenses or benefits that do not relate to ordinary income from continuing operations in the current fiscal year, unusual or infrequently occurring items, or the tax impact of certain stock-based compensation. Examples of discrete tax items include, but are not limited to, certain changes in judgment and changes in estimates of tax matters related to prior fiscal years, certain costs related to business combinations, certain changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets or changes in tax law. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to ongoing operations. Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses . The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses, primarily due to stock-based compensation, purchased intangibles and restructuring for GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of cash is from the sale of licenses to our products. Our primary use of cash is payment of our operating costs which consist primarily of employee-related expenses, such as compensation and benefits, as well as general operating expenses for marketing, facilities and overhead costs. In addition to operating expenses, we also use cash to invest in our growth initiatives, which include acquisitions of products, technology and businesses and to fund our stock repurchase program. See further discussion of these items below. At January 31, 2013 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $ 2,365.4 million and net accounts receivable of $ 495.1 million . In December 2012, we issued $ 400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.95% senior notes due December 15, 2017 and $ 350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.6% senior notes due December 15, 2022 , (collectively, the "Senior Notes"). In addition, we have a line of credit facility that permits unsecured short-term borrowings of up to $ 400.0 million . This line of credit facility was entered into in May 2011 and expires in 2016 . During fiscal 2013 , we borrowed $110.0 million under the credit facility. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, we re-paid the outstanding balance on our credit facility with a portion of the 47 Table of Contents net proceeds from the sale of the Senior Notes issued in December 2012. Borrowings under the credit facility and the remaining net proceeds from the offering of the Senior Notes are available for general corporate purposes. Our cash and cash equivalents are held by diversified financial institutions globally. Our primary commercial banking relationship is with Citibank and its global affiliates (Citibank). In addition, Citibank is one of the lead lenders and agent in the syndicate of our $ 400.0 million line of credit. The increase in our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities to $ 2,365.4 million at January 31, 2013 from $ 1,604.1 million at January 31, 2012 is principally the proceeds from the issuance of our Senior Notes and the result of cash generated from operations. These increases to cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were partially offset by cash used for repurchases of our common stock (net of stock issuance proceeds), acquisitions including business combinations and technology purchases, capital expenditures, and other investing activities. The primary source for net cash provided by operating activities of $ 559.1 million for fiscal 2013 was net income of $ 247.4 million increased by the effect of non-cash expenses totaling $ 284.1 million associated with depreciation, amortization, accretion and stock-based compensation. In addition, net cash flow used by changes in operating assets and liabilities was $ 10.1 million . The primary source of working capital was an increase in deferred revenue due to higher maintenance billings for fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 . The primary working capital uses of cash were increases in accounts receivable due to higher billings in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 . Our days sales outstanding in trade receivables was 74 at January 31, 2013 compared to 61 at January 31, 2012. The increase in days sales outstanding is due to higher billings in the last month of fiscal 2013 compared to the last month of fiscal 2012. At January 31, 2013 , our short-term investment portfolio had an estimated fair value of $ 342.1 million and a cost basis of $ 337.8 million . The portfolio fair value consisted of $ 123.0 million invested in commercial paper and corporate securities, $ 83.3 million invested in U.S treasury securities, $ 79.5 million invested in U.S. government agency securities, $ 35.3 million invested in mutual funds, $ 15.1 million invested in certificates of deposit and time deposits with remaining maturities at the date of purchase greater than 90 days and less than one year, $ 4.6 million invested in municipal securities, $ 1.0 million invested in sovereign debt and $ 0.3 million invested in other short-term securities. At January 31, 2013 , $ 35.3 million of trading securities were invested in a defined set of mutual funds as directed by the participants in our Deferred Compensation Plan (see Note 6 , Deferred Compensation , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). Long-term cash requirements for items other than normal operating expenses are anticipated for the following: the acquisition of businesses, software products, or technologies complementary to our business; stock repurchases; and capital expenditures, including the purchase and implementation of internal-use software applications. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and may, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will acquire products, technology and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. In fiscal 2013 and 2012, we increased spend on acquisitions in comparison to previous years, but our decision to acquire businesses or technology is dependent on our business needs, the availability of suitable sellers and technology, and our own financial condition. Our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances are concentrated in a few locations around the world, with substantial amounts held outside of the U.S. Certain amounts held outside the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. (subject to local law restrictions), but under current U.S. tax law, could be subject to U.S. income taxes less applicable foreign tax credits. We have provided for the U.S. income tax liability on foreign earnings, except for foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside the U.S. Our intent is that amounts related to foreign earnings permanently reinvested outside the U.S. will remain outside the U.S. and we will meet our U.S. liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. We regularly review our capital structure and consider a variety of potential financing alternatives and planning strategies to ensure we have the proper liquidity available in the locations in which it is needed. Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may decline in fiscal 2013 in the event of a weakening of the global economy or changes in our planned cash outlay. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part I , Item 1A titled Risk Factors . However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations 48 Table of Contents and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our existing credit facility at March 18, 2013 is $ 400.0 million of which we have no amounts outstanding. This credit facility is available for working capital and general corporate purposes. In addition, as of March 18, 2013 , we have $ 750.0 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes outstanding. Our revenue, earnings, cash flows, receivables and payables are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our risk management strategy uses foreign currency contracts to manage our exposure to foreign currency volatility that exists as part of our ongoing business operations. We use hedge contracts, such as cash flow hedges. to reduce the exchange rate impact on a portion of the net revenue or operating expense of certain anticipated transactions. In addition, we use hedge contracts, such as balance sheet hedges, to reduce the exchange rate risk associated primarily with foreign currency denominated receivables and payables. As of January 31, 2013 and 2012 , we had open cash flow and balance sheet related hedge contracts with future settlements within one to twelve months. Contracts were primarily denominated in euros, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, British pounds, Canadian dollars, and Australian dollars. We do not enter into any foreign exchange derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The notional amount of our option and forward contracts was $ 438.2 million and $ 494.7 million at January 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant financial contractual obligations at January 31, 2013 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. Total Fiscal 2014 Fiscal Years 2015-2016 Fiscal Years 2017-2018 Thereafter (in millions) Notes $ 883.8 $ 20.4 $ 40.8 $ 433.9 $ 388.7 Operating lease obligations 289.3 58.9 98.4 68.8 63.2 Purchase obligations 48.7 44.7 4.0 Deferred compensation obligations 35.3 3.9 8.9 4.0 18.5 Pension obligations 19.0 2.3 4.2 4.1 8.4 Other obligations (1) 38.2 15.7 13.2 6.1 3.2 Total (2) $ 1,314.3 $ 145.9 $ 169.5 $ 516.9 $ 482.0 ____________________ (1) Other obligations include future sabbatical obligations and asset retirement obligations. (2) This table generally excludes amounts already recorded on the balance sheet as current liabilities, certain purchase obligations as discussed below, long term deferred revenue and amounts related to income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions, since we cannot predict with reasonable reliability the timing of cash settlements to the respective taxing authorities (see Note 4 , Income Taxes to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Notes consist of senior notes issued in December 2012. The notes consisted of $ 400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.95% senior notes due December 15, 2017 notes and $ 350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.6% senior notes due December 15, 2022 . Operating lease obligations consist primarily of obligations for facilities, net of sublease income, computer equipment and other equipment leases. Purchase obligations are contractual obligations for purchase of goods or services and are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding on Autodesk and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations relate primarily to hosting services agreements, IT infrastructure costs, and marketing costs. Deferred compensation obligations relate to amounts held in a rabbi trust under our non-qualified deferred compensation plan. See Note 6 , Deferred Compensation , in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this plan. Pension obligations relate to our obligations for pension plans outside of the U.S. See Note 14 , Retirement Benefit Plans , in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding these obligations. 49 Table of Contents Purchase orders or contracts for the purchase of supplies and other goods and services are not included in the table above. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current procurement or development needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within short time horizons. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of supplies or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for three months. In addition, we have certain software royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. We provide indemnifications of varying scopes and certain guarantees, including limited product warranties. Historically, costs related to these warranties and indemnifications have not been significant, but because potential future costs are highly variable, we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these guarantees on our future results of operations. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Autodesk's stock repurchase program is largely to help offset the dilution from the issuance of stock under our employee stock plans and for such other purposes as may be in the interests of Autodesk and its stockholders, and has the effect of returning excess cash generated from our business to stockholders. The number of shares acquired and the timing of the purchases are based on several factors, including general market conditions, the volume of employee stock option exercises, stock issuance, the trading price of our common stock, cash on hand and available in the U.S., and company defined trading windows. During the three and twelve months ended January 31, 2013 , we repurchased 2.6 million and 12.5 million shares of our common stock, respectively. At January 31, 2013 , 32.2 million shares remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorizations. This program does not have a fixed expiration date. See Note 9 , Stockholders' Equity , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 31, 2013 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements other than operating leases, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.