ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Part I, Item 2 of this Quarterly Report) (MD&A) summarizes (and is intended to help the reader understand) the significant factors affecting the consolidated operating results, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows of our Company as of and for the periods presented below. The MD&A should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 (our Annual Report) and our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. First Quarter 2024 Business Highlights Total annual recurring revenue (ARR) increased 23% year-over-year to $274.5 million as of March 31, 2024; Total revenue increased 25% year-over-year to $74.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024; SaaS revenue increased 44% year-over-year to $51.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024; Added three new FedRAMP (moderate) Authorized products to the more than 20 that have achieved this certification to support the US Public Sector; also achieved compliance with HITRUST CSF v11.0.1 for the AvePoint Confidence Platform, supporting the global healthcare industry and evolving its existing SOC 2 Type II certifications; and Announced new analytical capabilities of the Companys tyGraph product that enable customers to identify areas of high collaboration within the organization and pinpoint for readiness for Copilot for Microsoft 365. Overview AvePoint provides a cloud-native data management software platform that organizations rely on to manage and protect critical data, optimize IT operations, achieve meaningful cost savings, and efficiently secure the digital workplace. Companies around the world have adopted a hybrid work model, and they are now tasked with delivering a seamless and secure workplace experience for knowledge workers, centered around an extensive portfolio of Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) solutions and productivity applications. The adoption of this portfolio of solutions is a substantial and ongoing challenge for most organizations, which for decades had used only a small number of multi-purpose on-premises applications to drive business outcomes. However, to deliver an efficient digital workplace today, companies must manage this range of applications and the associated explosive growth and sprawl of critical data with a platform offering that is well governed, fit for purpose, easy to use and built on automation. In addition, many organizations are beginning to realize the potential of generative artificial intelligence (AI) to drive competitive advantage and value creation, including (1) extracting greater value from complex datasets, (2) making more informed business decisions, (3) reducing employee workloads, and (4) improving the overall customer experience. While these data-driven improvements are expected to lead to stronger revenue growth and operational efficiency, successfully leveraging this new technology is in turn dependent on first addressing data management challenges that all organizations face. Specifically, for AI-driven projects to succeed, companies must apply robust strategies across the data estate to manage the information lifecycle, properly govern and secure their data, and ensure its compliance. These are the core business problems that AvePoint has been solving for more than two decades, and why we believe AvePoint is well positioned to be a key enabler of generative AI adoption within enterprises in the coming years. AvePoints Confidence Platform empowers organizations of all sizes, in all regions, and across all industries to optimize and secure the solutions that most commonly establish and underpin the digital workplace. As our customers seek to rapidly reduce costs, improve productivity and make more informed business decisions, they depend on our platform for data-driven insights, critical business intelligence and ongoing operational value through automation. 28 Table of Contents Part I Item 2 Key Business Metric March 31, 2024 2023 Total ARR ($ in mil) $ 274.5 $ 222.4 Annual Recurring Revenue We calculate our ARR at the end of a particular period as the annualized sum of contractually obligated Annual Contract Value (ACV) from SaaS, term license and support, and maintenance revenue sources from all active customers. As of March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, total ARR was $274.5 million and $222.4 million, respectively, representing growth of 23%. Growth in ARR is driven by both new business and the expansion of existing business. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue and is not intended to be combined with or replace these items. ARR is not a forecast of future revenue, and the active contracts at the end of a reporting period used in calculating ARR may or may not be extended or renewed by our customers. 29 Table of Contents Part I Item 2 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from four primary sources: SaaS, term license and support, services, and maintenance. SaaS revenues are generated from our cloud-based solutions. Term license and support revenues are generated from the sales of on-premise or hybrid licenses, which include a distinct support component. Both SaaS and term license and support revenues are primarily billed annually. SaaS and term license and support are generally sold per user license or based upon the amount of data protected. SaaS revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the contract. For term license and support revenues, the license component is generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use, and the support component is recognized ratably over the term of the contract. Services revenue includes revenue generated from implementation, training, consulting, license customization and managed services. These revenues are recognized by applying a measure of progress, such as labor hours, to determine the percentage of completion of each contract. These offerings are not inherently recurring in nature and as such are subject to more period-to-period volatility than other elements of our business. Services revenue from managed services are recognized ratably or on a straight-line basis over the contract term. Maintenance revenue is a result of selling on-going support for legacy perpetual licenses. It also includes recurring professional services such as technical account management. Maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance agreement, which is typically one year. Cost of Revenue Cost of SaaS and cost of term license and support consists of all direct costs to deliver and support our SaaS and term license and support products, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and related expenses, overhead, third-party hosting fees related to our cloud services, depreciation and amortization. We recognize these expenses as they are incurred. We expect that these costs will increase in absolute dollars but may fluctuate as a percentage of SaaS and term license and support revenue from period to period. Cost of maintenance consists of all direct costs to support our legacy perpetual license products, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and related expenses, overhead, depreciation and amortization. We recognize these expenses as they are incurred. We expect that cost of maintenance revenue will decrease in absolute dollars as maintenance revenue declines but may fluctuate as a percentage of maintenance revenue. Cost of services consists of salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and related expenses for our services organization, overhead, IT necessary to provide services for our customers, depreciation and amortization. We recognize these expenses as they are incurred. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit is revenue less cost of revenue, and gross margin is gross profit as a percentage of revenue. Gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including the mix of our revenue, the costs associated with third-party cloud-based hosting services for our cloud-based subscriptions, and the extent to which we expand our customer support and services organizations. We expect that our gross margin will fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of these various factors but should increase in the long term as SaaS revenue continues to increase as a percentage of total revenue. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses for sales, marketing and customer success personnel, stock-based compensation expense, sales commissions, marketing programs, travel-related expenses, overhead costs, depreciation and amortization. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on creating sales leads and establishing and promoting our brand. Incremental sales commissions for new customer contracts are deferred and amortized ratably over the estimated period of our relationship with such customers. We plan to continue our investment in sales and marketing by hiring additional sales and marketing personnel, executing our go-to-market strategy globally, and building our brand awareness. 30 Table of Contents Part I Item 2 General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses for finance, legal and compliance, human resources, and IT personnel, as well as stock-based compensation expense, external professional services, overhead costs, other administrative functions, depreciation and amortization. Our general and administrative expenses have increased as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, and increased expenses for insurance, investor relations, and professional services. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses incurred for our engineering and product and design teams, as well as stock-based compensation expense, overhead costs, depreciation and amortization. We have a geographically dispersed research and development presence in the United States, China, Singapore and Vietnam. We believe this provides a strategic advantage, allowing us to invest efficiently in both new product development and increasing our existing product capabilities. We believe delivering expanding product functionality is critical to enhancing the success of existing customers while new product development further reinforces our breadth of software solutions. Other Income, net Other income, net consists primarily of fair value adjustments on earn-out and warrant liabilities, realized gain/loss for securities, and of foreign currency remeasurement gains/losses. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions. The foreign jurisdictions in which we operate have different statutory tax rates than those of the United States. Accordingly, our effective tax rate could be affected by the relative proportion of foreign to domestic income, use of foreign tax credits, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, applicability of any valuation allowances, and changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate. 31 Table of Contents Part I Item 2 Results of Operations The below period-to-period comparisons of operating results are not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 Revenue The components of AvePoints revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue: SaaS $ 51,311 $ 35,512 $ 15,799 44.5 % Term license and support 10,005 10,904 (899 ) (8.2 )% Services 10,481 9,747 734 7.5 % Maintenance 2,737 3,409 (672 ) (19.7 )% Total revenue $ 74,534 $ 59,572 $ 14,962 25.1 % Total revenue increased 25.1% to $74.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily as a result of an increase in SaaS revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, SaaS revenue increased 44.5% to $51.3 million, as we saw strong customer demand for this offering. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, SaaS revenues represented 69% of total revenue, up from 60% of total revenue in the prior year. The increase in SaaS revenue was partially offset by an expected decrease in both term license and support and maintenance revenue. Services revenue is expected to fluctuate as the offerings are not inherently recurring in nature. Additionally, maintenance revenue is expected to continue declining as we have shifted away from the sale of perpetual licenses and towards SaaS and term licenses. Without perpetual license sales, there will be limited opportunities to sell maintenance contracts to new customers. Existing customers have and will continue to transition to SaaS and term licenses, which will continue the decline in maintenance revenue. Revenue by geographic region for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 was as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) North America $ 29,895 $ 24,436 $ 5,459 22.3 % EMEA 22,806 19,488 3,318 17.0 % APAC 21,833 15,648 6,185 39.5 % Total $ 74,534 $ 59,572 $ 14,962 25.1 % For the three months ended March 31, 2024, North America revenue increased 22.3% to $29.9 million, driven by a 41.9%, or $6.8 million, increase in SaaS revenue, partially offset by a combined $1.3 million decrease in term license and support, services, and maintenance revenues. EMEA revenues increased 17.0% to $22.8 million, driven by a 46.5%, or $5.9 million, increase in SaaS revenue, partially offset by a combined $2.6 million decrease in term license and support, services and maintenance revenues. APAC revenues increased 39.5% to $21.8 million, driven by a 47.0%, or $3.2 million, increase in SaaS revenue, a 36.7%, or $2.3 million, increase in services revenue, a 72.7%, or $0.9 million, increase in term license and support revenue, partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in maintenance revenues. 32 Table of Contents Part I Item 2 Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Cost of revenue, gross profit, and gross margin during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue: SaaS $ 9,770 $ 7,895 $ 1,875 23.7 % Term license and support 416 461 (45 ) (9.8 )% Services 10,073 9,351 722 7.7 % Maintenance 183 183 0.0 % Total cost of revenue $ 20,442 $ 17,890 $ 2,552 14.3 % Gross profit 54,092 41,682 12,410 29.8 % Gross margin 72.6 % 70.0 % GAAP cost of revenue $ 20,442 $ 17,890 $ 2,552 14.3 % Stock-based compensation expense (871 ) (670 ) (201 ) 30.0 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets (241 ) (242 ) 1 (0.4 )% Non-GAAP cost of revenue $ 19,330 $ 16,978 $ 2,352 13.9 % Non-GAAP gross profit 55,204 42,594 12,610 29.6 % Non-GAAP gross margin 74.1 % 71.5 % Cost of revenue increased 14.3% to $20.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily driven by a $1.7 million increase in personnel costs and a $1.2 million increase from higher aggregate hosting costs resulting from increased SaaS revenue. 33 Table of Contents Part I Item 2 Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 29,939 $ 26,851 $ 3,088 11.5 % Percentage of revenue 40.2 % 45.1 % GAAP sales and marketing $ 29,939 $ 26,851 $ 3,088 11.5 % Stock-based compensation expense (2,284 ) (2,201 ) (83 ) 3.8 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets (112 ) (157 ) 45 (28.7 )% Non-GAAP sales and marketing $ 27,543 $ 24,493 $ 3,050 12.5 % Non-GAAP percentage of revenue 37.0 % 41.1 % Sales and marketing expenses increased 11.5% to $29.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily driven by a $3.0 million increase in personnel costs. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 16,868 $ 14,648 $ 2,220 15.2 % Percentage of revenue 22.6 % 24.6 % GAAP general and administrative $ 16,868 $ 14,648 $ 2,220 15.2 % Stock-based compensation expense (4,967 ) (4,382 ) (585 ) 13.4 % Non-GAAP general and administrative $ 11,901 $ 10,266 $ 1,635 15.9 % Non-GAAP percentage of revenue 16.0 % 17.2 % General and administrative expenses increased 15.2% to $16.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was primarily driven by a $1.4 million increase in personnel costs and a $0.4 million increase in software expense. 34 Table of Contents Part I Item 2 Research and Development Research and development expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 10,486 $ 9,015 $ 1,471 16.3 % Percentage of revenue 14.1 % 15.1 % GAAP research and development $ 10,486 $ 9,015 $ 1,471 16.3 % Stock-based compensation expense (1,336 ) (851 ) (485 ) 57.0 % Non-GAAP research and development $ 9,150 $ 8,164 $ 986 12.1 % Non-GAAP percentage of revenue 12.3 % 13.7 % Research and development expenses increased 16.3% to $10.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 , primarily driven by a $1.6 million increase in personnel costs. Income Tax Provision Income tax expense during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 was as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Income tax expense $ 2,157 $ 1,978 $ 179 9.0 % AvePoints income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $2.2 million, as compared to a tax expense of $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The effective tax rate was 1,062.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to (27.5)% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The change in effective tax rates was primarily due to the mix of pre-tax income (loss) results by jurisdictions taxed at different rates, certain jurisdictions with separate tax expense calculated, impact of foreign inclusions, stock-based compensation, and changes in valuation allowance. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, the Company has considered all available positive and negative evidence including its historical levels of income, expectations of future taxable income, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and ongoing tax planning strategies. If in the future, the Company determines it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized, the Company may set up a valuation allowance, which may result in income tax expense in the Companys condensed consolidated statements of operations and condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive loss. Certain Non-GAAP Financial Measures We believe that, in addition to our financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, non-GAAP operating income (loss) and non-GAAP operating margin are useful in evaluating our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 35 Table of Contents Part I Item 2 Non-GAAP Operating Income (loss) and Non-GAAP Operating Margin Non-GAAP operating income (loss) and non-GAAP operating margin are non-GAAP financial measures that our management uses to assess our overall performance. We define non-GAAP operating income (loss) as GAAP operating income (loss) plus stock-based compensation and the amortization of acquired intangible assets. We define non-GAAP operating margin as non-GAAP operating income divided by revenue. We believe non-GAAP operating income (loss) and non-GAAP operating margin provide our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitate period-to-period comparisons of operations, as these metrics eliminate the effects of stock-based compensation which has had historical volatility from period to period due to marked-to-market securities, and of acquired intangible assets, which are unrelated to current operations and are neither comparable to the prior period nor predictive of future results. We believe the elimination of the effect of variability caused by stock-based compensation expense and the amortization of acquired assets, both of which are non-cash expenses, provides a better representation as to the overall operating performance of the Company. We use non-GAAP financial measures (a) to evaluate our historical and prospective financial performance and trends as well as our performance relative to our peers, (b) to set and approve spending budgets, (c) to allocate resources, (d) to measure operational profitability and the accuracy of forecasting, and (e) to assess financial discipline over operational expenditures. Non-GAAP operating income (loss) and non-GAAP operating margin should not be considered as an alternative to operating income, operating margin or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP as measures of performance. Non-GAAP operating income (loss) and non-GAAP operating margin should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. The following table presents a reconciliation of (i) non-GAAP operating income (loss) from the most comparable GAAP measure, operating income, and (ii) non-GAAP operating margin from the most comparable GAAP measure, operating margin, for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands, except percentages) GAAP operating loss $ (3,201 ) $ (8,832 ) GAAP operating margin (4.3 )% (14.8 )% Add: Stock-based compensation 9,458 8,104 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 353 399 Non-GAAP operating income (loss) $ 6,610 $ (329 ) Non-GAAP operating margin 8.9 % (0.6 )% Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2024, we had $215.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and $3.8 million in short-term investments. Our short-term liquidity needs primarily include working capital for sales and marketing, research and development, and continued innovation. In addition, we extended a credit facility with a remaining commitment of $2.6 million, and committed $50.0 million to a growth equity fund. Our long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, levels of revenue, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, market acceptance of our platform, the results of business initiatives, and the timing of new product introductions. 36 Table of Contents Part I Item 2 We currently maintain a loan and security agreement (the Loan Agreement), dated as of November 3, 2023, with HSBC Bank USA, National Association, (HSBC) as lender, for a revolving line of credit of up to $30.0 million with an accordion feature that provides up to $20.0 million of additional borrowing capacity we may to draw upon at our request. The line currently bears interest at a rate equal to term SOFR plus 3.00% to 3.25% depending on the Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement). The line carries an unused fee ranging from 0.50% to 0.55% depending on the Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio. The line will mature on November 3, 2026. We are required to maintain a minimum Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement) as well as a maximum Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio, tested by HSBC each quarter. We pledged, assigned, and granted HSBC a security interest in all shares of our subsidiaries, future proceeds and assets (except for excluded assets, including material intellectual property) as a security for the performance of the loan and security agreement obligations. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, our cash flows from operating activities, and our borrowing capacity under our credit facility with HSBC are sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. In the future, we may attempt to raise additional capital through the sale of additional equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity would be dilutive to our stockholders. Additional debt financing could result in increased debt service obligations and more restrictive financial and operational covenants. Cash Flows The following table sets forth a summary of AvePoints cash flows for the periods indicated. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 7,756 $ 1,250 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (1,542 ) 862 Net cash used in financing activities (12,961 ) (690 ) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $7.8 million, reflecting AvePoints net loss of $2.0 million, adjusted for non-cash items of $11.0 million and net cash outflows of $1.3 million from changes in its operating assets and liabilities. The primary drivers of non-cash items were stock-based compensation which reflects ongoing compensation and an increase in the mark to market value of earn-out and warranty liabilities. The drivers of changes in operating assets and liabilities are seasonal in nature. These drivers are related to a decrease in accounts receivable due primarily to the timing of customer invoices and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets primarily related to prepaid insurance, a decrease in deferred revenue and a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to accrued bonuses, commissions and VAT/sales tax payable. Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $1.3 million, reflecting AvePoints net loss of $9.2 million, adjusted for non-cash items of $9.3 million and net cash inflows of $1.2 million from changes in its operating assets and liabilities. The primary drivers of non-cash items were stock-based compensation which reflects ongoing compensation partially offset by a decrease in the mark to market value of earn-out and warranty liabilities. The drivers of changes in operating assets and liabilities are seasonal in nature. These drivers are related to a decrease in accounts receivable due primarily to the timing of customer invoices and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets primarily related to prepaid insurance and offset by a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to the payment of accrued bonuses and commissions. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $1.5 million. It primarily consisted of $0.5 million of purchases of property and equipment, $0.4 million of purchases of short-term investments, and $0.4 million from the capitalization of internal use software, and partially offset by $0.2 million in the maturity of short-term investments. Net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $0.9 million. It primarily consisted of $1.6 million due to the maturity of short-term investments, partially offset by $0.3 million from the capitalization of internal use software and $0.2 million of purchases of property and equipment. 37 Table of Contents Part I Item 2 Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $13.0 million. The primary driver of cash used in financing activities was $13.7 million in repurchases of common stock under the previously announced Share Repurchase Program that authorizes us to repurchase up to $150 million of our common shares (the Share Repurchase Program), partially offset by $0.8 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $0.7 million. The primary driver of cash used in financing activities was $1.8 million in repurchases of common stock, partially offset by $1.1 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Indebtedness Credit Facility We maintain a line of credit under Loan Agreement with HSBC, as the lender. See Note 6- Line of Credit in Part I, Item 1 Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The Loan Agreement provides for a revolving line of credit of up to $30.0 million and an additional $20.0 million accordion feature for additional capital we may draw upon at our request. Borrowings under the line currently bear interest at a rate equal to term SOFR plus 3.00% to 3.25% depending on the Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement). The line carries an unused fee ranging from 0.50% to 0.55% depending on the Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio. Any proceeds of borrowings under the Loan Agreement will be used for general corporate purposes. On a consolidated basis with our subsidiaries, we are required to maintain a minimum Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio as well as a maximum Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio, tested by HSBC each quarter. Pursuant to the Loan Agreement, we pledged, assigned, and granted HSBC a security interest in all shares of our subsidiaries, future proceeds, and certain assets as security for our obligations under the Loan Agreement. Our line of credit under the Loan Agreement will mature on November 3, 2026. To date, we are in compliance with all covenants under the Loan Agreement. We have not at any time borrowed under the Loan Agreement. The description of the Loan Agreement is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the form of such agreement, a copy of which is attached as an exhibit to our Annual Report. Leasing Activities We are obligated under various non-cancelable operating leases for office space. The initial terms of the leases expire on various dates through 2030. As of March 31, 2024, the commitments related to these operating leases is $14.7 million, of which $5.8 million is due in the next twelve months. Operating Segment Information We operate in one segment. Our products and services are sold throughout the world, through direct and indirect sales channels. Our chief operating decision maker (the CODM) is our Chief Executive Officer. The CODM makes operating performance assessment and resource allocation decisions on a global basis. The CODM does not receive discrete financial information about asset allocation, expense allocation, or profitability by product or geography. See the section titled Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report) under the sub-heading Note 15 Segment Information for more information. 38 Table of Contents Part I Item 2 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We also make estimates and assumptions on the reported revenue generated and reported expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that our management believes are reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. While our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the section titled Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report), we believe the following critical accounting policies and estimates are most important to understanding and evaluating our reported financial results. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue from four primary sources: SaaS, term license and support, services, and maintenance. Many of our contracts with customers include multiple performance obligations. Judgement is required in determining whether each performance obligation is distinct. Our products and services generally do not require a significant amount of integration or interdependency; therefore, our products and services are generally not combined. We allocate the transaction price for each contract to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price (SSP) for each performance obligation within each contract. We use judgment in determining the SSP for products and services. For substantially all performance obligations except term licenses, we are able to establish the SSP based on the observable prices of products or services sold separately in comparable circumstances to similar customers. We typically establish an SSP range for our products and services which is reassessed on a periodic basis or when facts and circumstances change. Term licenses are sold only as a bundled arrangement that includes the rights to a term license and support. In determining the SSP of license and support in a term license arrangement, we utilize observable inputs and consider the value relationship between support and term license when compared to the value relationship between support and perpetual licenses, the average economic life of our products, and software renewals rates. Using a combination of the relative fair value method, or the residual value method the SSP of the performance obligations in an arrangement is allocated to each performance obligation within a sales arrangement. Company Earn-Out Shares In evaluation of the Company Earn-Out Shares and Company Earn-Out RSUs, management determined that the Company Earn-Out Shares represent derivatives to be marked to market at each reporting period, while the Company Earn-Out RSUs represent equity under ASC 718. Refer to "Note 13 Stock-Based Compensation" for more information regarding the Company Earn-Out RSUs. In order to capture the market conditions associated with the Company Earn-Out Shares, the Company applied an approach that incorporated a Monte Carlo simulation, which involved random iterations that took different future price paths over the Sponsor Earn-Out Shares contractual life based on the appropriate probability distributions. The fair value was determined by taking the average of the fair values under each Monte Carlo simulation trial. The Monte Carlo model requires highly subjective assumptions including the expected volatility of the price of our common stock, and the expected term of the earn-out shares. 39 Table of Contents Part I Item 2 Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The markets for software and cloud-based services are dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are developing new software while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. Customer preferences evolve rapidly, and choices in hardware, products, and devices can and do influence how users access services in the cloud, and in some cases, the users choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. We must continue to evolve and adapt to keep pace with this changing environment. The investments we are making in infrastructure, research and development, marketing, and geographic expansion will continue to increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. We compete for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow ones career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Additionally, demand for our software and service is correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic and currently include multiple ongoing conflicts where the outcomes and consequences are not possible to predict, but could include regional instability and geopolitical shifts, and could materially adversely affect global trade, currency exchange rates, regional economies and the global economy. These in turn could increase our costs, disrupt our supply chain, reduce our sales and earnings, impair our ability to raise additional capital when needed on acceptable terms, if at all, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our international operations provide a significant portion of our total revenues and expenses. Many of these revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, changes in foreign exchange rates may significantly affect revenue and expenses. Refer to the section titled Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. Seasonality Our quarterly revenue fluctuates and does not necessarily grow sequentially when measuring any one fiscal quarters revenue with another (e.g. comparing the fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2023 with the first fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2024). Historically, our third and fourth quarters have been our highest revenue quarters, however those results are not necessarily indicative of future quarterly revenue or full year results. Higher third and fourth quarter revenue is driven primarily by increased sales resulting from our customers fiscal year ends. Additionally, new product and service introductions (including the timing of those introductions) can significantly impact revenue. Revenue can also be affected when customers anticipate a product introduction. Our operating expenses have generally increased sequentially due to increases in personnel in connection with the expansion of our business. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements For information about recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 - Summary of Significant AccountingPolicies in Part I, Item 1 Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 40 Table of Contents Part I Item 3