ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Apex Technology Acquisition Corporation. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, references to the Sponsor refer to Apex Technology Sponsor LLC. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K/A filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on April 5, 2019 for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar Business Combination with one or more target businesses. We intend to effectuate our initial Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of our Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Placement Units that occurred simultaneously with the completion of our Initial Public Offering, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. Recent Developments On November 23, 2020, as amended on December 30, 2020, March 8, 2021 and May 18, 2021, we entered into the Business Combination Agreement with Merger Sub 1, Merger Sub 2, and AvePoint, relating to a proposed business combination transaction between us and AvePoint. Pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, Merger Sub 1 will be merged with and into AvePoint (the First Merger), with AvePoint surviving the First Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and promptly following the First Merger, AvePoint will be merged with and into Merger Sub 2 (the Second Merger), with Merger Sub 2 surviving the Second Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. 20 Table of Contents Additionally, On November 23, 2020, we entered the Subscription Agreements with the PIPE Investors pursuant to which the PIPE Investors agreed to purchase an aggregate of 14,000,000 shares of Apex Common Stock (the PIPE Shares), at a purchase price of $10.00 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $140,000,000, in one or more private placement transactions (the Private Placements). The closing of the Private Placements pursuant to the Subscription Agreements is contingent upon, among other customary closing conditions, the concurrent consummation of the Proposed Transactions. The purpose of the Private Placements is to raise additional capital for use by the combined company following the Closing. The Subscription Agreements were each subsequently amended to extend the Outside Date (as defined therein) to July 21, 2021. In May 2021, we entered into Amendment No. 1 to Warrant Agreement with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company to correct a defective provision. On July 1, 2021 (Closing Date), the Company and AvePoint consummated the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, following the approval at a special meeting of the stockholders of the Company held on June 30, 2021. On the Closing Date, the PIPE investors purchased from the Company an aggregate of 14,000,000 shares of Common Stock, for a purchase price of $10.00 per share and an aggregate purchase price of $140.0 million. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from inception to June 30, 2021 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and, following the Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our initial Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the trust account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with completing a Business Combination. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had net loss of $18,318,637, which consisted of interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $8,482, offset by a change in the fair value of the warrant liability of $13,945,650, operating costs of $4,331,469, and franchise taxes of $50,000. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, we had net income of $9,992,975, which consisted of a change in the fair value of the warrant liability of $16,226,200 and interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $40,323, offset by operating costs of $6,173,548 and franchise taxes of $100,000. For the three months ended June 30, 2020, we had net loss of $14,365,840, which consisted of interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $131,366, offset by a change in the fair value of the warrant liability of $14,210,600, operating costs of $213,837, franchise taxes of $50,000, and provision for income taxes $22,769. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, we had net loss of $9,256,155, which consisted of interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $1,583,780, offset by a change in the fair value of the warrant liability of $9,916,600, operating costs of $408,120, and franchise taxes of $100,000, and provision for income taxes of $415,215. Liquidity and Capital Resources On September 19, 2019, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 35,000,000 Units, which included the partial exercise by the underwriters of the over-allotment option to purchase an additional 4,500,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $350,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 810,000 Placement Units to our Sponsor and Cantor at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $8,100,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Placement Units, a total of $350,000,000 was placed in the trust account. We incurred $19,806,442 in transaction costs, including $6,100,000 of underwriting fees, $13,150,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $556,442 of other offering costs. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $453,156. Net income of $9,992,975 was impacted by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $40,323, change (non-cash gain) in the fair value of the warrant liability of $16,226,200 and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which provided $5,820,393 of cash from operating activities. 21 Table of Contents For the six months ended June 30, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $593,443. Net loss of $9,256,155 was impacted by a change in the fair value of the warrant liability of $9,916,600, interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $1,583,780 and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which provided $329,892 of cash from operating activities. As of June 30, 2021, we had investments of $351,737,387 held in the Trust Account. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. During the six months ended June 30, 2021, we withdrew $161,257 of interest earned on the Trust Account to pay its franchise taxes. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the trust account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the trust account (less deferred underwriting commissions) to complete our initial Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our initial Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the trust account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. As of June 30, 2021, we had cash of $205,729 held outside of the Trust Account. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into units identical to the Placement Units, at a price of $10.00 per unit at the option of the lender. There are no borrowings outstanding as of June 30, 2021. As of February 3, 2021, we issued a Convertible Promissory Note to the Sponsor. The Convertible Promissory Note is non-interest bearing and payable on the earlier of the date on which we consummate a Business Combination or the date that our winding up is effective. If we do not consummate a Business Combination, we may use a portion of any funds held outside the Trust Account to repay the Convertible Promissory Note; however, no proceeds from the Trust Account may be used for such repayment. Up to $300,000 of the Convertible Promissory Note may be converted into units at a price of $10.00 per unit at the option of the Sponsor. The units would be identical to the Placement Units. As of June 30, 2021, the outstanding balance under the Convertible Promissory Note amounted to an aggregate of $300,000. 22 Table of Contents We do not believe we will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our initial Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our Public Shares upon consummation of our initial Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such initial Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our initial Business Combination. If we are unable to complete our initial Business Combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the trust account. In addition, following our initial Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of June 30, 2021. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of our Sponsor a monthly fee of $15,000 for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support to us. We began incurring these fees on September 16, 2019 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the initial Business Combination and our liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $13,150,000. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the trust account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. 23 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Warrant Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of our financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to ASC 480 and ASC 815. We account for warrants as either equity-classified or liability-classified instruments based on an assessment of the warrants specific terms and applicable authoritative guidance in ASC 480 and ASC 815. The assessment considers whether the warrants are freestanding financial instruments pursuant to ASC 480, meet the definition of a liability pursuant to ASC 480, and whether the warrants meet all of the requirements for equity classification under ASC 815, including whether the warrants are indexed to the Companys own common shares and whether the warrant holders could potentially require net cash settlement in a circumstance outside of the Companys control, among other conditions for equity classification. This assessment, which requires the use of professional judgment, is conducted at the time of warrant issuance and as of each subsequent quarterly period end date while the warrants are outstanding. For issued or modified warrants that meet all of the criteria for equity classification, the warrants are required to be recorded as a component of additional paid-in capital at the time of issuance. For issued or modified warrants that do not meet all the criteria for equity classification, the warrants are required to be recorded at their initial fair value on the date of issuance, and each balance sheet date thereafter. Changes in the estimated fair value of the warrants are recognized as a non-cash gain or loss on the statements of operations. Class A Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Shares of Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption are classified as a liability instrument and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that feature redemption rights that is either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our Class A common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our balance sheets. Net Income (Loss) per Common Share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Net income (loss) per common share, basic and diluted for Class A redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account, net of applicable taxes, by the weighted average number of shares of Class A redeemable common stock outstanding for the periods presented. Net income (loss) per common share, basic and diluted for Class B non-redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing net income (loss) less income attributable to Class A redeemable common stock, by the weighted average number of shares of Class A and Class B non-redeemable common stock outstanding for the periods presented. 24 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Standards In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. ASU 2020-06 removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception and it also simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. ASU 2020-06 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. We adopted ASU 2020-06 effective as of January 1, 2021. The adoption of ASU 2020-06 did not have an impact on our financial statements. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements.