ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Apex Technology Acquisition Corporation. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, references to the Sponsor refer to Apex Technology Sponsor LLC. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys annual report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on April 5, 2019 for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar Business Combination with one or more target businesses. We intend to effectuate our initial Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of our Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Placement Units that occurred simultaneously with the completion of our Initial Public Offering, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. The issuance of additional shares in connection with an initial Business Combination to the owners of the target or other investors: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in our Initial Public Offering, which dilution would increase if the anti-dilution provisions in the Class B common stock resulted in the issuance of Class A shares on a greater than one-to-one basis upon conversion of the Class B common stock; may subordinate the rights of holders of our common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; could cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of our common stock is issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the stock ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Units, Class A common stock and/or warrants. Similarly, if we issue debt securities or otherwise incur significant debt to bank or other lenders or the owners of a target, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial Business Combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; 15 our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, our ability to pay expenses, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, and fund other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, and execution of our strategy; and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from inception to June 30, 2020 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and, following the Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our initial Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the trust account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with completing a Business Combination. For the three months June 30, 2020, we had a net loss of $155,240, which consists of operating costs of $213,837, franchise taxes of $50,000 and a provision for income taxes of $22,769, offset by interest income on marketable securities held in the trust account of $131,366. For the six months June 30, 2020, we had a net income of $660,445, which consists of interest income on marketable securities held in the trust account of $1,583,780, offset by operating costs of $408,120, franchise taxes of $100,000 and a provision for income taxes of $415,215. For the period from April 5, 2019 (inception) through June 30, 2019, we had a net loss of $1,000, which consists formation costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources On September 19, 2019, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 35,000,000 Units, which included the partial exercise by the underwriters of the over-allotment option to purchase an additional 4,500,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $350,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 810,000 Placement Units to our Sponsor and Cantor at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $8,100,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Placement Units, a total of $350,000,000 was placed in the trust account. We incurred $19,806,442 in transaction costs, including $6,100,000 of underwriting fees, $13,150,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $556,442 of other offering costs. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $593,443. Net income of $660,445 was offset by interest earned on marketable securities held in the trust account of $1,583,780 and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which provided $329,892 of cash from operating activities. 16 As of June 30, 2020, we had investments of $353,184,803 held in the trust account. Interest income on the balance in the trust account may be used by us to pay taxes. During the six months ended June 30, 2020, we withdrew $208,140 of interest earned on the trust account to pay for our franchise tax obligations. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the trust account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the trust account (less deferred underwriting commissions) to complete our initial Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our initial Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the trust account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. As of June 30, 2020, we had cash of $609,507 held outside of the trust account. We intend to use the funds held outside the trust account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the trust account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our trust account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into units identical to the Placement Units, at a price of $10.00 per unit at the option of the lender. We do not believe we will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our initial Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our Public Shares upon consummation of our initial Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such initial Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our initial Business Combination. If we are unable to complete our initial Business Combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the trust account. In addition, following our initial Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of June 30, 2020. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of our Sponsor a monthly fee of $15,000 for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support to us. We began incurring these fees on September 16, 2019 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the initial Business Combination and our liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $13,150,000. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the trust account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have not identified any critical accounting policies. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements. 17