Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our B2 Cloud Storage revenue grew by 46% during the year ended December 31, 2022 and our Computer Backup cloud service revenue grew by 17% during the year ended December 31, 2022. Our ecosystem of partnersincluding technology and developer partners, channel partners, and MSPshelps us expand our platform in existing and new markets. Our partners leverage our cloud services to provide storage solutions to their customers or our mutual customers and in turn, we are able to expand our use cases and overall reach. Technology and Developer Partners. Our platform, alongside the platforms of our technology and developer partners, enables software developers to efficiently build their applications and provides a cloud storage destination for partners whose products require storage to serve their customers. Partners providing software, hardware, and SaaS services to perform backups, synchronize data, manage media, and address other use cases either select our Storage Cloud for the underlying data storage, or offer it as a choice to their customers. Channel Partners. We sell B2 Cloud Storage to resellers at a discounted rate. Resellers then market and sell B2 Cloud Storage individually or as part of broader solutions to businesses and organizations. The channel provides greater access to markets with specialty needs in the purchasing process, like state and local governments and educational institutions. Managed Service Providers (MSP). Our platform enables MSP partners to store data for backups, archives, hybrid cloud setups, ransomware protection, and otherwise manage their clients data. MSPs provide critical IT solutions for mid-market organizations who often lack the resources to do so themselves. We believe these providers are drawn to our solutions due to our support of the breadth of their offerings, competitive pricing which helps MSPs with their own margin profile, and ease of use. The markets addressed by our platform include Public Cloud Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) storage as well as Data-Protection-as-a-Service (DPaaS). According to IDC forecasts, the worldwide market for Public Cloud IaaS Storage is expected to grow to $91.0 billion by 2025. Additionally, according to IDC, the worldwide market for DPaaS is expected to grow to $18.4 billion by 2025. We believe our efficient go-to-market and focus on ease of use are particularly suited to selling to and serving the needs of mid-market businesses (defined as businesses and organizations with 10 to 999 employees). According to our analysis of IDC data, mid-market businesses are expected to represent approximately 60% of worldwide IaaS spending throughout the forecast period (2021 to 2025). We believe this ratio serves as a reasonable proxy for spending across both markets. Applying this ratio to the Public Cloud IaaS Storage market yields a mid-market opportunity growing to $54.6 billion in 2025. Applying the same ratio to the DPaaS market yields a mid-market opportunity growing to $11.0 billion by 2025. Our Platform and Cloud Services Our Platform: Backblaze Storage Cloud The Backblaze Storage Cloud provides the core platform for our cloud services and is designed to be durable, available, scalable, secure, performant and predictive. This storage cloud organizes, safeguards, and keeps ov er 500 billion files available on demand and is designed to handle many more in the future. The key enabler of the Backblaze Storage Cloud is the software that runs it, which contains millions of lines of code that our software engineering team has written and continually improved since our Companys founding. The ability to manage an ever-larger amount of data across ever-larger hard drives while maintaining data availability and durability continues to be highly complex. This web-scale software layer receives, stores, and delivers data for customers across the globe. Our code achieves this for billions of files under management by intelligently allocating storage locations in line with capacity and demand. Alongside these core processes, the software layer also manages load balancing, caching, data compression, deletion, billing, as well as numerous other essential functions for hundreds of thousands of customers. Generally weekly code updates regularly enhance these functions. Our vault architecture creates redundancy for the storage of customer data using proprietary and other algorithms. Our software splits each uploaded customer file into several data parts, adds multiple redundant parts, and stores these parts across discrete hard drives in different servers in a data center. As a result, even if a few of the parts are entirely lost or 3 Table of Contents offline, we are able to reconstruct the customer data from the remaining parts for durability. Multiple vaults are grouped together to form one cluster, and one or more clusters are organized into a region. Our globally distributed storage platform also offers customers multi-region geographic choice for their datacurrently between East and West Coast regions in the United States and Europeproviding flexibility for different needs including geopolitical considerations, regulatory requirements, and performance optimization. This software manages our global physical infrastructure of more than 250,000 hard drives and one terabit per second (one million megabits per second) of network capacity across multiple data centers. Our systems also manage the automation, monitoring, and security of this infrastructure. As our customers data grows, and our total revenue with it, we continuously and smoothly deploy additional infrastructure. A significant amount of our employees are either software engineers that develop and improve the software that runs our Storage Cloud or Cloud Operations employees that specialize in network operations, site reliability engineering, technical operations, and supply chain, which operate our software and systems to deliver our infrastructure as a service and our cloud services. Our Cloud Service Offerings Backblaze B2 Cloud Storage. B2 Cloud Storage provides customers direct access to our Storage Cloud to store, use and protect data. Users can access the platform through industry standard and native application programming interfaces (APIs), software development kits (SDKs), our web interface, or hundreds of third-party integrations. The wide range of options for accessing B2 Cloud Storage allows anyone to use it, including developers and partners who can integrate storage capabilities into their technology stack or build their own solutions on top of our platform. Customers also strategically tier backups of their core data systems to B2 Cloud Storage, including on-premises and virtual machine servers and other high-capacity storage devices. Customers leverage B2 Cloud Storage for a wide range of use cases, including public, hybrid and multi-cloud data storage; application development and DevOps; content delivery and edge computing; security and ransomware protection; media management; backup, archive and tape replacement; repository for analytics, artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning; and Internet of Things (e.g., storing data for surveillance systems, autonomous vehicles, and smart devices) . Backblaze Computer Backup. Our Computer Backup cloud service backs up laptops, desktops, and external hard drives in a continuous and automated fashion. Whether for home computers or a business full fleet of machines, customers can back up a virtually unlimited number of files without size or speed constraints. This cloud service includes a lightweight agent that runs locally on each end users computer, continuously searching for new and changed files in a manner unobtrusive to the user. When a new or changed file is detected, the altered data is backed up and sent to the Backblaze Storage Cloud. Once there, it is accessible to the end user or business administrator responsible for managing the account. In the event of data loss, customers can restore all or portions of their backed-up data. Customers leverage Computer Backup for many different use cases, including Mac and PC backup; ransomware protection; theft and loss recovery; data archiving; organization and MSP-level management; and remote access. Customers Our customers consist of a wide range of organizations and businessesparticularly mid-market organizationsand consumers. As of December 31, 2022, we had over 500,000 customers in over 175 countries, including approximately 436,000 customers using our Computer Backup cloud services solution and approximately 87,000 customers using our B2 Cloud Storage solution (approximately 16,000 custo mers use both our B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup solutions). Our customers span a range of industries, including a broad range of businesses, MSPs, developers, media innovators, creative agencies, academic institutions, government agencies, research institutes, gaming companies, and individuals. Our customer base is highly diversified, with no single customer accounting for more than 1% of our total revenue in 2022 or 2021. Sales and Marketing We believe we have an efficient go-to-market model that is built on a self-serve selling motion. Prospective customers find us through a number of channels including our website, partners, and brand advocates. We have fostered community engagement through the content shared on our blog. In addition to generating customers, our content generation efforts have contributed to building a community of thousands of partners. Our technology and developer, channel, and MSP partners expand use cases and attract customers, thereby increasing the usage of our platform. 4 Table of Contents Our marketing efforts focus on establishing our brand, generating awareness, creating leads, and cultivating the Backblaze community. The marketing team consists primarily of product marketing, corporate communications and publishing, social media, growth marketing, and website teams. We leverage both online and offline marketing channels such as blogs, events and trade shows, seminars and webinars, whitepapers, case studies, search engines, and email marketing. We complement our self-serve customer acquisition model with a growing inside sales team that is focused on a low-touch sales assisted model that supports our larger customers if the need arises. Among other things, our sales and marketing teams focus on inbound inquiries, outbound prospecting targeting specific use cases, and volume expansion of our self-serve customers. We have plans to increase our investment in our sales and marketing capabilities to capitalize on our large and global market opportunity. We have also stood up a Developer Evangelism team to support our focus on supporting developers and applications storage use cases, and scaled up our partnerships team to grow our technology and channel partnership opportunity. Research and Development We invest substantial resources in research and development. We have an internal technology roadmap to introduce new features and functionality to our platform. Substantially all of our R&D organization, which makes up approximately one-third of our company, is focused on software development. We generally have a continuous product release cycle and we typically release updates on a weekly basis. We establish priorities for our organization by collaborating closely with our customers, community, and employees. Competition Our current primary competitors generally fall into the following categories: diversified public cloud vendors, such as Amazon.com, Inc. through Amazon Web Services, Alphabet Inc. through Google Cloud Platform, and Microsoft Corporation through Azure; certain smaller cloud storage competitors; and legacy on-premises storage vendors such as Dell EMC. While we compete primarily based on offering services that are significantly easier to use and lower cost, but also through continued innovation; key platform features; availability, durability, scalability, and performance; brand awareness and reputation; transparency; customer support; independence; security; interoperability; partner ecosystem; and capabilities for configurability and APIs, we believe we stand out by offering a substantially easier to use product and significantly lower pricing. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our technology platform and cloud services, defend and enforce our intellectual property rights, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets, and operate without infringing, misappropriating, or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others. While we do not own any patents, we protect our intellectual property through a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, and domain names where appropriate. In addition, we control access to our proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with third parties, such as service providers, vendors, individuals, and entities that may be exploring a business relationship with us. We own two registered trademarks in the United States for the word Backblaze and the Backblaze logo. Policing unauthorized use of our technology and intellectual property rights is difficult. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop applications with the same functionality as our offerings. In addition, while we have confidence in the measures we take to protect and preserve our trade secrets, they may be inadequate and can be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for violations of such measures. Furthermore, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. We may also be subject to third-party infringement claims from our competitors or non-practicing entities, many of these parties may have more significant resources and funding than we have. For more information regarding risks related to intellectual property, please see Risk FactorsRisks Related to Intellectual Property. 5 Table of Contents Employees and Human Capital We believe we have an aligned and engaged workforce with relatively limited employee turnover. As of December 31, 2022, we had 393 full-time employees, including a net of 123 new full-time employees hired during 2022. A significant amount of our employees are based out of our San Mateo, California headquarters. However, since March 2020 and throughout all of 2021, e mployees generally worked remotely due to the COVI D pandemic. Our offices reopened during 2022 and most employees located in proximity to our headquarters office location utilize a hybrid approach which includes a mixture of working in the office and working remotely from home. Culture is very important at Backblaze and we recognize that employees are our greatest asset. We recognize and value the importance of diversity, equity and inclusion and have a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee that is comprised of a diverse group of employees and management. The committee is committed to cultivating and nurturing an inclusive and diverse environment at Backblaze by providing unique opportunities that will bring forth and promote the variety of cultures, backgrounds and circumstances that make up the Backblaze team while surpassing basic tolerance with awareness, acceptance and action. No employees are represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment by us. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good, as evidenced by our Glassdoor 4.8/5.0 rating, 95% CEO Approval, and 95% Recommend to a Friend ratings as of February 1, 2023. Facilities Our principal executive offices are located in San Mateo, California. We lease data center facilities in California, Arizona, Virginia, and Amsterdam, the Netherlands. We believe that our properties are generally suitable to meet our needs for the foreseeable future. In addition, to the extent we require additional space in the future, we believe that it would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware in 2007 under the name Backblaze, Inc. We completed our initial public offering in November 2021 and our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the symbol BLZE. Our principal executive offices are located at 500 Ben Franklin Ct, San Mateo, CA 94401 and our telephone number is (650) 352-3738. Our website address is www.backblaze.com. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Such reports and other information filed or furnished by us with the SEC are available free of charge on our website at https://ir.backblaze.com/ as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are available on the SECs website. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The information contained on the websites referenced in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this filing. Further, our references to website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only. Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our financial statements and the accompanying notes, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of these risks actually occur, it may materially harm our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and the market price of our Class A Common Stock. 6 Table of Contents Risk Factors Summary Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our Class A common stock speculative or risky. Importantly, this summary does not address all of the risks that we face. Our ability to execute our business strategy is subject to numerous risks, as more fully described in the section titled Risk Factors immediately following this summary. These risks include, among others: We have a history of cumulative losses, and we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future. The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results would be harmed. Any significant disruption in our service or loss, or delay in availability, of our customers data, could damage our reputation and harm our business and operating results. If we are unable to maintain our brand and reputation, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. If our information technology systems, including the data of our customers stored in our systems, are breached or subject to cybersecurity attacks, our reputation and business may be harmed. If we are unable to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. If we are unable to provide successful enhancements, new features, and modifications to our cloud services, our business could be adversely affected. Material defects or errors in our software could negatively impact our business, harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, and negatively impact our ability to sell our cloud services. We rely on third-party vendors and suppliers, including data center and hard drive providers, which may have limited sources of supply, and this reliance exposes us to potential supply and service disruptions that could harm our business. Our business depends, in part, on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, and the failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could harm our business and negatively impact the value of our Class A common stock. The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with those stockholders who held our capital stock prior to the completion of our IPO, including our executive officers, employees, and directors and their affiliates, which limits your ability to influence the outcome of important transactions, including a change in control. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have a history of cumulative losses, and we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future. We incurred net losses of $51.4 million and $21.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Over our 15 years of operations, we had an accumulated deficit of $87.7 million as of December 31, 2022. We cannot guarantee that net losses in future periods will be similar to those from prior periods. We intend to continue scaling our business to increase our customer base and to meet the increasingly complex needs of our customers. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, in our sales and marketing organization to sell our cloud services around the world and in our development organization to deliver additional features and capabilities of our cloud services to address our customers evolving needs. We also expect to continue to make significant investments in our data center infrastructure and technical operations organization as we further scale our business. As a result of our continuing investments to scale our business in each of these areas, we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future or that, if we do become profitable, we will sustain profitability. 7 Table of Contents The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results would be harmed. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry for certain applications and services. Some of our competitors include cloud-based services such as those offered by Amazon.com, Inc. through Amazon Web Services, Alphabet Inc. through Google Cloud Platform, and Microsoft Corporation through Azure, and on-premises offerings such as those offered by EMC/Dell and NetApp. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater name and brand recognition; much longer operating histories; larger marketing budgets for the development, promotion and sale of their products or services; broader service offerings and capabilities; and significantly greater resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing and distribution relationships with channel partners, consultants, system integrators, and resellers. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly and effectively to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or customer requirements. Competition may intensify in the future and may also include new market entrants, including storage offerings by some of our partners. Our competitors could offer their products or services at a lower price or in some combination with other services or applications that we do not offer, which could result in pricing pressures on our business. Increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, increased customer churn, lower margins, losses, or the failure of our cloud services to achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. Any significant disruption in our service or loss, or delay in availability of our customers data, could damage our reputation and harm our business and operating results. Our brand, reputation, and ability to manage our systems; attract, retain, and serve our customers; and interface with our partners, are dependent upon the reliable performance of our platform, including our underlying technical infrastructure, as well as the systems and infrastructure of various third parties, including third-party hosted data centers that we use and internet access and infrastructure used by us and our customers and partners. Our customers rely on our platform to store and access their data, including financial records, business information, personal information, documents, media, and other important content. There are various reasons that our platform, or the systems that are used to access or support our platform, could experience a disruption in service, some of which are entirely outside of our control. For example, our facilities as well as the data centers that we use are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, earthquakes, floods, fires, war or other military conflict, including the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, terrorist attacks, cybersecurity attacks or the risk of potential cybersecurity attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures, and similar events, any of which could disrupt our service, destroy user content, or prevent us from being able to continuously back up or record changes in our users content. For example, a third party vendor that operated one of our multiple data center locations, filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in 2022. This bankruptcy matter was resolved without disruption to our normal operations, but future bankruptcies or similar events affecting our third-party hosted data center providers could result in disruptions to our Company, access to customer data may become unavailable or customer data could be lost, and it may take a significant period of time to achieve full resumption of our cloud services. Also, in response to the Russian attack on Ukraine that began in February 2022, the United States and many other countries began imposing sanctions on Russia and certain parts of Ukraine, including restrictions on the import and export of goods and services to those regions. These restrictions have also been expanded to other countries, including Belarus. Although we do not have a significant number of customers located in those regions, such actions will have some impact on our business. It is difficult to predict how long the conflict may last, how the conflict could escalate, and how the sanctions may evolve, which could cause a greater adverse impact on our business and operations. Our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities and even if we anticipate an incident, our disaster recovery plans may not be sufficient to timely and effectively address the issue. Moreover, our platform and technical infrastructure may not be adequately designed with sufficient reliability and redundancy to avoid delays or outages that could be harmful to our business. If our platform is unavailable when users attempt to access it, or if it does not load as quickly as they expect, or if data is lost, users may not use our platform as often in the future, or at all. If we are unable to maintain our brand and reputation, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. The successful promotion of our brand and our ability to maintain our reputation will depend on a number of factors, including our performance and the reliability of our cloud services; our advertising and marketing efforts, including our blog and social media presence, which have been important to building and maintaining our brand and reputation; our ability to continue to develop high-quality features and cloud services; and our ability to successfully differentiate our 8 Table of Contents cloud services from competitive products and services. Our brand promotion activities may not be successful or yield increased revenue. The promotion of our brand may require us to make substantial expenditures, particularly as our markets become more competitive and we expand into new markets or offer additional features. Expenditures intended to maintain and enhance our brand may not be cost-effective or effective at all. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, we may have reduced pricing power relative to our competitors, we could lose customers, we could fail to attract potential new customers or retain our existing customers, or our blog and thought leadership in our industry may decline in popularity, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business. If our information technology systems, including the data of our customers stored in our systems, are breached or subject to cybersecurity attacks, our reputation and business may be harmed. Our customers rely on our solutions to store their files, which may include confidential or personally identifiable information, critical business information, photos, and other meaningful content. To manage and maintain such data, we are highly dependent on internal and external information technology systems and infrastructure, including the internet, to securely process, transmit, and store critical information. Although we take measures to protect sensitive information from unauthorized access or disclosure, third parties may be able to circumvent our security by deploying viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that are designed to attack or attempt to infiltrate our systems and networks, including distributed denial of service (DDoS) or phishing attacks, that can undermine the availability and performance of our systems and cloud services, fraudulently steal data, or otherwise cause damage to our reputation. For example, in December 2021, an industry-wide zero-day vulnerability was discovered in the Apache Log4j logging library commonly used by many companies throughout the world that could enable attackers to take control of vulnerable servers. Although we were not aware of any unauthorized access to our systems due to the Log4j vulnerability, out of an abundance of caution and because Log4j was leveraged widely in our environment, we decided it was in our customers best interest to take our systems offline for a short period of time until we could apply the security patch. Moreover, cybersecurity attacks evolve rapidly and may utilize new methods not recognized. We may be unable to successfully identify, stop, or resolve such attacks, or implement adequate preventative measures. Also, due to the political uncertainty involving Russia and Ukraine, there is an increased likelihood that escalation of tensions could result in cybersecurity incidents that could either directly or indirectly impact our operations. In addition, employee or consultant error, malfeasance, or other errors in the storage, use, or transmission of customer data could result in a breach. For example, in late March 2021, it was discovered that a Backblaze marketing campaign leveraging the Facebook ad network, which had been launched two weeks earlier, had been incorrectly configured to run on all Backblaze platform pages instead of only the Backblaze marketing pages as intended. Once we became aware of the issue, it was promptly resolved. Although we believe that less than 2% of Backblaze customers may have been affected, and no actual customer files, file contents, or user account information were shared at any time, certain file metadata may have been inadvertently shared with Facebook. Even if a breach is detected, the full extent of the breach may not be determined immediately, or at all. While we maintain insurance coverage to mitigate the potential financial impact of these risks, our insurance may not cover all such events or may be insufficient to compensate us for potentially significant losses, including the potential damage to the future growth of our business, that may result from any such breach. In addition, our business utilizes information technology systems of our partners and vendors, who are also subject to similar cybersecurity risks that could adversely impact the security of our systems and business. We may have little or no control over how cybersecurity attacks on our partners or vendors are addressed. An actual or perceived breach of our network security and systems or other cybersecurity-related events that cause the loss, theft or unauthorized disclosure of our customers information, including any delay in determining the full extent of a potential breach, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition, including harm to our reputation and brand, reduced demand for our solutions, time-consuming and expensive litigation, fines, penalties, and other damages. If we are unable to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. We generate substantially all of our revenue from the sale of our cloud services either on a consumption or subscription model. To grow, we must continue to attract a large number of customers on a cost-effective basis. We have historically used, and plan to increase our use of, a variety of advertising and marketing programs to promote our cloud services. For example, as part of our press release and earnings announcement for the fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2021, we announced that we planned to make additional sales and marketing investments intended to accelerate the scaling of our business. These programs, including any expansion of existing programs and new programs to promote our cloud services, may not be successful or provide a reasonable return on investment within a desired timeframe. Significant increases in the 9 Table of Contents pricing of one or more of our advertising channels would increase our advertising and marketing costs or cause us to choose less expensive and perhaps less effective channels. We may also need to expand into channels with significantly higher costs, which could adversely affect our operating results. We may also incur advertising and marketing expenses significantly in advance of the time we anticipate recognizing any revenue generated by such expenses, and we may only at a later date, or never, experience an increase in revenue or brand awareness as a result of such expenditures. If we are unable to maintain effective advertising and marketing programs, our ability to attract new customers could be adversely affected, our advertising and marketing expenses could increase substantially, and our operating results may suffer. A portion of our potential customers locate our website through search engines, such as Google, Bing, and Yahoo!. Our ability to maintain the number of visitors directed to our website is not entirely within our control. If search engine companies modify their search algorithms in a manner that reduces the prominence of our listing, or if our competitors search engine optimization efforts are more successful than ours, fewer potential customers may click through to our website. In addition, the cost of purchased listings has increased in the past and may increase in the future. A decrease in website traffic or an increase in promoted search result costs could adversely affect our customer acquisition efforts and our operating results. In addition, we also rely on our blog and word of mouth to drive additional customers. To the extent our blog does not continue to attract readers or if our reputation is harmed, these additional means of attracting customers may no longer provide significant numbers of customers in the future. In addition, because we offer our Computer Backup cloud service at a fixed price, the amount of data our customers back up affects our costs and gross margins. To the extent current or future customers back up unusually large amounts of data, or growth in the amount of data backed up per customer outpaces decreases in storage costs, our costs and gross margins could be adversely affected. If we are unable to provide successful enhancements, new features, and modifications to our cloud services, our business could be adversely affected. Our industry is marked by rapid technological developments and new and enhanced applications and cloud services. If we are unable to provide enhancements and new features for our existing services or new services that achieve market acceptance or that keep pace with rapid technological developments, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, because our cloud services are designed to operate on a variety of systems, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our cloud services to keep pace with changes in internet-related hardware, operating systems, and other software, communication, browser, and database technologies, including the systems of our partners, vendors, and competitors. We may not be successful in either developing these modifications and enhancements or in bringing them to market in a timely fashion. For example, our cloud replication offering, which was recently launched, may not achieve the desired level of market adoption on a timely basis. Any failure of our cloud services to operate effectively and on a timely basis with network platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our cloud services, result in customer dissatisfaction and adversely affect our business. Furthermore, future enhancements may increase our research and development expenses and infrastructure costs, which could adversely impact our pricing advantage, undermine our ease of use, make it more difficult to attract and retain customers, and harm our results of operations. Material defects or errors in our software could negatively impact our business, harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, and negatively impact our ability to sell our cloud services. The software underlying our cloud services is inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects or errors in our cloud services, and new defects or errors in our existing solutions may be detected in the future by us, our customers or partners, or other third parties. The costs incurred in correcting such defects or errors may be substantial and could negatively impact our business. Backblaze employees could also introduce defects or errors through incompetence, malfeasance, or a mistake that would lead to data loss. For example, to the extent that the encryption keys for encrypted customer data stored by Backblaze were to be deleted or corrupted, the data could become unrecoverable. In addition, we rely on hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties to offer our cloud services. Any defects in, or unavailability of, our software that cause interruptions to the availability of our cloud services or that otherwise impact our business could, among other things: require us to issue refunds or credits to our customers or expose us to claims for damages, cause us to lose existing customers and make it more difficult to attract new customers, 10 Table of Contents divert our development resources or require us to make extensive changes to our cloud services or software, harm our reputation and brand, and negatively impact our results of operations. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business would be harmed. We have recently experienced, and continue to experience, a period of rapid growth. For example, our headcount grew from 188 employees as of December 31, 2020, to 270 employees as of December 31, 2021 and to 393 employees as of December 31, 2022 . Also, in just the last two years the amount of storage deployed by us has increased significantly. The number of customers and customer requests on our network has also increased rapidly in recent years. While we expect to continue to expand our operations and to increase our headcount, network, and product offerings significantly in the future, our growth may not be sustainable. Our growth has placed, and future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, corporate culture, quality of our cloud services, and administrative, operational, security, and financial infrastructure. Our headcount needs may also fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis and we may seek to right size our workforce from time to time due to changing business needs and other conditions, and it may be difficult to effectively manage our workforce on a timely basis in response to such changes. It is also important that we successfully leverage our existing employee base and any headcount growth, particularly as our business grows and the corresponding demands on our business increase. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage this growth effectively, which will require that we, among other things, continue to improve our administrative, operational, financial, and management systems and controls. Our business depends on our ability to retain and increase revenue from customers, and if we are unable to do so, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. It is important for our business that our customers continue to use, and even increase their use of, our cloud services. Many of our customers can terminate their use of our cloud services at will with little-to-no advance notice. Even though some of our customers enter into longer-term agreements of up to two years, they generally have no obligation to renew their subscriptions or increase usage. Due to our varied customer base and lack of long-term customer and usage commitments, it can be difficult to accurately predict our customer retention rate on a quarterly basis or long-term basis. Our customer retention and the amount of data that they store with us may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including potential customer dissatisfaction with our cloud services and offerings; pricing plans; our customers own business conditions; customer decisions to delete unneeded or redundant data; the perception, whether or not accurate, that competitive products provide better options; changes in our brand or reputation; and overall general economic conditions. Our future financial performance also depends in part on our ability to continue to increase revenue from our customers through additional paid products, such as Extended Version History and multi-region selection. Our customers decision whether to opt for additional paid products is driven by a number of factors. If our customers do not perceive the value in such additional paid offerings, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our investments in such additional features, and our financial results could be harmed. If we cannot successfully retain our existing customers and add new customers consistent with historical rates, including maintaining or growing the amount of data that our customers store with us, our revenue and ability to grow may be adversely affected. To the extent we target different types of customers, we may face increased demands and challenges that adversely impact our business and operations. Historically, most of our customers consisted of small-to-medium sized businesses and individuals. To the extent we target other types of customers or customers with different needs, we may face greater demand for certain service enhancements or features that we do not currently offer, or additional performance, availability, durability, and security requirements. Certain types of customers may also have longer sales cycles, less predictability or higher volatility in the amount of data they store with us, increased pricing or negotiation leverage, and increased customer education and overall customer engagement needs. In addition, some customers may demand more customization, integration, and support services. Any of these factors could require us to devote greater sales, engineering, marketing, operations, and support services as well as make significant infrastructure changes, which could increase our costs, divert key resources from other current and prospective customers, and otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results. These increased demands and challenges may also be for the benefit of a limited number of customers. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any such efforts will be successful or justify the additional investments in a timely manner, or at all. 11 Table of Contents The material stored using our cloud services may subject us to negative publicity, legal liability, and harm our business. We are not aware of the contents of the data that customers store using our cloud services. While we do have a detailed process to address any third-party complaint regarding illegal or other inappropriate use of our cloud services by a customer that would violate our terms of service, for security and privacy reasons we do not actively monitor the content of data that is being stored with us. To the extent that sensitive, personally identifiable, illegal, or controversial data is stored in our servers and that becomes known publicly, particularly given the highly volatile nature of the political landscape throughout the world and immediate access by individuals to social media platforms with a broad outreach, it may create negative publicity and adversely impact our reputation and harm our business. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Our quarterly results of operations may vary significantly in the future. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and as a result may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Fluctuation in quarterly results may negatively impact the trading price of our Class A common stock. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations include, without limitation: our ability to attract new customers; the amount of customer churn; fluctuations in the amount of data customers store with us; the amount and timing of operating expenses and equipment purchases related to the maintenance and expansion of our business; interruptions or loss of service of our offerings; the timing and success of new product feature and service introductions by us or our competitors; our ability to retain and increase revenue from customers; changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors; security breaches of our systems; our involvement in litigation, or the threat thereof; the length of the sales cycle; outbreaks of war or other hostilities, such as the Russia-Ukraine hostilities; inflation in the United States, which has recently hit a four decade high, and other regions; the impact of COVID-19 or other pandemics on our business or that of our customers and partners; the timing of expenses and receipt of perceived benefits related to any acquisitions; changes in laws and regulations that impact our business; and general economic and market conditions. For example, in addition to the risks from sanctions and other restrictions discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors in connection with the Russian attack on Ukraine that began in February 2022, in order to help the people of Ukraine facing a humanitarian crisis, while it is subject to change, we are currently waiving charges for our services for customers based in 12 Table of Contents Ukraine. We are also unable to receive payments from customers in certain regions that are subject to banking or other credit card payment restrictions, including Russia and Belarus. Although we do not have a significant amount of customers located in these regions, such actions will have some impact on our business. The Russian-Ukraine conflict has also caused oil prices to rise and increased the risk of disruption to the supply chain for oil, which could result in higher energy costs for our business and data centers, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Further, as we continue to grow and scale our business to meet the needs of our customers, we may overestimate or underestimate our infrastructure capacity requirements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The costs associated with leasing and maintaining our custom-built infrastructure in co-location facilities and third-party data centers already constitute a significant portion of our capital and operating expenses. We continuously evaluate our short and long-term infrastructure capacity requirements and seek to ensure adequate capacity for new and existing users while minimizing unnecessary excess capacity costs. However, we may not be able to sufficiently predict future demand, or the availability of hardware or infrastructure necessary to support increased demand on a timely basis. If we overestimate the demand for our platform and therefore secure excess infrastructure capacity or equipment, our gross margins could be reduced. If we underestimate our infrastructure capacity requirements or availability of necessary hardware or infrastructure, we may not be able to service the needs of new and existing customers; durability, reliability, and performance could suffer; our costs could rise; and our business could be harmed. We rely on the performance of key personnel, including our management and other key employees, and the loss of one or more of such personnel, or of a significant number of our team members, could harm our business. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of senior management and other key personnel. All of our employees, including our senior management, are employed on an at-will basis. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any member of our senior management or other key employees, particularly given that some of these employees may hold equity of the Company that is largely vested, or that we would be able to timely replace members of our senior management or other key employees should any of them depart. The loss of one or more members of our senior management or other key employees could harm our business. The failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could prevent us from executing our business strategy. To execute our business strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for executive officers, software developers, sales personnel, operational personnel, and other key employees in our industry is intense. In particular, we compete with many other companies for software developers with high levels of experience in designing, developing, and managing cloud-based software, as well as for skilled sales and operations professionals. In addition, we believe that the success of our business and corporate culture depends on employing a diverse workforce, and the competition for such personnel is significant. The market for such talented personnel is particularly competitive in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters is located. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we do and can frequently offer such personnel substantially greater compensation than we can offer. If we fail to attract new personnel, including accomplished executive talent, or if we fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business would be harmed. In addition, if we are unable to hire new employees on a timely basis or reach productive levels in a short time frame, new growth initiatives and other projects may be delayed or otherwise disrupted, which could cause us to miss our performance goals and negatively impact our business. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity, and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. We have a culture that encourages employees to be open, collaborate, strive to do the right thing, and develop and launch new and innovative solutions, which we believe is essential to attracting customers and partners and serving the best, long-term interests of our company. As our business grows and becomes more complex, and now that we are a public company, it may become more difficult to maintain this cultural emphasis. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, which is critical to our growth, and to effectively focus on and pursue our strategies. If we fail to maintain our company culture, our business and competitive position may be harmed. As we expand our operations outside the United States, we may be subject to increased business, regulatory and economic risks that could impact our results of operations. In 2022, we derived approximately 28% of our total revenue from customers outside of the United States. We may also expand our international operations, which may include hiring employees, building out technical infrastructure, and 13 Table of Contents opening offices in foreign jurisdictions. Any new markets or countries into which we attempt to market and sell our cloud services may not be receptive. For example, we may be unable to expand further in some markets if we are unable to satisfy various government- and region-specific requirements. In addition, our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges and complexities of deploying infrastructure internationally and supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal and regulatory systems, alternative dispute systems, and commercial markets. International expansion has required, and will continue to require, investment of significant funds and other resources. Growth in our international operations will subject us to new risks and may increase risks that we currently face, including risks associated with: higher costs of doing business internationally, including increased infrastructure, accounting, travel, and legal compliance costs; providing our platform, building out the necessary infrastructure and operating our business across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures, including the potential need to modify our platform and features to ensure that they are culturally appropriate and relevant in different countries; compliance with applicable international laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to privacy, data protection, consumer protection, and unsolicited email, and the risk of penalties to our users and individual members of management or employees if our practices are deemed to be out of compliance, and additional laws and regulations in the United States that are applicable to international operations; recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees outside the United States, and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; management of an employee base in jurisdictions that may not give us the same employment and retention flexibility as does the United States; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as does the United States; compliance by us and our business partners with anti-corruption laws, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, and similar laws; import and export control laws; tariffs and trade barriers; economic sanctions; and other regulatory limitations on our ability to provide our cloud services in international markets; foreign exchange controls that might require significant lead time in setting up operations in certain geographic territories; restrictions that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the United States; double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in the income and other tax laws of the United States or the international jurisdictions in which we operate; and political and economic instability in various jurisdictions. Expanding our international operations and complying with applicable laws and regulations may substantially increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. We may also be unable to keep current with changes in laws and regulations as they develop, and we or our employees, contractors, partners, and agents may fail to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any violations could result in enforcement actions, fines, civil and criminal penalties, damages, injunctions, or reputational harm. If we are unable to comply with these laws and regulations or manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We store personal information and other customer data, which subjects us to various data privacy laws, governmental regulations, and other related legal obligations, and any actual or perceived failure to comply with such requirements could harm our business. We store personal information and other customer data, as well as use certain cookies on our website, that are subject to numerous federal, state, local, and foreign laws regarding privacy and the storing and protection of personal information and other customer data, and disclosure requirements regarding the use and certain breaches of such laws. For example, we are subject to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (CPRA), among other laws and regulations around the world. Other comprehensive data privacy or data protection laws or regulations requiring local data residency and/or restricting the international transfer of data have been passed or are under consideration in other jurisdictions. In addition, some industries have industry-specific requirements relating to compliance with certain security and regulatory standards, such as those required by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). For example, HIPAA imposes privacy, security, and breach reporting obligations with respect to individually identifiable health information upon covered entities (e.g., health plans, health care clearinghouses, and certain health care providers), and their respective business associates, individuals, or entities that create, receive, maintain or transmit protected health information in connection with providing a service for or on behalf of a covered entity. Such laws give rise to an increasingly complex set of compliance obligations on us regarding our ability to gather, use, and store customer data and customer account data. These laws are subject to rapid change, differing interpretations, and can be inconsistent among regulatory frameworks or conflict with other rules or our business practices. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations, and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection to the extent possible. Our efforts to comply with the complex matrix of data privacy laws around the world subjects us to increasing costs to review and comply with such laws, including updating our policies, procedures, and business practices to address such evolving privacy laws. We also make public statements and commitments regarding our use and disclosure of personal information through our privacy policy, information provided on our website, and data processing agreements with customers and other third parties. Because the interpretation and application of data protection laws, regulations, standards, and other obligations are often uncertain and in flux, and sometimes contradictory, it is possible that the scope and requirements of these laws and other obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices, and our efforts to comply with rapidly evolving data protection laws and obligations may be unsuccessful. For example, we previously relied on the EU-US Privacy Shield framework, which was invalidated by a European court in July 2020. As a result of such a decision, we have had to take additional steps to comply with applicable EU data protection requirements, including implementation of standard contractual clauses. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with applicable privacy and security laws, policies, or related contractual obligations, or any compromise of security that results in unauthorized access, or the use or transmission of personal information or other customer data, could result in a variety of claims against us, including governmental enforcement actions and investigations, audits, inquiries, whistleblower complaints, class action privacy litigation in certain jurisdictions, and proceedings by data protection authorities. For example, under the GDPR we may be subject to fines of up to 20 million or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual group turnover of the preceding financial year, as well as potentially face claims from individuals. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for certain data breaches that result in the loss of personal information. This private right of action may increase the likelihood of, and risks associated with, data breach litigation. The CPRA added new requirements and consumer privacy rights as well as the creation of the California Privacy Protection Agency as a dedicated agency to implement and enforce California state privacy laws, investigate violations and assess penalties. Any new or currently applicable privacy and security laws, policies, or related contractual obligations may be enacted, adopted, or modified, the result of which may impact our compliance efforts, especially when certain emerging privacy laws are still subject to a high degree of uncertainty as to their interpretation, application and impact. Any non-compliance with data privacy requirements could subject us to significant fines and penalties, adverse media coverage, reputational damage, the loss of current and potential customers, loss of export privileges, or criminal or other civil sanctions, any of which could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our business is substantially dependent on mid-market organizations, which may be more vulnerable to market fluctuations and other economic factors, and their vulnerability to such factors could negatively impact our business. If we are unable to successfully market and sell our cloud services to mid-market organizations, our ability to grow our revenue and achieve profitability will be harmed. We expect it will be more difficult and expensive to attract and retain mid-market organization customers than other customers because mid-market organizations are more frequently 15 Table of Contents forced to curtail or cease operations due to the sale or failure of their business; can be more difficult to identify and may require more expensive, targeted sales campaigns; and generally have lesser amounts of data to store than larger organizations, thus requiring us to successfully sell to and support more mid-market organizations for meaningful revenue impact. In addition, mid-market organizations frequently have limited budgets and are more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than larger, more established companies. For example, recent high inflation and recession concerns in the United States could have a greater adverse impact on mid-market organizations. As a result, mid-market organizations may choose to spend funds on items other than our cloud services, particularly during difficult economic times. If we do not achieve continued success among mid-market organizations, our business, operating results, and future growth would be adversely affected. We are dependent on a small number of service offerings, and any reduced market adoption of these offerings would result in lower revenue and harm our business. As a specialized cloud vendor, we are dependent on a small number of offerings focused on cloud storage and computer backup, and a limited number of corresponding use cases. Our B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup offerings have accounted for substantially all of our total revenue to date and we anticipate that they will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. As a result, our revenue could be reduced as a result of any general or industry decline in demand for cloud-based storage solutions, particularly given that we would not have meaningful revenue from other market sectors to offset any temporary or longer-term downturn in demand for cloud-based storage solutions. Adverse economic conditions may adversely impact our revenue and profitability. Our operations and financial performance depend in part on worldwide economic conditions and the impact these conditions have on levels of spending on cloud storage solutions. Our business depends on the overall demand for these products and on the economic health and general willingness of our current and prospective customers to purchase our cloud services. Some of our paying customers may view use of cloud storage services as a discretionary purchase and may reduce their discretionary spending on our cloud services during an economic downturn. Weak economic conditions, whether due to COVID-19, inflation, uncertainty relating to Russian acts in Ukraine and the potential escalation of tensions in the region or other factors, could cause a reduction in spending on products and solutions storage. Inflation recently experienced the highest rate in four decades in the United States amid a slowing economy and there are numerous indicators suggesting a potential economic recession in the United States and other regions of the world. Any such conditions, could reduce sales, lengthen sales cycles, increase customer churn, and lower demand for our cloud services, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our ability to maintain customer adoption and satisfaction depends in part on the ease of use of our cloud services, and any such failure could have an adverse effect on our business. Our success in retaining existing customers and obtaining new customers is dependent in part on the ease of use of our cloud services. If our platform and cloud services, including new service offerings and features as they become available, become more complicated and less easy-to-use, customers could experience increased difficulties or disruption with storing or accessing their data, and we may lose existing customers or experience increased challenges obtaining new customers or existing customers may not choose to use additional features of our cloud services. In addition, our customers sometimes depend on our technical support services to resolve issues relating to our platform. If we do not succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve issues or provide effective ongoing education related to our platform, our reputation and business may be harmed. Future acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands, and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may choose to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and we may be unable to successfully complete proposed acquisitions. The risks we face in connection with acquisitions include: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges; coordination of research and development, operational, and sales and marketing functions; 16 Table of Contents retention of key employees from the acquired company; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; integration of the acquired companys accounting, management information, human resources, and other administrative systems; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures, and policies; liability for activities of the acquired company prior to our acquisition of them, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; unanticipated write-offs or charges; and litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental operating expenses, or the write-off of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition or operating results. We may require additional capital to support our operations or the growth of our business, and we cannot be certain that this capital will be available on reasonable terms when required, or at all. We may need additional financing to operate or grow our business. Our ability to obtain additional financing, if and when required, will depend on investor and lender demand, our operating performance, the condition of the capital markets, and other factors. For example, we often use leases to finance the equipment we use to provide our cloud-based services, and we have a revolving credit agreement with City National Bank. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced disruption and elements of a bear market, including with respect to technology stocks, due to high inflation, various economic headwinds and other factors. Also, although we use City National Bank, a subsidiary of Royal Bank of Canada (RBC), for our banking needs, and do not use Silicon Valley Bank in any capacity, the banking industry has experienced disruption and uncertainty in connection with the recent sudden closure of Silicon Valley Bank in March 2023. In the event of a failure of any financial institutions where we maintain deposits, we may lose timely access to our funds at such institutions and incur significant losses to the extent our funds exceed the $250,000 limit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In addition, the disruption and uncertainty impacting the banking industry may result in reduced access to capital, increased costs of capital, and reduced opportunities to invest with investment grade securities, which could also lower investment yields and investment income. Any such impact could have a material adverse effect upon our liquidity and business. Without additional access to this kind of capital on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we may not be able to respond to increased demand for our cloud services on a timely or cost-effective basis. We cannot guarantee that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked, or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to the rights of our Class A common stock, and our existing stockholders may experience dilution. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support the operation or growth of our business could be significantly impaired and our operating results may be harmed. We are an emerging growth company, and any decision on our part to comply only with certain reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, and for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies, including: not being required to have our independent registered public accounting firm audit our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the Sarbanes Oxley Act), reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and 17 Table of Contents stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to avail ourselves of this accommodation allowing for delayed adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and therefore, we will not be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years following the completion of our IPO or until we reach certain thresholds. Investors may find our Class A common stock less attractive due to our election to rely on these exemptions and there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and the market price of our Class A common stock may be more volatile. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our results of operations. All of our sales contracts, and substantially all of our operations and related financial arrangements, are currently denominated in U.S. dollars and therefore, our revenue and business operations are not directly subject to significant foreign currency risk. However, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost of our cloud services to our customers outside of the United States, which could reduce demand for our cloud services and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as we expand our international operations, we may become more exposed to foreign currency risk and may have some of our sales and other operations denominated in one or more currencies other than the U.S. dollar. If we become more exposed to currency fluctuations and are unable to successfully hedge against the risks associated with currency fluctuations, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Certain of our market opportunity estimates, growth forecasts, and other metrics included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could prove to be inaccurate, and any real or perceived inaccuracies may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. Certain estimates and information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including general expectations concerning our industry and the market in which we operate, market opportunity, and market size, are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. Moreover, much of this information is based on information provided by third-party providers. Although we believe the information from such third-party sources is reliable, we have not independently verified the accuracy or completeness of the data contained in such third-party sources or the methodologies for collecting such data, and such information may also not prove to be accurate. If there are any limitations or errors with respect to such data or methodologies, our business opportunities may be limited, which could negatively affect our shares of Class A common stock. Even if the markets in which we compete meet the size estimates and growth forecasted in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. Any future litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. We may become subject to legal proceedings, investigations, and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. For example, we may be subject to claims brought by customers, vendors or other third parties in connection with various types of disputes, including relating to commercial or contract matters, violation of securities laws, intellectual property laws or other laws, or privacy or other data breaches, or employment claims made by our current or former employees. Litigation can often be expensive, even when there is a successful outcome, and can divert managements attention and resources, which could harm our business and financial condition. Any adverse outcome could also result in significant monetary damages or other types of unfavorable relief, which could harm our business as well as our reputation. Although we may have various insurance policies, insurance might not cover such claims or provide sufficient payments to cover all the costs to resolve one or more such claims, and might not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements. In addition, we may also be subject to subpoena requests from third parties as well as governmental agencies from time to time that require us to provide certain information relating to matters targeted against other third parties, which can be time consuming. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted how we, our customers, and our partners are operating, and any re-emergence of the pandemic could result in a material adverse effect on our business. The COVID-19 pandemic, and measures taken to control its spread such as travel restrictions, shelter-in-place orders, and business shutdowns, have affected all of the regions in which we conduct business and in which our customers, partners, and suppliers are located; have adversely impacted global economic activity; and have contributed to volatility in financial markets. The pandemic has resulted in various changes to customer business dynamics and may have impacted the storage 18 Table of Contents needs of our customers and prospective customers as well as additional costs and other adverse business conditions affecting our company and our customers and partners, which may occur again if pandemic conditions return. In addition, work from home and related business practice modifications present significant challenges to maintaining our corporate culture, including employee engagement and productivity, as we make additional adjustments following the pandemic. Risks Related to Reliance on Infrastructure and Third Parties We rely on third-party vendors and suppliers, including data center and hard drive providers, which may have limited sources of supply, and this reliance exposes us to potential supply and service disruptions that could harm our business. We depend on a limited number of third-party data centers and other providers to safely house our equipment and provide sufficient power, bandwidth, and other infrastructure needs to support our operations and cloud services. We also rely on key components for our platform, including hard drives and semiconductors, which come from limited sources of supply. For example, the 2011 Thailand floods decreased hard drive supply globally due to related manufacturing stoppages. A similar decrease in hard drive availability could negatively impact our operations. The COVID-19 pandemic as well as fluctuating demands in the cryptocurrency mining markets also have impacted, and could continue to impact, our ability to source components in a timely and cost-effective manner from third-party suppliers. For example, starting in April 2020, we began to acquire additional hard drives and related infrastructure through finance lease agreements in order to minimize the impact of potential supply chain disruptions due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The additional leased hard drives resulted in a higher balance of capital equipment and related lease liability, an increase in cash used in financing activities from principal payments, as well as a higher ongoing interest and depreciation expense related to these lease agreements. The semiconductor industry also experienced a global chip shortage due to the COVID-19 pandemic and various other factors. Current or future supply chain interruptions that could be exacerbated by global political tensions, such as the Russia-Ukraine war, or tensions between Taiwan and China, particularly if those tensions escalate into an armed conflict, that could disrupt the global supply chain and result in the implementation of trade barriers, including boycotts or the use of economic sanctions and export control restrictions, any of which could negatively impact our ability to acquire hard drives and semiconductors. Any shortage of key components, including hard drives, could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide our cloud services, as well as negatively impact our financial results by increasing our costs, lease liabilities, interest and depreciation expenses, and inventory levels. Shortages or pricing fluctuations could be material in the future. In the event of a shortage, supply interruption, or material pricing change from our suppliers, we may be unable to develop alternate sources in a timely manner or at all. For example, a third party vendor that operated one of our multiple data center locations, filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 under the United States Bankruptcy Code in 2022. This bankruptcy matter was resolved without disruption to normal operations, but future bankruptcies or similar actions affecting our third-party hosted data center providers could result in disruptions to the company, and access to customer data may become unavailable or customer data could be lost, and it may take a significant period of time to achieve full resumption of our cloud services. Developing alternate sources of supply for these infrastructure needs, and transitioning our customers data from one provider to another, may result in loss of availability of our services for a period of time, be time-consuming, costly, difficult, and increase the risk of damage and loss. We may also be unable to source them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, which may undermine our ability to operate or scale our platform and harm our business. Our business depends, in part, on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties. To maintain and grow our business, we anticipate that we will continue to depend on relationships with third parties, such as channel partners and integrators. Identifying partners and negotiating and building relationships with them requires significant time and resources. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their services over us. In addition, any industry consolidation of such partners or integrators by our competitors or others could result in a decrease in the number of our current and potential customers, as these partners or integrators may no longer facilitate the adoption of our applications by potential customers. Interoperability between our platform and other third-party platforms is also important to our business. Further, some of our partners or integrators are or may become competitive with certain aspects of our cloud services and may elect to no longer integrate with, or support, our platform and cloud services. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with such third parties and maintaining interoperability, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenue could be impaired, and our business may suffer. Even if we are successful, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in increased customer usage of our cloud services or increased revenue. 19 Table of Contents Our business is exposed to risks associated with online payment processing methods. Many of our customers pay for our cloud services and products using credit cards. We rely on internal systems as well as those of third parties, including Stripe, to process payments. Acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees. To the extent there are increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, such as large re-issuances of payment cards, delays in receiving payments from payment processors, changes to rules or regulations concerning payment processing, loss of payment partners, and/or disruptions or failures in our payment processing systems or payment products, including products we use to update payment information, our revenue, operating expenses, and results of operation could be adversely impacted. For example, in response to the Russian attack on Ukraine that began in February 2022, the United States and many other countries began imposing sanctions on Russia and certain other regions, including goods and services imported and exported to Russia and certain other regions. In addition, various banking institutions and companies, including Stripe and credit card companies, began prohibiting any payments from persons located in Russia, which impacts our ability to receive payments from, and transact certain types of business operations with, our customers, and potential new customers, that are located in those regions. Although we do not have a significant number of customers located in those regions, such actions will have some impact our business. It is also difficult to predict how long the conflict may last, how the conflict could escalate, and how the sanctions may evolve, which could cause a greater adverse impact on our business and operations than we expect. We rely on third-party software for certain essential financial and operational services, and a failure or disruption in these services could materially and adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. We rely on third-party software to provide many essential financial and operational services to support our business, including HubSpot, NetSuite, PagerDuty, and Zendesk. Some of these vendors are less established and have shorter operating histories than traditional software vendors. Moreover, many of these vendors provide their services to us via a cloud-based model instead of software that is installed on our premises. As a result, we depend upon these vendors to provide us with services that are always available and are free of errors or defects that could cause disruptions in our business processes. Any failure by these vendors to do so, or any disruption in our ability to access the internet, would materially and adversely affect our ability to manage our operations, disrupt the delivery of our cloud services to customers, and affect other areas such as our ability to timely provide required financial reporting. Risks Related to Accounting and Tax Matters We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, and the failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could harm our business and negatively impact the value of our Class A common stock. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, and if we are not able to effectively remediate our outstanding material weaknesses or are otherwise unable to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or timely file our periodic reports. As a result, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and the market price of our Class A common stock may be materially impacted. Our management determined that as of December 31, 2019 we did not maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, and identified four material weaknesses, specifically related to control activities, of which three had been remediated as of December 31, 2022. Additionally, as of December 31, 2021, we determined a material weakness existed relating to ineffective information technology general controls in the areas of user access and segregation of duties related to certain information technology systems that support our financial reporting process specifically related to expenditures, and this material weakness had been remediated as of December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2022, two material weaknesses remained as follows. i. Our controls were not operating effectively to allow sufficient and timely review of significant accounting transactions and reconciliations. These deficiencies resulted in errors in cash and cash equivalents, prepaid expenses and other current assets, property and equipment, capitalized internal-use software, capital lease liability and sale leaseback transactions, accrued compensation and income tax; and ii. our controls over certain equity transactions were not operating effectively to allow management to timely identify errors related to the recording of those transactions; specifically, we did not have sufficient technical resources to appropriately identify errors in the accounting for equity awards and preferred stock transactions, resulting in 20 Table of Contents misstatements relating to completeness and accuracy of stock-based compensation and classification of equity instrument. We have dedicated significant effort and resources towards measures to remediate the identified material weaknesses. We are in the process of designing and implementing internal controls intended to address our remaining material weaknesses, and are also testing the operating effectiveness of these controls. The remaining material weaknesses cannot be considered fully remediated until the applicable controls operate for a sufficient period of time and management has concluded, through testing, that these controls are operating effectively. We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to date will be sufficient to remediate the remaining material weaknesses we identified or prevent additional material weaknesses in the future. Although we plan to complete this remediation, if the steps we take do not remediate these material weaknesses in a timely or sufficient manner, there could continue to be a reasonable possibility that these control deficiencies could result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting until after we are no longer an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our internal controls over financial reporting is documented, designed, or operating. Any failure to maintain effective disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could cause a decline in the trading price of our Class A common stock. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations, which could negatively impact the price of our Class A common stock. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Global Market. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems, and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure