Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of these risks actually occur, it may materially harm our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and the market price of our Class A common stock. Risk Factors Summary Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our Class A common stock speculative or risky. Importantly, this summary does not address all of the risks that we face. Our ability to execute our business strategy is subject to numerous risks, as more fully described in the section titled Risk Factors immediately following this summary. These risks include, among others: We have a history of cumulative losses, and we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future. The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results would be harmed. Any significant disruption in our service or loss, or delay in availability, of our customers data, could damage our reputation and harm our business and operating results. If we are unable to maintain our brand and reputation, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. If our information technology systems, including the data of our customers stored in our systems, are breached or subject to cybersecurity attacks, our reputation and business may be harmed. If we are unable to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. If we are unable to provide successful enhancements, new features, and modifications to our cloud services, our business could be adversely affected. Material defects or errors in our software could negatively impact our business, harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, and negatively impact our ability to sell our cloud services. We rely on third-party vendors and suppliers, including data center and hard drive providers, which may have limited sources of supply, and this reliance exposes us to potential supply and service disruptions that could harm our business. Our business depends, in part, on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties. Although we have previously identified and remediated material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we could experience material weaknesses in the future and the failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could harm our business and negatively impact the value of our common stock. 7 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have a history of cumulative losses, and we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future. We incurred net losses of $48.5 million and $59.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Following our 17 plus years of operations, we had an accumulated deficit of $196.0 million as of December 31, 2024. We cannot guarantee that net losses in future periods will be similar to those from prior periods. We intend to continue scaling our business to increase our customer base and to meet the increasingly complex needs of our customers. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, in our sales and marketing organization to sell our cloud services around the world and in our development organization to deliver additional features and capabilities of our cloud services to address our customers evolving needs. We also expect to continue to make significant investments in our data center infrastructure and technical operations organization as we further scale our business. As a result of our continuing investments to scale our business in each of these areas, we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future or that, if we do become profitable, we will sustain profitability. The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results would be harmed. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry for certain applications and services. Some of our competitors include cloud-based services such as those offered by Amazon.com, Inc. through Amazon Web Services, Alphabet Inc. through Google Cloud Platform, and Microsoft Corporation through Azure, and on-premises offerings such as those offered by EMC/Dell and NetApp. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater name and brand recognition; longer operating histories; larger budgets for the development, promotion and sale of their products or services; broader service offerings and capabilities; and significantly greater resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing and distribution relationships with channel partners, consultants, system integrators, and resellers. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly and effectively to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or customer requirements, including offering multiple types of storage solutions with various price points, feature sets and performance levels. Competition may intensify in the future, particularly as we seek to move up-market and may also include new market entrants, including storage offerings by some of our partners. Our competitors could offer their products or services at a lower price or in some combination with other services or applications that we do not offer, which could result in pricing pressures on our business. We have raised prices in the past, including price increases which took effect in the fourth quarter of 2023. While we believe that these price increases resulted in increased revenue without a material negative impact on our business, any future price increases by us, or reductions in prices by our competitors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including potential loss of customers who do not wish to renew their subscriptions at the higher prices, reduction in the number of new customers, or a decrease in the amount of data that existing (or new) customers store with us or subscriptions they purchase from us. Increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, increased customer churn, lower margins, losses, or the failure of our cloud services to achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. Any significant disruption in our service or loss, or delay in availability of our customers data, could damage our reputation and harm our business and operating results. Our brand, reputation, and ability to manage our systems; attract, retain, and serve our customers; and interface with our partners, are dependent upon the reliable performance of our platform, including our underlying technical infrastructure, as well as the systems and infrastructure of various third parties, including third-party hosted data centers that we use and internet access and infrastructure used by us and our customers and partners. Our customers rely on our platform to store and access their data, including financial records, business information, personal information, documents, media, and other important content. There are various reasons that our platform, or the systems that are used to access or support our platform, could experience a disruption in service, some of which are entirely outside of our control. For example, our facilities as well as the data centers that we use are subject to extreme weather events and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and tornados, storms, floods, fires and droughts, which may become more frequent and intense due to climate change. Our facilities and data centers are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, war or other military conflict, including the conflicts between Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas, which may further escalate and could directly or indirectly involve other countries, including the United States, terrorist attacks, cybersecurity attacks or the risk of potential cybersecurity attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures, and similar events, any of which could disrupt our service, destroy user content, or prevent us from being able to continuously back up or record changes in our users content. For example, a third party vendor that operated one of our multiple data center locations, filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the United States 8 Table of Contents Bankruptcy Code in 2022. This bankruptcy matter was resolved without disruption to our normal operations, but future bankruptcies or similar events affecting our third-party hosted data center providers could result in disruptions to our Company, access to customer data may become unavailable or customer data could be lost, and it may take a significant period of time to achieve full resumption of our cloud services. Also, in response to the Russian attack on Ukraine that began in February 2022, the United States and many other countries began imposing sanctions on Russia and certain parts of Ukraine, including restrictions on the import and export of goods and services to those regions. These restrictions have also been expanded to other countries, including Belarus. Although we do not have a significant number of customers located in those regions, such actions have had some immaterial impact on our business. It is difficult to predict how long the conflict may last, how the conflict could escalate, and how the sanctions may evolve, which could cause a greater adverse impact on our business and operations. While we maintain incident response plans that include defined processes, roles, communications, responsibilities and procedures for responding to cybersecurity incidents and other events that impact our operations, and such plans are tested and evaluated on a regular basis, our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities and even if we anticipate an incident, our disaster recovery plans may not be sufficient to timely and effectively address the issue. Moreover, our platform and technical infrastructure may not be adequately designed with sufficient reliability and redundancy to avoid delays or outages or other issues that could be harmful to our business. If our platform is unavailable when users attempt to access it, or if it does not perform as quickly as they expect, or if data is lost, users may not use our platform as often in the future, or at all. If we are unable to maintain our brand and reputation, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. The successful promotion of our brand and our ability to maintain our reputation will depend on a number of factors, including our performance and the reliability of our cloud services; our advertising and marketing efforts, including our blog and social media presence, which have been important to building and maintaining our brand and reputation; our ability to continue to develop high-quality features and cloud services; and our ability to successfully differentiate our cloud services from competitive products and services. Our brand promotion activities may not be successful or yield increased revenue. The promotion of our brand may require us to make substantial expenditures, particularly as our markets become more competitive and we expand into new markets or offer new products or services, or additional features. Expenditures intended to maintain and enhance our brand may not be cost-effective or effective at all. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, we may have reduced pricing power relative to our competitors, we could lose customers, we could fail to attract potential new customers or retain our existing customers, or our blog and thought leadership in our industry may decline in popularity, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business. If our information technology systems, including the data of our customers stored in our systems, are breached or subject to cybersecurity attacks, our reputation and business may be harmed. Our customers rely on our solutions to store or use their files, which may include confidential or personally identifiable information, critical business information, photos, and other meaningful content. To manage and maintain such data, we are highly dependent on internal and external information technology systems and infrastructure, including the internet, to securely process, transmit, and store critical information. Although we take measures to protect our systems and sensitive information from unauthorized access or disclosure, third parties may be able to circumvent our security by deploying viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that are designed to attack or attempt to infiltrate our systems and networks, including distributed denial of service (DDoS) or phishing attacks, that can undermine the availability and performance of our systems and cloud services, lead to the blocking of our services by ISPs or governments, fraudulently steal data, or otherwise cause damage to our reputation and negatively impact us and our customers. For example, in December 2021, an industry-wide zero-day vulnerability was discovered in the Apache Log4j logging library commonly used by many companies throughout the world that could permit attackers to take control of vulnerable servers. Although we were not aware of any unauthorized access to our systems due to the Log4j vulnerability, out of an abundance of caution and because Log4j was leveraged widely in our environment, we decided it was in our customers best interest to take our systems offline for a short period of time until we could apply the security patch. In addition, we regularly encounter attempts to create false or undesirable user accounts and various types of DDoS attacks, which can disrupt our systems, impair system performance and impact analytics. Moreover, cybersecurity attacks evolve rapidly and are expected to continue to accelerate in both frequency and sophistication, and bad actors may utilize new methods not recognized because they are designed to circumvent controls, avoid detection, and remove or obfuscate forensic evidence. Although we have taken, and continue to take, various actions to prevent and mitigate potential cybersecurity attacks, it is very difficult to successfully identify, stop, or resolve such attacks, or implement adequate preventative measures and we will 9 Table of Contents continue to incur costs in our efforts to protect against and respond to cyber-attacks and potential cyber-attacks. Also, the use of generative artificial intelligence, or other societal or political developments resulting in periods of increased political tensions and military conflicts, could result in a greater likelihood of cybersecurity incidents that could either directly or indirectly impact our operations. In addition, employee or consultant error, malfeasance, or other errors in the storage, use, or transmission of customer data could result in a breach. Even if a breach is detected, the full extent of the breach may not be determined immediately, or at all. While we maintain insurance coverage to mitigate the potential financial impact of these risks, our insurance may not cover all such events or may be insufficient to compensate us for potentially significant losses, including the potential damage to the future growth of our business, that may result from any such breach. In addition, our business utilizes information technology systems of our partners and vendors, who are also subject to similar cybersecurity risks that could adversely impact the security of our systems and business. Although we take steps to secure customer information that is provided to or accessible by our partners and vendors, such measures may not always be effective and we may have limited or no control over how cybersecurity attacks on our partners or vendors are addressed. An actual or perceived breach of our network security and systems or other cybersecurity-related events that cause the loss, theft or unauthorized disclosure of our customers information, including any delay in determining the full extent of a potential breach, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition, including harm to our reputation and brand, reduced demand for our solutions, time-consuming and expensive litigation, fines, penalties, and other damages. If we are unable to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. We generate substantially all of our revenue from the sale of our cloud services either on a consumption or subscription model. To grow, we must continue to attract a large number of customers on a cost-effective basis. Any price increases could make it more difficult to attract new customers and retain existing customers, or cause existing customers to reduce the amount of data that they store with us, thus negatively impacting our revenue and business. We have historically used, and plan to increase our use of, a variety of advertising and marketing programs to promote our cloud services. Our sales and marketing investments intended to accelerate the scaling of our business, including any expansion of existing programs and new programs to promote our cloud services, may not be successful or provide a reasonable return on investment within a desired timeframe. Significant increases in the pricing of one or more of our advertising channels would increase our advertising and marketing costs or cause us to choose less expensive and perhaps less effective channels. We may also need to expand into channels with significantly higher costs, which could adversely affect our operating results. We may also incur increased sales and marketing expenses and engineering and operating expenses, including infrastructure expenditures, significantly in advance of the time we anticipate recognizing any revenue generated by such expenses, and we may only at a later date, or never, experience an increase in revenue or other benefits as a result of such expenditures. If we are unable to achieve effective advertising and marketing programs or successfully expand our solution offerings and operations, our ability to attract new customers could be adversely affected, our advertising and marketing expenses could increase substantially, and our operating results may suffer. A portion of our potential customers locate our website through search engines, such as Google, Bing, and Yahoo!. In 2023 we modernized our website to help improve the user experience and increase traffic through search engine optimization to accelerate lead generation, although such efforts may not be as successful as anticipated to increase web traffic and improve the user experience. Our ability to maintain the number of visitors directed to our website is not entirely within our control. If search engine companies modify their search algorithms in a manner that reduces the prominence of our listing, or if our competitors search engine optimization efforts are more successful than ours, or if AI results replace traffic from search engines, fewer potential customers may click through to our website. In addition, the cost of purchased listings has increased in the past and may increase in the future. A decrease in website traffic or an increase in promoted search result costs could adversely affect our customer acquisition efforts and our operating results. In addition, we also rely on our blog and word of mouth to drive additional customers. To the extent our blog does not continue to attract readers or if our reputation is harmed, these additional means of attracting customers may no longer provide significant numbers of customers in the future. In addition, because we offer our Computer Backup cloud service at a fixed price, the amount of data our customers back up affects our costs and gross margins. Subject to certain limitations, we also offer up to three times free egress for our B2 Cloud Storage customers. To the extent current or future customers back up unusually large amounts of data, use an excessive amount of egress or growth in the amount of data backed up per customer outpaces decreases in storage costs, our costs and gross margins and infrastructure could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to provide successful enhancements, new features, and modifications to our cloud services, our business could be adversely affected. Our industry is marked by rapid technological developments and new and enhanced applications and cloud services. If we are unable to provide enhancements and new features for our existing services or new services that achieve market acceptance or that keep pace with rapid technological developments, our business could be adversely affected. We have recently launched various new product features and other changes, including Event Notification and Live Read. We cannot be certain whether such features and other changes will achieve a desired level of market adoption and return on investment. In addition, because our cloud services are designed to operate on a variety of systems, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our cloud services to keep pace with changes in internet-related hardware, operating systems, and other software, communication, browser, and database technologies, including the systems of our partners, vendors, and competitors. We also have limited internal resources and thus need to selectively prioritize features and other development and infrastructure projects, and de-prioritize other such projects. Although we seek to prioritize the projects that we believe are the most important and de-prioritize projects of lesser importance based on the information available to us at any given time, there is no guarantee that our prioritization efforts will achieve the desired market adoption or infrastructure improvements and we may not be successful in either developing these modifications and enhancements or in bringing them to market in a timely fashion. In addition, any failure of our cloud services to operate effectively and on a timely basis with network platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our cloud services, result in customer dissatisfaction and adversely affect our business. Furthermore, any enhancements, new features or offerings generally require upfront investments before any potential return on investment, and may increase our research and development expenses and infrastructure costs, which could adversely impact our pricing advantage, undermine our ease of use, make it more difficult to attract and retain customers, and harm our results of operations. Material defects or errors in our software or hardware failures could negatively impact our business, harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, and negatively impact our ability to sell our cloud services. The software underlying our cloud services is inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects or errors in our cloud services, and new defects or errors in our existing solutions may be detected in the future by us, our customers or partners, or other third parties. The costs incurred in correcting such defects or errors may be substantial and could negatively impact our business. Backblaze employees could also introduce defects or errors through incompetence, malfeasance, or a mistake that would lead to data loss. For example, to the extent that the encryption keys for encrypted customer data stored by Backblaze were to be deleted or corrupted, the data could become unrecoverable. In addition, we rely on hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties to offer our cloud services. Hardware is susceptible to failures over time and may require increased maintenance effort and costs. Any defects in, or unavailability of, our software or hardware failures that cause interruptions to the availability of our cloud services or that otherwise impact our business could, among other things: require us to issue refunds or credits to our customers or expose us to claims for damages, cause us to lose existing customers and make it more difficult to attract new customers, divert our development resources or require us to make extensive changes to our cloud services or software, harm our reputation and brand, and negatively impact our results of operations. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business would be harmed. We have recently experienced, and continue to experience, a period of rapid growth. The amount of data stored with us and the storage infrastructure deployed by us has increased significantly. The number of customer requests on our network has also increased rapidly in recent years. Our growth may not be sustainable. In 2023 and 2024, we initiated measures to reduce headcount and took other actions to pursue greater cost efficiency and align strategic initiatives. Nevertheless, in the long term, we expect to continue to expand our operations and to increase our headcount, network, and product offerings significantly. Our growth has placed, and future growth may continue to place, a significant strain on our management, corporate culture, quality of our cloud services, and administrative, operational, security, and financial infrastructure. Our 11 Table of Contents headcount needs may also fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis and we may seek, and have sought by way of the recent restructuring measures, to right size our workforce from time to time due to changing business needs and other conditions. It may also be difficult to effectively manage our workforce on a timely basis in response to such changes. It is also important that we successfully leverage our existing employee base and any headcount growth, particularly as our business grows and the corresponding demands on our business increase. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage this growth effectively, which will require that we, among other things, continue to improve our administrative, operational, financial, and management systems and controls. If we fail to manage our growth, the quality of our services may suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation and harm our ability to retain and attract customers and employees. Our business could be materially harmed to the extent that we do not effectively manage our data center capacity and the costs associated with our data centers. We must continue to effectively manage our infrastructure, including capital expenditures to maintain and expand our data center capacity, servers and equipment, and locations. The costs of building out and maintaining our data centers, including the purchase and leasing of equipment, constitute a significant portion of our capital and operating expenses. To manage our data center capacity and the associated capital expenditures, we continuously evaluate our short and long-term data center capacity requirements. However, because our customer retention and the amount of data that they store with us may increase, decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, it is difficult to accurately predict our capacity needs over time. If we underestimate the data center capacity needed to address increases in volume usage, or there is not enough capacity at the data centers at commercially acceptable rates, or at all, we may be unable to increase our data center capacity in an expedient and cost-effective manner, which could result in materially adverse effects on our business and our results of operations. For example, if we are not able to obtain data center capacity on a timely basis, the ability for customers to upload or download data could be negatively impacted. As a result, we might be unable to attract new customers or retain existing customers and could cause existing customers to reduce the amount of data that they store with us. In such a scenario, we may also be required to enter into leases or other agreements for data centers, servers and other equipment that are more expensive than they otherwise would be as a result of the increased demand and competition in the market for data center capacity. It can also take time to add data center capacity, whether at existing data center locations or new locations, and therefore, we may also not be able to expand our data center capacity to address customer needs on a timely basis. In addition, many of our data center sites are subject to multi-year leases. If our capacity needs are reduced, or if we decide to close a data center, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable leases including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term and continuing to pay for any servers or other equipment. If we overestimate our data center capacity requirements, and therefore secure excess data center capacity and servers or other equipment, then our capital expenditures could be materially increased and our operating margins could be materially reduced. To the extent we pursue any expansion of our data center footprint, our infrastructure and maintenance costs will increase. In addition, we will generally incur expenses in advance of receiving any increase in customers, revenue or other benefits. Any expansion outside of the United States will also increase the costs of compliance with local laws and regulations. As a result, we may not be able to recover the cost of those investments, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may also be subject to risks and unanticipated increases in energy costs as a result of: regulations intended to regulate carbon emissions and other pollutants, laws requiring enhanced energy efficiency measures, surcharges related to recovering the cost of extreme weather events and natural disasters, geopolitical conflicts, military conflicts, grid modernization charges, as well as other charges. Such increases could adversely affect our business financial conditions and results of operations. Our business depends on our ability to retain and increase revenue from customers, and if we are unable to do so, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. It is important for our business that our customers continue to use, and even increase their use of, our cloud services. Many of our customers can terminate their use of our cloud services at will with little-to-no advance notice. Even though some of our customers enter into longer-term multi-year agreements, they generally have no obligation to renew their subscriptions or increase usage. Due to our varied customer base and lack of long-term customer and usage commitments, it can be difficult to accurately predict our customer retention rate on a quarterly basis or long-term basis. Our customer retention and the amount of data that they store with us may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including potential customer dissatisfaction with our cloud services and offerings; pricing plans; our customers own business conditions; customer decisions to delete unneeded or redundant data; the perception, whether or not accurate, that competitive products provide better options; changes in our brand or reputation; and overall general economic conditions. Our recent price increase for Computer Backup and B2 Cloud Storage could make it more difficult to attract new customers and retain existing customers, or cause existing customers to reduce the amount of data that they store with us or 12 Table of Contents subscriptions they purchase from us. Our future financial performance also depends in part on our ability to continue to increase revenue from our customers through new features and additional paid products, such as Event Notifications, Live Read, Enterprise Control and multi-region selection. Our customers decision whether to opt for additional paid products is driven by a number of factors. If our customers do not perceive the value in such additional paid offerings, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our investments in such additional features, and our financial results could be harmed. If we cannot successfully retain our existing customers and add new customers consistent with historical rates, including maintaining or growing the amount of data that our customers store with us, our revenue and ability to grow may be adversely affected. To the extent we target different types of customers, we may face increased demands and challenges that adversely impact our business and operations. Historically, most of our customers consisted of small-to-medium sized businesses and individuals. Our growth strategy is in part dependent upon attracting and retaining customers that are larger businesses and organizations. To the extent we target other types of customers or customers with different or specific needs, we may face greater demand for certain service enhancements or features that we do not currently offer, or additional performance, availability, durability, and security requirements. We may also face greater peak demands on our infrastructure from customers using our platform that could temporarily impact the quality of our services, strain our resources, increase our operating costs or require additional capital expenditures. We may face increased competition from some of our competitors that typically target larger businesses and organizations and that may have pre-existing relationships or purchase commitments, that may have more experienced sales personnel or greater budgetary resources available to target larger customers, or that may be able to bundle other services with an offering that is competitive with ours. Certain types of customers may also have longer sales cycles, less predictability or higher volatility in the amount of data they store with us, increased pricing or negotiation leverage, and increased customer education, prolonged contract negotiations and overall customer engagement needs. In addition, some customers may demand more customization, integration, and support services. Any of these factors could require us to devote greater sales, engineering, marketing, operations, and support services as well as make significant infrastructure changes, which could increase our costs, divert key resources from other current and prospective customers, and otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results. These increased demands and challenges may also be for the benefit of a limited number of customers. In addition, the loss of any larger customers will have a greater impact on our financial results than the loss of smaller customers, which could cause our financial results to fluctuate more significantly from period to period. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our efforts to attract and retain customers will be successful or justify the additional investments in a timely manner, or at all. The material stored using our cloud services may subject us to negative publicity, legal liability, and harm our business. We are not aware of the contents of the data that customers store using our cloud services. While we do have a detailed process to address any third-party complaint regarding illegal or other inappropriate use of our cloud services by a customer that would violate our terms of service, for security and privacy reasons we do not actively monitor the content of data that is being stored with us. To the extent that sensitive, personally identifiable, illegal, or controversial data is stored in our servers and that becomes known publicly, particularly given the highly volatile nature of the political landscape throughout the world and immediate access by individuals to social media platforms with a broad outreach, it may create negative publicity and adversely impact our reputation and harm our business. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Our quarterly results of operations may vary significantly in the future. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and as a result may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Fluctuation in quarterly results may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations include, without limitation: our ability to attract new customers; the amount of customer churn; fluctuations in the amount of data customers store with us; the amount and timing of operating expenses and equipment purchases related to the maintenance and expansion of our business; 13 Table of Contents interruptions or loss of service of our offerings; the timing and success of new product feature and service introductions by us or our competitors; our ability to retain and increase revenue from customers; changes in deferred revenue balances; changes in or timing of cash flows; changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors; security breaches of our systems; our involvement in litigation, or the threat thereof; the length of the sales cycle; the amount and timing of sales commissions, particularly with respect to pipeline, that may precede or exceed the actual corresponding revenue we receive; outbreaks of war or other hostilities, such as the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas hostilities; inflation in the United States, which has recently hit a four decade high, and other regions; the impact of pandemics on our business or that of our customers and partners; the timing of expenses and receipt of perceived benefits related to any acquisitions; changes in laws and regulations that impact our business; and general economic and market conditions. For example, although we do not have a significant amount of customers located in Ukraine and Russia, the Russian-Ukraine conflict has caused oil prices to rise and increased the risk of disruption to the supply chain for oil. The Israel-Hamas conflict also resulted in some similar effects. The hostilities in various places around the world could also escalate further and directly or indirectly involve other countries, including the United States, which could cause a greater impact on us and our customers, partners and supplies. Further, as we continue to grow and scale our business to meet the needs of our customers, we may overestimate or underestimate our infrastructure capacity requirements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The costs associated with leasing and maintaining our custom-built infrastructure in co-location facilities and third-party data centers already constitute a significant portion of our capital and operating expenses. We continuously evaluate our short and long-term infrastructure capacity requirements and seek to ensure adequate capacity for new and existing users while minimizing unnecessary excess capacity costs. However, we may not be able to sufficiently predict future demand, or the availability of hardware or infrastructure necessary to support increased demand on a timely basis. If we overestimate the demand for our platform and therefore secure excess infrastructure capacity or equipment, our gross margins could be reduced. If we underestimate our infrastructure capacity requirements or availability of necessary hardware or infrastructure, we may not be able to service the needs of new and existing customers; durability, reliability, and performance could suffer; our costs could rise; and our business could be harmed. We rely on the performance of key personnel, including our management and other key employees, and the loss of one or more of such personnel, or of a significant number of our team members, could harm our business. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of senior management and other key personnel. Substantially all of our employees, including our senior management, are employed on an at-will basis. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any member of our senior management or other key employees, 14 Table of Contents particularly given that some of these employees may hold equity of the Company that is largely vested, or that we would be able to timely replace members of our senior management or other key employees should any of them depart. The loss of one or more members of our senior management or other key employees could harm our business. The failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could prevent us from executing our business strategy. To execute our business strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for executive officers, software developers, sales personnel, operational personnel, and other key employees in our industry is intense. In particular, we compete with many other companies for software developers with high levels of experience in designing, developing, and managing cloud-based software, as well as for skilled sales and operations professionals. In addition, we believe that the success of our business and corporate culture depends on employing a diverse workforce, and the competition for such personnel is significant. The market for such talented personnel is particularly competitive in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters is located. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we do and can frequently offer such personnel substantially greater compensation than we can offer. In addition, in 2024 we implemented a new commission structure for our sales team and expect to periodically optimize our commission structure. If our sales commission program does not effectively incentivize our sales team at appropriate compensation levels, we may not be successful in retaining or hiring qualified sales personnel, obtaining new customers, increasing sales to our existing customer base, or effectively managing compensation levels. We also rely from time to time on hiring employees from foreign countries, which may require immigration requirements. The immigration process can be subject to frequent changes and limitations, and we may experience difficulty in obtaining visas permitting entry for some of our employees that are foreign nationals into the United States, and delays in obtaining visas permitting entry into other key countries, which could negatively impact our ability to strategically locate our personnel. In addition, we may be unsuccessful at retaining our key employees, and it may take significant time for new employees to achieve full productivity, either of which would adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we fail to attract new personnel, including accomplished executive talent, or if we fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business would be harmed. In addition, if we are unable to hire new employees on a timely basis or reach productive levels in a short time frame, new growth initiatives and other projects may be delayed or otherwise disrupted, which could cause us to miss our performance goals and negatively impact our business. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity, and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. We have a culture that encourages employees to be open, collaborate, strive to do the right thing, and develop and launch new and innovative solutions, which we believe is essential to attracting customers and partners and serving the best, long-term interests of our company. As our business grows and becomes more complex, it may become more difficult to maintain culture aligned across the Company. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, which is critical to our growth, and to effectively focus on and pursue our strategies. If we fail to maintain our company culture, our business and competitive position may be harmed. Our operations and those of our customers, vendors and suppliers outside the United States, are subject to increased business, regulatory and economic risks that could impact our results of operations. In 2024, we derived approximately 26% of our revenue from customers outside of the United States and have customers in over 175 countries worldwide. In addition to a previously existing data center region based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, we also opened a new data center region in Toronto, Canada and wholly owned subsidiary in Canada in January 2025. We may continue to expand our international operations, which may include the establishment of foreign subsidiaries, the opening and expansion of data centers, hiring employees, building out technical infrastructure, and opening offices in foreign jurisdictions. Any new markets or countries into which we attempt to market and sell our cloud services may not be receptive. For example, we may be unable to expand further in some markets if we are unable to satisfy various government- and region-specific requirements, and the increased costs of compliance with local laws and regulations or standards in other countries may further increase the costs and result in delays, and, as a result, we may not be able to recover the cost of these investments, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges and complexities of deploying infrastructure internationally and supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal and regulatory systems, alternative dispute systems, and commercial markets. International expansion has required, and will continue to require, investment of significant funds and other resources. Growth in our international operations will subject us to new risks and may increase risks that we currently face, including risks associated with: 15 Table of Contents higher costs of doing business internationally, including increased energy, infrastructure, accounting, travel, and legal compliance costs; providing our platform, building out the necessary infrastructure and operating our business across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures, including the potential need to modify our platform and features to ensure that they are culturally appropriate and relevant in different countries; compliance with applicable international laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to privacy, data protection, consumer protection, data sovereignty, and unsolicited email, and the risk of penalties to our users and individual members of management or employees if our practices are deemed to be out of compliance, and additional laws and regulations in the United States that are applicable to international operations; compliance with immigration laws, both in the United States and the applicable foreign country, which laws and practices are subject to changes and delays; recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees outside the United States, and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; management of an employee base in jurisdictions that may not give us the same employment and retention flexibility as does the United States; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as does the United States; compliance by us and our business partners with anti-corruption laws, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, and similar laws; import and export control laws; tariffs and trade barriers; economic sanctions; and other regulatory limitations on our ability to provide our cloud services in international markets; foreign exchange controls that might require significant lead time in setting up operations in certain geographic territories; restrictions that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the United States; increased tax complexity, including being subject to regular review and audit by both United States federal and state and foreign tax authorities; taxing authorities of the United States or foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing intercompany arrangements; double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in the income and other tax laws of the United States or the international jurisdictions in which we operate; and political and economic instability in various jurisdictions. Expanding our international operations and complying with applicable laws and regulations may substantially increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. We may also be unable to keep current with changes in laws and regulations as they develop, and we or our employees, contractors, partners, and agents may fail to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any violations could result in enforcement actions, fines, civil and criminal penalties, damages, injunctions, or reputational harm. We also have numerous international partners and suppliers that could result in a direct or indirect impact on our business based on the international risks described above. If we, or our partners and suppliers, are unable to comply with these laws and regulations or manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We store personal information and other customer data, which subjects us to various data privacy laws, governmental regulations, and other related legal obligations, and any actual or perceived failure to comply with such requirements could harm our business. We store personal information and other customer data, as well as use certain cookies on our website, that are subject to numerous federal, state, local, and foreign laws regarding privacy and the storing and protection of personal information and other customer data, and disclosure requirements regarding the use and certain breaches of such laws. For example, we are subject to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (CPRA), among other laws and regulations around the world. Other comprehensive data privacy or data protection laws or regulations requiring local data residency and/or restricting the international transfer of data have been passed or are under consideration in other jurisdictions. In addition, some industries have industry-specific requirements relating to compliance with certain security and regulatory standards, such as those required by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). For example, HIPAA imposes privacy, security, and breach reporting obligations with respect to individually identifiable health information upon covered entities (e.g., health plans, health care clearinghouses, and certain health care providers), and their respective business associates, individuals, or entities that create, receive, maintain or transmit protected health information in connection with providing a service for or on behalf of a covered entity. Such laws give rise to an increasingly complex set of compliance obligations on us regarding our ability to gather, use, and store customer data and customer account data. These privacy and data protection laws are subject to rapid change and differing interpretations, may require limited timeframes to implement changes, and can be inconsistent among regulatory frameworks or conflict with other rules or our business practices. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations, and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection to the extent possible. Our efforts to comply with the complex matrix of data privacy laws around the world subjects us to increasing costs to review and comply with such laws, including updating our policies, procedures, and business practices to address such evolving privacy laws. We also make public statements and commitments regarding our use and disclosure of personal information through our privacy policy, information provided on our website, and data processing agreements with customers and other third parties. Because the interpretation and application of data protection laws, regulations, standards, and other obligations are often uncertain and in flux, and sometimes contradictory, it is possible that the scope and requirements of these laws and other obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices, and our efforts to comply with rapidly evolving data protection laws and obligations may be unsuccessful. For example, we previously relied on the EU-US Privacy Shield framework, which was invalidated by a European court in July 2020. As a result of such a decision, we have had to take additional steps to comply with applicable EU data protection requirements, including implementation of standard contractual clauses. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with applicable privacy and security laws, policies, or related contractual obligations, or any compromise of security that results in unauthorized access, or the use or transmission of personal information or other customer data, could result in a variety of claims against us, including governmental enforcement actions and investigations, audits, inquiries, whistleblower complaints, class action privacy litigation in certain jurisdictions, and proceedings by data protection authorities. For example, under the GDPR we may be subject to fines of up to 20 million or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual group turnover of the preceding financial year, as well as potentially face claims from individuals. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for certain data breaches that result in the loss of personal information. This private right of action may increase the likelihood of, and risks associated with, data breach litigation. The CPRA added new requirements and consumer privacy rights as well as the creation of the California Privacy Protection Agency as a dedicated agency to implement and enforce California state privacy laws, investigate violations and assess penalties. Any new or currently applicable privacy and security laws, policies, or related contractual obligations may be enacted, adopted, or modified, the result of which may impact our compliance efforts, especially when certain emerging privacy laws are still subject to a high degree of uncertainty as to their interpretation, application and impact. Any non-compliance with data privacy requirements could subject us to significant fines and penalties, adverse media coverage, reputational damage, the loss of current and potential customers, loss of export privileges, or criminal or other civil sanctions, any of which could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our business is substantially dependent on mid-market organizations, which may be more vulnerable to market fluctuations and other economic factors, and their vulnerability to such factors could negatively impact our business. If we are unable to successfully market and sell our cloud services to mid-market organizations, our ability to grow our revenue and achieve profitability will be harmed. We expect it will be more difficult and expensive to attract and 17 Table of Contents retain mid-market organization customers than other customers because mid-market organizations are more frequently forced to curtail or cease operations due to the sale or failure of their business; can be more difficult to identify and may require more expensive, targeted sales campaigns; and generally have lesser amounts of data to store than larger organizations, thus requiring us to successfully sell to and support more mid-market organizations for meaningful revenue impact. In addition, mid-market organizations frequently have limited budgets and are more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than larger, more established companies. For example, recent high inflation and recession concerns in the United States could have a greater adverse impact on mid-market organizations. As a result, mid-market organizations may choose to spend funds on items other than our cloud services, particularly during difficult economic times. If we do not achieve continued success among mid-market organizations, our business, operating results, and future growth would be adversely affected. We are dependent on a small number of service offerings, and any reduced market adoption of these offerings would result in lower revenue and harm our business. As a specialized cloud vendor, we are dependent on a small number of offerings focused on cloud storage and computer backup, and a limited number of corresponding use cases. Our B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup offerings have accounted for substantially all of our total revenue to date and we anticipate that they will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. As a result, our revenue could be reduced as a result of any general or industry decline in demand for cloud-based storage solutions, particularly given that we would not have meaningful revenue from other market sectors to offset any temporary or longer-term downturn in demand for cloud-based storage solutions. Adverse economic conditions may adversely impact our revenue and profitability. Our operations and financial performance depend in part on worldwide economic conditions and the impact these conditions have on levels of spending on cloud storage solutions. Our business depends on the overall demand for these products and on the economic health and general willingness of our current and prospective customers to purchase our cloud services. Some of our paying customers may view use of cloud storage services as a discretionary purchase and may reduce their discretionary spending on our cloud services during an economic downturn. Weak economic conditions, whether due to the banking and financial crises, a return of pandemic conditions, inflation, uncertainty relating to the hostilities with Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas, and the potential escalation of geopolitical tensions that could also directly or indirectly involve other countries, including the United States, could cause a reduction in spending on products and solutions storage. Inflation has increased significantly over levels from the last few years in the United States amid a slowing economy and there are numerous indicators suggesting a potential economic recession in the United States and other regions of the world. Any such conditions could reduce sales, lengthen sales cycles, increase customer churn, and lower demand for our cloud services, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We also have been, and may in the future be, subject to increased energy costs, particularly with respect to our data center operations in Europe and elsewhere, which could adversely affect our expenses and business. In addition, the change in administration as a result of the 2024 U.S. presidential election could lead to changes in economic conditions or economic uncertainties in the United States and globally. It is presently unclear exactly what actions the U.S. will implement, and if implemented, how these actions may impact our business. However, changes to global trade dynamics, including the imposition of tariffs, trade restrictions or retaliatory actions, could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our ability to maintain customer adoption and satisfaction depends in part on the ease of use of our cloud services, and any such failure could have an adverse effect on our business. Our success in retaining existing customers and obtaining new customers is dependent in part on the ease of use of our cloud services. If our platform and cloud services, including new service offerings and features as they become available, become more complicated and less easy-to-use, customers could experience increased difficulties or disruption with storing or accessing their data, and we may lose existing customers or experience increased challenges obtaining new customers or existing customers may not choose to use additional features of our cloud services. In addition, our customers sometimes depend on our technical support services to resolve issues relating to our platform. If we do not succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve issues or provide effective ongoing education related to our platform, our reputation and business may be harmed. Future acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands, and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may choose to do so through the acquisition of 18 Table of Contents complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and we may be unable to successfully complete proposed acquisitions. The risks we face in connection with acquisitions include: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges; coordination of research and development, operational, and sales and marketing functions; retention of key employees from the acquired company; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; integration of the acquired companys accounting, management information, human resources, and other administrative systems; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures, and policies; liability for activities of the acquired company prior to our acquisition of them, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; unanticipated write-offs or charges; and litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental operating expenses, or the write-off of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition or operating results. We may require additional capital to support our operations or the growth of our business, and we cannot be certain that this capital will be available on reasonable terms when required, or at all. We may need additional financing to operate or grow our business. Our ability to obtain additional financing, if and when required, will depend on investor and lender demand, our operating performance, the condition of the capital markets, and other factors. For example, we often use leases to finance the equipment we use to provide our cloud-based services. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced significant volatility, including with respect to technology stocks, due to high inflation, various economic headwinds and other factors. In the event of a failure of any financial institutions where we maintain deposits, we may lose timely access to our funds at such institutions and incur significant losses to the extent our funds exceed the $250,000 limit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In addition, we use one or more commercial banks for our banking needs. While we and the banks we have used to date have not been directly affected by the failures of certain banks in 2023, the banking industry overall has experienced disruption, greater uncertainty, and tightened lending standards. This may result in reduced access to capital, increased costs of capital, and reduced opportunities to invest with investment grade securities, which could also lower investment yields and investment income. Any such impact could have a material adverse effect upon our liquidity and business. In addition, in December 2024, we terminated our loan and security agreement with City National Bank, which included a revolving line of credit. While that line of credit was limited due to a requirement to fully collateralize any loan amounts by cash, we do not currently have a replacement line of credit or other equivalent arrangement. Without additional access to these kinds of capital on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we may not be able to respond to increased demand for our cloud services on a timely or cost-effective basis. We cannot guarantee that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked, or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to the rights of our Class A common stock, and our existing stockholders may experience dilution. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support the operation or growth of our business could be significantly impaired and our operating results may be harmed. 19 Table of Contents We are an emerging growth company, and any decision on our part to comply only with certain reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, and for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies, including: not being required to have our independent registered public accounting firm audit our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the Sarbanes Oxley Act), reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to avail ourselves of this accommodation allowing for delayed adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and therefore, we will not be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years following the completion of our IPO or until we reach certain thresholds. Investors may find our common stock less attractive due to our election to rely on these exemptions and there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and the market price of our common stock may be more volatile. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our results of operations. All of our sales contracts, and substantially all of our operations and related financial arrangements, are currently denominated in U.S. dollars and therefore, our revenue and business operations are not directly subject to significant foreign currency risk. However, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost of our cloud services to our customers outside of the United States, which could reduce demand for our cloud services and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as we expand our international operations, we may become more exposed to foreign currency risk and may have some of our sales and other operations denominated in one or more currencies other than the U.S. dollar. If we become more exposed to currency fluctuations and are unable to successfully hedge against the risks associated with currency fluctuations, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Certain of our market opportunity estimates, growth forecasts, and other metrics included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could prove to be inaccurate, and any real or perceived inaccuracies may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. Certain estimates and information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including general expectations concerning our industry and the market in which we operate, market opportunity, and market size, are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. Moreover, much of this information is based on information provided by third-party providers. Although we believe the information from such third-party sources is reliable, we have not independently verified the accuracy or completeness of the data contained in such third-party sources or the methodologies for collecting such data, and such information may also not prove to be accurate. If there are any limitations or errors with respect to such data or methodologies, our business opportunities may be limited, which could negatively affect our shares of common stock. Even if the markets in which we compete meet the size estimates and growth forecasted in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. Any future litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. We are and may become subject to legal proceedings, investigations, and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. For example, we are and may be subject to claims brought by customers, vendors or other third parties in connection with various types of disputes, including relating to commercial or contract matters, violation of securities laws, intellectual property laws or other laws, or privacy or other data breaches, or employment claims made by our current or former employees. Litigation can often be expensive, even when there is a successful outcome, and can divert managements attention and resources, which could harm our business and financial condition. Any adverse outcome could also result in significant monetary damages or other types of unfavorable relief, which could harm our business as well as our reputation. Although we may have various insurance policies, insurance might not cover such claims or provide sufficient payments to cover all the costs to resolve one or more such claims, and might not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements. In addition, we are also and may also be subject to subpoena requests from third parties as well as governmental agencies 20 Table of Contents from time to time that require us to provide certain information relating to matters targeted against other third parties, which can be time consuming. Risks Related to Reliance on Infrastructure and Third Parties We rely on third-party vendors and suppliers, including data center and hard drive providers, which may have limited sources of supply, and this reliance exposes us to potential supply and service disruptions that could harm our business. We depend on a limited number of third-party data centers and other providers to safely house our equipment and provide sufficient power, bandwidth, and other infrastructure needs to support our operations and cloud services. To support our anticipated growth and as we develop and implement new product features we may require more computing infrastructure, which may include the opening and expansion of data centers. The risks we face in connection with the opening and expansion of data centers include: we may not be able to find suitable third-party data center locations with sufficient power, or bandwidth, or such data center locations may not be available on commercially reasonable terms; we will be required to commit substantial operational and financial resources to open new data centers, and we may not have sufficient customer demand in those markets to support the new data centers; unanticipated delays in the completion of such projects or availability of components may lead to increased project costs, operational inefficiencies, or interruptions in the delivery or degradation of quality of our service; issues that are not identified during the testing phases of design and implementation, which may only become evident after we have started to fully utilize the underlying equipment, could disrupt the delivery of our cloud services to customers or increase our costs; and unanticipated technological changes could affect customer requirements for data centers, and we may not have built such requirements into our new data centers. We also rely on key components for our platform, including hard drives and semiconductors, which come from limited sources of supply. Any decrease in hard drive availability could negatively impact our operations. Various events, including without limitation, periodic semiconductor industry shortages, a pandemic or fluctuating demands in AI, could impact our ability to source components in a timely and cost-effective manner from third-party suppliers. From time to time, we may also seek to mitigate the impact of potential supply chain disruptions by acquiring additional hard drives and related infrastructure, which can result in a higher balance of capital equipment and related lease liability, an increase in cash used in financing activities from principal payments, as well as a higher ongoing interest and depreciation expense related to any additional lease agreements. Current or future supply chain interruptions could be triggered or exacerbated by global political tensions, such as the imposition, or threat of potential imposition, of tariffs or other trade restrictions, hostilities or tensions such as the Russia-Ukraine, Israel-Hamas and China-Taiwan conflicts, particularly if those tensions escalate into an armed conflict or directly or indirectly involve other countries, which may include the implementation of trade barriers, including boycotts or the use of economic sanctions and export control restrictions, any of which could negatively impact our ability to acquire hard drives and semiconductors. In addition, our business could be harmed in the event of any industry consolidations, acquisitions, other restructuring events or bankruptcies. For example, in September 2023, Toshiba Corp., one of our hard drive suppliers, announced the completion of a buy-out by various private equity firms and others. Also, in October 2023, Western Digital, another one of our hard drive suppliers, announced that it would spin-out its hard drive and other selected businesses into a separate company. Although the Toshiba buyout and Western Digital spin-out have not resulted in any material impact to our business to date, such industry consolidations, acquisitions or other restructuring events of third party vendors or partners may increase the likelihood of closure or other changes at such vendors and partners that could adversely affect our business. Also, a third party vendor that operated one of our multiple data center locations filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 under the United States Bankruptcy Code in 2022. This bankruptcy matter was resolved without disruption to normal operations, but future bankruptcies or similar actions affecting our third-party hosted data center providers could result in disruptions to the company, and access to customer data may become unavailable or customer data could be lost, and it may take a significant period of time to achieve full resumption of our cloud services. Any shortage of key components, including hard drives, could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide our cloud services, as well as negatively impact our financial results by increasing our costs, lease liabilities, interest and depreciation expenses, and inventory levels. Shortages or pricing fluctuations could be material in the future. In the event of a shortage, supply interruption, material pricing change or other significant events involving 21 Table of Contents one of our suppliers, we may be unable to develop alternate sources in a timely manner or at all. Developing alternate sources of supply for these infrastructure needs, and transitioning our customers data from one provider to another, may result in loss of availability of our services for a period of time, be time-consuming, costly, difficult, and increase the risk of damage and loss. We may also be unable to source them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, which may undermine our ability to operate or scale our platform and harm our business. Our business depends, in part, on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties. To maintain and grow our business, we anticipate that we will continue to depend on relationships with third parties, such as channel partners and integrators, which are becoming an increasingly important part of our business and our sales and marketing strategy. Identifying partners and negotiating and building relationships with them requires significant time and resources. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their services over us. In addition, any industry consolidation of such partners or integrators by our competitors or others could result in a decrease in the number of our current and potential customers, as these partners or integrators may no longer facilitate the adoption of our applications by potential customers. Interoperability between our platform and other third-party platforms is also important to our business. Further, some of our partners or integrators are or may become competitive with certain aspects of our cloud services and may elect to no longer integrate with, or support, our platform and cloud services. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with such third parties and maintaining interoperability, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenue could be impaired, and our business may suffer. Even if we are successful, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in increased customer usage of our cloud services or increased revenue. Our business is exposed to risks associated with online payment processing methods. Many of our customers pay for our cloud services and products using credit cards. We rely on internal systems as well as those of third parties, including Stripe, to process payments. Acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees. To the extent there are increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, such as large re-issuances of payment cards, delays in receiving payments from payment processors, changes to rules or regulations concerning payment processing, loss of payment partners, and/or disruptions or failures in our payment processing systems or payment products, including products we use to update payment information, our revenue, operating expenses, and results of operation could be adversely impacted. For example, in response to the Russian attack on Ukraine that began in February 2022, the United States and many other countries began imposing sanctions on Russia and certain other regions, including goods and services imported and exported to Russia and certain other regions. In addition, various banking institutions and companies, including Stripe and credit card companies, began prohibiting any payments from persons located in Russia, which impacts our ability to receive payments from, and transact certain types of business operations with, our customers, and potential new customers, that are located in those regions. Although we do not have a significant number of customers located in those regions, such actions will have some impact on our business. It is also difficult to predict how long the conflict may last, how the conflict could escalate, and how the sanctions may evolve, which could cause a greater adverse impact on our business and operations than we expect. We rely on third-party software for certain essential financial and operational services, and a failure or disruption in these services could materially and adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. We rely on third-party software to provide many essential financial and operational services to support our business, including HubSpot, NetSuite, FireHydrant, and Zendesk. Some of these vendors are less established and have shorter operating histories than traditional software vendors. Moreover, many of these vendors provide their services to us via a cloud-based model instead of software that is installed on our premises. As a result, we depend upon these vendors to provide us with services that are always available and are free of errors or defects that could cause disruptions in our business processes. Any failure by these vendors to do so, or any disruption in our ability to access the internet, would materially and adversely affect our ability to manage our operations, disrupt the delivery of our cloud services to customers, and affect other areas such as our ability to timely provide required financial reporting. 22 Table of Contents We are an emerging growth company, which provides, among other things, reduced disclosure requirements, and any decision on our part to comply only with reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to such companies could make our Common Stock less attractive to investors. As of June 30, 2024, we continued to qualify as an emerging growth company, as defined in the securities law. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we have taken, and may continue to take, advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.These exemptions include, but are not limited to, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, reduced certain financial disclosure requirements and exemption from the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. By taking advantage of some or all of the reduced disclosure requirements available to emerging growth companies, investors may find our common stock less attractive, which may result in a less active trading market for our common stock and greater stock price volatility. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of December 31, 2026 or (i) as of June 30, 2025, our public float is less than $700 million; (ii) our total annual gross revenues do not exceed $1.235 billion or more during a fiscal year, or (iii) we issue less than $1 billion in non-convertible debt over the past three years. We were previously a smaller reporting company under the securities laws, and therefore able to take advantage of various reduced financial and other disclosure obligations and requirements.However, as of June 30, 2024, we exceeded the applicable threshold to qualify as a smaller reporting company. As a result, while we are still able to utilize the reduced financial and other disclosure obligations and requirements applicable to smaller reporting companies for our 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 (and still qualify as an emerging growth company as noted above), we will not be able to utilize the smaller reporting company status for the foreseeable future thereafter. In addition, we now qualify as an accelerated filer pursuant to SEC rules and are subject to such requirements, including an accelerated timeframe to file our annual report on Form 10-K beginning for fiscal year 2024 and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.Although we expect to be able to file such reports on a timely basis, compliance with the accelerated timeframe creates additional challenges and strain on resources, particularly in the finance and accounting department. Risks Related to Accounting and Tax Matters The failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could harm our business and negatively impact the value of our common stock. We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, which we remediated. However, if we are not able to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or timely file our periodic reports. As a result, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and the market price of our common stock may be materially impacted. We have dedicated significant effort and resources towards measures to remediate the identified material weaknesses (see Part II, Item 9A.