ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our un audited financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for the year ended December 31, 2021 included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. This discussion, particularly information with respect to our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans, and objectives of management for future operations, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading "Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should review the disclosure under the heading "Risk Factors" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described or implied in these forward-looking statements. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this report to "Backblaze," the Company, "we," "our," "us," or similar terms refer to Backblaze, Inc. Overview We are a leading storage cloud platform, providing businesses and consumers cloud services to store, use, and protect their data in an easy and affordable manner. We provide these cloud services through a purpose-built, web-scale software infrastructure built on commodity hardware. We believe that by substantially reducing the complexity and frustration of storing, using, and protecting data, we can empower customers to focus on their core business operations. Through our blog and culture of transparency, we have built a community of millions of readers and brand advocates. Referrals from our community of brand advocates, com bined with our highly efficient and primarily self-serve customer acquisition model and an ecosystem of thousands of partners, have allowed us to attract approximately 500,000 customers as of December 31, 2021. These customers use our Storage Cloud platform across more than 175 countries to grow and protect their business data on our approximately 2 exabytes, or 2 trillion megabytes, of data storage under management. Our Backblaze Storage Cloud provides a platform that is the foundation for our B2 Cloud Storage Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) consumption-based offering and our Backblaze Computer Backup Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) subscription-based offering. B2 Cloud Storage enables customers to store data, developers to build applications, and partners to expand their use cases. The amount of data stored in this cloud service can scale up and down as needed primarily on a pay-as-you-go basis. Backblaze Computer Backup automatically backs up data from laptops and desktops for businesses and individuals. This cloud backup service offers easily understood primarily flat-rate pricing to continuously back up a virtually unlimited amount of data. Our operations have historically been efficient with limited outside investment. Prior to issuing $10.0 million of convertible notes (which we also refer to as a Simple Agreement for Future Equity agreement (SAFE)) in a private financing round in August 2021, we had raised less than $3.0 million in outside equity since our founding in 2007. This has helped create a historical focus on operational efficiency, creativity, and collaborative problem solving. We believe that focusing on storage use cases and promoting an open ecosystem allows us to integrate well with a broad range of partners. We have consistently invested in our technology platform and highly efficient content-driven and primarily self-serve go-to-market strategy, allowing us to achieve customer, community, and product milestones. Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that the future growth and performance of our business will depend on several factors, including the following: Scale Self Service Customer Acquisition Our business depends, in part, on our ability to add new customers. We believe there is a significant opportunity to further grow our customer base by continuing to make investments in sales and marketing. We will continue investing in our customer acquisition and inbound demand generation activities, which is driven predominantly by our blog content, our case studies, social sharing, earned media, and our self-serve sign up model. We intend to leverage this model as an efficient approach to attract new customers, turning them into brand advocates, partners, and more referrals. Furthermore, we plan to continue to build and scale our paid lead generation and outbound sales motion to increasingly grow in the mid-market. 24 Table of Contents We also plan to continue to build our ecosystem of partners. We believe that delivering our Storage Cloud solutions through our alliance, developer, and MSP partnerships is an area of opportunity for us. By adding more partners and deepening our relationships with them, we expand our use cases and drive new customer acquisition. Scale Sales-Assisted Efforts We believe an increasingly important complement to our self-serve customer acquisition model is our targeted inside Sales team that is focused on a low-touch sales-assisted model that supports our larger customers if the need arises. This team focuses on inbound inquiries, outbound prospecting targeting specific use cases, and volume expansion of our self-serve customers. Expansion Within Existing Customers Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to increase usage and adoption of our solutions with existing customers. We intend to increase revenue from existing customer relationships through the development of additional features and use cases, expanding our Customer Success initiatives, and natural customer data growth. We have developed add-on services, such as Extended Version History and multi-region selection, which customers pay for on top of existing offerings. Examples of expanding use cases include utilizing Backblaze for additional purposes such as media storage, hybrid cloud support, analytics repositories, and others. We also plan to grow our Customer Success initiatives to ensure customers avail themselves of the full benefits of our platform, thus resulting in increased adoption. As these customers continue to generate, store, and back up data, their use of our platform increases, creating natural opportunities for revenue expansion. Continued Platform Investment and New Product Launches We are committed to delivering market-leading products that continue to make cloud storage and backup easy. We believe we must maintain our product quality and strength of our brand in order to retain the current customer base as well as drive further revenue growth in our business. We intend to continue investing in our research and development activities to build upon our strong position in the technology community. We also plan to launch new products that are adjacent to our current offerings, which will provide us with the ability to further cross-sell and upsell. Investments for Continued Scaling We are focused on our long-term revenue potential and building out our infrastructure to sustain that growth. On a routine basis, we will focus resources on optimizing the efficiency of our data storage. In some scenarios, we will choose to pass on potential cost savings to the customer, but in other scenarios we will choose to reinvest cost savings back into infrastructure and design. International Expansion While our sales and marketing investments have primarily focused on the United States, our existing customer base spans more than 175 countries, with 28% of our revenue originating outside of the United States for the year ended December 31, 2021. We believe international expansion represents a mea ningful opportunity to generate further demand for our solutions in international geographies. We plan to invest in our operations internationally to reach new customers by expanding in targeted key geographies where we believe there are opportunities for significant return on investment. 25 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics We monitor the key business metrics set forth below to help us evaluate our business and growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing investments, and assess operational efficiencies. The calculation of the key metrics discussed below may differ from other similarly titled metrics used by other companies, securities analysts, or investors. June 30, 2022 2021 B2 Cloud Storage Net revenue retention rate (NRR) 126 % 132 % Gross customer retention rate 90 % 89 % Annual recurring revenue (in millions) $ 31.3 $ 21.8 Computer Backup Net revenue retention rate (NRR) 107 % 102 % Gross customer retention rate 91 % 91 % Annual recurring revenue (in millions) $ 51.4 $ 43.0 Total Company Net revenue retention rate (NRR) 113 % 110 % Gross customer retention rate 91 % 91 % Annual recurring revenue (in millions) $ 82.7 $ 64.8 Net Revenue Retention Rate We believe the growth in use of our platform by our existing customers is an important measure of the health of our business and our future growth prospects. We measure this growth by monitoring our overall net revenue retention rate, which measures our ability to retain and expand revenue from existing customers. We believe that we can drive this metric by continuing to focus on our customers and by adding additional products and functionality to our platform. Our overall net revenue retention rate is a trailing four-quarter average of the recurring revenue from a cohort of customers in a quarter as compared to the same quarter in the prior year. We calculate our overall net revenue retention rate for a quarter by dividing (i) recurring revenue in the current quarter from any accounts that were active at the end of the same quarter of the prior year by (ii) recurring revenue in the current corresponding quarter from those same accounts. Our overall net revenue retention rate includes any expansion of revenue from existing customers and is net of revenue contraction and customer attrition, and excludes revenue from new customers in the current period. Our net revenue retention rate for B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup is calculated in the same manner as our overall net revenue retention rate based on the revenue from our B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup solutions, respectively. Gross Customer Retention Rate We use gross customer retention rate to measure our ability to retain our customers. Our gross customer retention rate reflects only customer losses and does not reflect the expansion or contraction of revenue we earn from our existing customers. We believe our high gross customer retention rates demonstrate that we serve a vital service to our customers, as the vast majority of our customers tend to continue to use our platform from one period to the next. To calculate our gross customer retention rate, we take the trailing four-quarter average of the percentage of cohort of customers who were active at the end of the quarter in the prior year that are still active at the end of the current quarter. We calculate our gross customer retention rate for a quarter by dividing (i) the number of accounts that generated revenue in the last month of the current quarter that also generated recurring revenue during the last month of the corresponding quarter in the prior year, by (ii) the number of accounts that generated recurring revenue during the last month of the corresponding quarter in the prior year. 26 Table of Contents Annual Recurring Revenue We define annual recurring revenue (ARR) as the annualized value of all B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup arrangements as of the end of a period. Given the renewable nature of our business, we view ARR as an important indicator of our financial performance and operating results, and we believe it is a useful metric for internal planning and analysis. ARR is calculated based on multiplying the monthly revenue from all B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup arrangements, which represent greater than 98% of our revenue for the periods presented (and excludes Physical Media revenue), for the last month of a period by 12. Our annual recurring revenue for B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup is calculated in the same manner as our overall annual recurring revenue based on the revenue from our Computer Backup and B2 Cloud Storage solutions, respectively. See Notes to our financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 for more information on revenue from B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup arrangements. ARR does not have a standardized meaning and is therefore unlikely to be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and is not intended to be combined with or to replace that item. ARR is not a forecast and the active contracts at the end of a reporting period used in calculating ARR may or may not be extended or renewed by our customers. While ARR is not a guarantee of future revenue, we consider over 98% of our revenue recurring for the periods presented. As noted above, our gross customer retention rate has been consis tent over the periods presented at approximately 90%. Although B2 Cloud Storage is paid for by customers in arrears, we recognize revenue in the month these storage services are delivered, and consider this revenue recurring as customers are charged as long as their data is stored with us. Further, during the periods presented, customers who store data with us generally increase the amount of their data stored over time, as evidenced by our B2 Cloud Storage net revenue retention rate of 126% as of June 30, 2022. Fees from B2 Cloud Storage (consumption-based arrangements) are recognized as services are delivered. Computer Backup (subscription-based arrangements) revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the contractual term of the arrangement beginning on the date that the service commences, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. See Notes to the financial statements for details on our revenue recognition policy. Additional limitations of ARR include the fact that consumption-based revenue is not guaranteed for future periods, although we believe that our high historic gross customer retention rate is indicative of ARR, and the fact that our subscription terms can be on a monthly basis, although the significant majority of our customers have subscription terms of one year or longer during the periods presented above. Additional Key Business Metrics Calculation Notes The metrics for net revenue retention rate and gross customer retention rate are currently calculated using only those customers paying by credit card and exclude customers paying by invoice utilizing a different system. The amounts related to the number of customers paying by invoice has historically been immaterial. Impact of COVID-19 The worldwide spread of COVID-19 has created significant uncertainty in the global economy. There have been no comparable recent events that provide guidance as to the effect the spread of COVID-19 as a global pandemic may have, and, as a result, the ultimate impact of COVID-19 and the extent to which COVID-19 continues to impact our business will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict. While the full impact of the pandemic to our business remains unknown and we believe that our results of operations and financial condition have not been materially adversely impacted to date, we also believe that the pandemic has had some impact on our business. Our potential customers, customers, or partners may have experienced, or in the future could experience, downturns or uncertainty in their own business operations due to COVID-19, which may have affected or could affect purchasing and operating decisions. For example, although we believe our ability to retain customers has not been materially impacted by the pandemic, we also believe that the pandemic may have caused some customers to reduce their use of cloud storage with us or to delay increasing their use of our cloud storage offerings. In addition, the pandemic may have caused potential customers to delay their purchasing decisions or to store less data with us. We may also experience customer losses due to customer bankruptcy or cessation of operations, or otherwise. In addition to the impact on customers, the pandemic has had some impact to our supply chain. For example, starting in April 2020, we began to acquire additional hard drives and related infrastructure through finance lease agreements in order to minimize the impact of potential supply chain disruptions due to the pandemic. The additional leased hard drives 27 Table of Contents resulted in a higher balance of capital equipment and related lease liability, an increase in cash used in financing activities from principal payments, as well as a higher ongoing interest and depreciation expense related to these lease agreements. Accordingly, our supply chain in the future may be disrupted, or we may be unable to obtain infrastructure and related equipment essential to our business on favorable terms or at all. However, based on the impact from the pandemic to date, we believe we have sufficient reserves to minimize any material impact to our business operations should such a disruption occur. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in the first quarter of 2020, we temporarily and periodically closed our office, enabled our non-essential workforce to work remotely, and implemented travel restrictions for non-essential business. Our offices have reopened during the six months ended June 30, 2022 , however, the remaining changes still apply and could potentially extend into future quarters. The changes we have implemented to date have not affected and are not expected to materially affect our ability to maintain operations, including financial reporting systems, internal controls over financial reporting, and disclosure