ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for the year ended December 31, 2024 included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 (our Annual Report). This discussion, particularly information with respect to our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans, and objectives of management for future operations, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading "Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should review the disclosure under the heading "Risk Factors" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described or implied in these forward-looking statements. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this report to "Backblaze," the Company, "we," "our," "us," or similar terms refer to Backblaze, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a leading specialized storage cloud platform, providing businesses and consumers with cloud services to store, use, and protect their data in an easy and affordable manner. We provide these cloud services through a purpose-built, web-scale software infrastructure built on commodity hardware. We believe that by offering an easy-to-use, cost-effective, performant cloud storage solution, and thereby substantially reducing the cost, complexity and frustration of storing, using, and protecting data, we can empower customers to focus on their core business operations. Customers use us to support their AI workflows, help ensure the cyber-resilience of their organizations, streamline their media workflows, and enable a variety of other data-focused application and IT needs. Through our blog and culture of transparency, we have built a community of millions of readers and brand advocates. Our direct sales activities, channel and technology partners, and referrals from our community of brand advocates, combined with our highly efficient and self-serve customer acquisition model have allowed us to attract over 500,000 customers, and our direct sales activities have historically supported us in acquiring larger customers. As we seek to move up-market, we expect our direct sales activities to increasingly contribute to the acquisition of these customers. Our customers use our Storage Cloud platform across more than 175 countries to store and protect their data with an aggregate of approximately 4 billion gigabytes of data storage under management. Our Backblaze Storage Cloud provides a platform that is the foundation for our B2 Cloud Storage Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offering and our Backblaze Computer Backup Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) offering. B2 Cloud Storage enables customers to store data, developers to build applications, and partners to expand their use cases. The amount of data stored in this cloud service can scale up and down as needed primarily on a pay-as-you-go basis or can be paid for on a capacity or committed contract basis for greater predictability. Backblaze Computer Backup automatically backs up data from laptops and desktops for businesses and individuals. This cloud backup service offers easily understood primarily flat-rate pricing to continuously back up a virtually unlimited amount of data. We believe that focusing on storage use cases and promoting an open cloud ecosystem allows us to integrate well with a broad range of partners. We have consistently invested in innovation, showcased by our technology platform and related features, allowing us to achieve customer, community, and product milestones. Starting in the second half of 2024, we initiated a go-to-market transformation that is actively moving the company up-market, which has been evidenced by the signing of multiple deals valued at over $1.0 million each. We also continue to innovate to further drive differentiated value for these larger customers. During the second quarter of 2025, we conducted a study on the useful lives of our property and equipment, resulting in an extension of the useful life of our infrastructure equipment. This change is anticipated to result in a reduction in depreciation expense of approximately $5.0 million for the remainder of the year. See Note 16 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. 21 Table of Contents Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that the future growth and performance of our business will depend on several factors, including the following: Scale Sales Efforts We believe an increasingly important customer acquisition model is our targeted direct sales team that is focused on larger customers as well as our channel and partner sales teams. We intend to enhance and grow our sales team with the goal of expanding our customer base and targeting larger clients. We also plan to continue to build our ecosystem of partners. We believe that delivering our Storage Cloud solutions through our alliance, developer, channel, and managed service provider partnerships is an area of opportunity for us. By adding more partners and deepening our relationships with them, we expand our use cases and drive new customer acquisition. Scale Self Service Customer Acquisition Our business depends, in part, on our ability to add new customers. We believe there is a significant opportunity to further grow our customer base by continuing to make investments in sales and marketing. We will continue investing in our customer acquisition activities, which is driven predominantly by our blog content, our case studies, social sharing, earned media, and our self-serve sign up model. We also will continue investing in optimizing the conversion rate of visitors to customers. We intend to leverage this model as an efficient approach to attract new customers, turning them into brand advocates, partners, and more referrals. Expansion Within Existing Customers Our future success will depend in part on our ability to increase usage and adoption of our solutions with existing customers. We intend to increase revenue from existing customer relationships through the development of additional features and use cases, expanding our Customer Success initiatives, and natural customer data growth. We have developed add-on services, such as Enterprise Control and multi-region selection, which customers pay for on top of existing offerings. Examples of expanding use cases include utilizing Backblaze for additional purposes such as media storage, hybrid cloud support, analytics repositories, and others. We also plan to grow our Customer Success initiatives to ensure customers avail themselves of the full benefits of our platform, thus resulting in increased adoption. As these customers continue to generate, store, and back up data, their use of our platform increases, creating natural opportunities for revenue expansion. Continued Platform Investment and New Product Launches We are committed to delivering market-leading products that continue to make cloud storage and backup easy. We believe we must maintain our product and platform quality and strength of our brand in order to retain the current customer base as well as drive further revenue growth in our business. We intend to continue investing in our research and development activities to build upon our strong position in the technology community. We also plan to launch new products that are adjacent to our current offerings, which will provide us with the ability to further cross-sell and upsell. In April 2025, we launched B2 Overdrive, a new offering that provides the leading throughput to price performance ratio in the market. This new offering is targeting AI use cases, which need to move large amounts of data in a short timeframe. International Expansion While our sales and marketing efforts have primarily focused on the United States, our existing customer base spans more than 175 countries, with 27%of our total revenue originating outside of the United States for the three months ended March 31, 2025. We believe international expansion may represent a meaningful opportunity. We may invest in our operations internationally to reach new customers by expanding into targeted key geographies where we believe there are opportunities for significant return on investment. In January 2025, for example, we collaborated with a leading hybrid cloud solutions provider in Canada to extend our market reach in this region. This collaboration led to the launch of a new data center region in Canada in January 2025. 22 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics We monitor the key business metrics set forth below to help us evaluate our business and growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing investments, and assess operational efficiencies. The calculation of the key metrics discussed below may differ from other similarly titled metrics used by other companies, securities analysts or investors. March 31, 2025 2024 B2 Cloud Storage Net revenue retention rate 117 % 126 % Gross customer retention rate 89 % 89 % Annual recurring revenue (in millions) $ 73.8 $ 59.5 Computer Backup Net revenue retention rate 108 % 101 % Gross customer retention rate 90 % 91 % Annual recurring revenue (in millions) $ 67.0 $ 62.6 Total Company Net revenue retention rate 113 % 112 % Gross customer retention rate 90 % 91 % Annual recurring revenue (in millions) $ 140.8 $ 122.1 Net Revenue Retention Rate We believe the growth in the use of our platform by our existing customers is an important measure of the health of our business and our future growth prospects. We measure this growth by monitoring our overall net revenue retention rate, which measures our ability to retain and expand revenue from existing customers. Our continued focus on our customers is driving significant revenue retention, as evidenced by our overall net revenue retention rates (NRRs) of 113% and 112% as of March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, respectively. The enhancement of our B2 Cloud Storage offerings is a key contributor to this success, resulting in NRRs of 117% and 126% for the same periods. The decrease in the NRR for B2 is largely driven by the lapped impact of the October 2023 price increase, which we announced during the third quarter of 2023, and resulted in pricing increases across our Computer Backup and B2 Cloud Storage products. To calculate the NRR for a specific quarter, we determine the revenue recognized in that quarter from customers who generated revenue during the same quarter of the previous year. This revenue is then divided by the revenue generated in the prior year quarter. Our overall NRR rate is calculated as the average of these quarterly rates over the past four quarters to provide a comprehensive view of revenue trends. Gross Customer Retention Rate We use gross customer retention rate to measure our ability to retain our customers. Our gross customer retention rate reflects only customer losses and does not reflect the expansion or contraction of revenue we earn from our existing customers. We have maintained gross customer retention rates of approximately 90% across our revenue products as of both March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024. We believe our high gross customer retention rates demonstrate that we provide a vital service to our customers, as the vast majority of our customers tend to continue to use our platform from one period to the next. To calculate our gross customer retention rate, we take the trailing four-quarter average of our quarterly gross customer retention rates. We calculate the quarterly gross customer retention rates by dividing (i) the number of accounts that generated revenue in the last month of the current quarter that also generated recurring revenue during the last month of the corresponding quarter in the prior year, by (ii) the number of accounts that generated recurring revenue during the last month of the corresponding quarter in the prior year. 23 Table of Contents Annual Recurring Revenue We define annual recurring revenue (ARR) as the annualized value of all B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup arrangements as of the end of a period. Given the renewable nature of our business, we view ARR as an important indicator of our financial performance and operating results, and we believe it is a useful metric for internal planning and analysis. ARR is calculated based on multiplying the monthly revenue from all B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup arrangements, which represent greater than 98% of our total revenue for the periods presented (and excludes Physical Media revenue), for the last month of a period by 12. Our annual recurring revenue for B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup is calculated in the same manner as our overall ARR based on the revenue from our Computer Backup and B2 Cloud Storage solutions, respectively. See Note 3 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information on revenue from B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup arrangements. ARR does not have a standardized meaning and is therefore unlikely to be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and is not intended to be combined with or to replace that item. ARR is not a forecast and the active contracts at the end of a reporting period used in calculating ARR may or may not be extended or renewed by our customers. While ARR is not a guarantee of future revenue, we consider substantially all of our revenue as recurring in nature for the periods presented. As noted above, our gross customer retention rate has been consistent over the periods presented at approximately 90%. Although B2 Cloud Storage is generally paid for by customers in arrears, we recognize revenue in the month these storage services are delivered and consider this revenue recurring as customers are charged as long as their data is stored with us. Further, during the periods presented, customers who store data with us generally increase the amount of their data stored over time, as evidenced by our B2 Cloud Storage net revenue retention rate of 117% as of March 31, 2025. Fees from B2 Cloud Storage (consumption-based arrangements) are recognized as services are delivered. Computer Backup (subscription-based arrangements) revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the contractual term of the arrangement beginning on the date that the service commences, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. See Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report for details on our revenue recognition policy. Additional limitations of ARR include the fact that consumption-based revenue is not guaranteed for future periods, although we believe that our high historic gross customer retention rate is indicative of ARR, and the fact that our subscription terms can be on a monthly basis, although the significant majority of our customers have subscription terms of one year or longer during the periods presented above. Changes to recurring revenue may result from the expansion of our offerings to our existing customers, as well as new customer acquisition and the timing of customer renewals. Our ARR increased by $14.3 million for B2 Cloud Storage and $4.4 million for Computer Backup as of March 31, 2025 compared to March 31, 2024, representing 24% and 7% growth, respectively. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily from our B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup cloud services offered on our platform. Our platform is offered to our customers primarily through either a consumption or committed contract basis or a subscription-based arrangement through B2 Cloud Storage and Computer Backup, respectively. Our subscription arrangements generally range in duration from one month to five years, for which we bill our customers up front for the entire period. Consumption-based revenue is variable and is related to fees charged for our customers use of our platform and is recognized as revenue in the period in which the consumption occurs. For our subscription arrangements, we provide our cloud services evenly over the contractual period, for which revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term beginning on the date that the service is made available to the customer. 24 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists of our expenses in providing our platform and cloud services to our customers. These expenses include operating in colocation facilities, network and bandwidth costs, and depreciation of our equipment and finance leased equipment in colocation facilities. Personnel-related costs associated with customer support and maintaining service availability, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation are also included. Cost of revenue also includes credit card processing fees, amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs, and allocated overhead costs. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our infrastructure to support the growth of our business. Some of these investments, including costs of infrastructure equipment (including related depreciation) and expansion, and software development costs and related amortization are incurred in advance of generating revenue, and either the failure to generate anticipated revenue or fluctuations in the timing of revenue could affect our gross margin from period to period. As discussed above, during the second quarter of 2025, we conducted a study on the useful lives of our property and equipment, resulting in an extension of the useful life of our infrastructure equipment. This change is anticipated to result in a reduction in depreciation expense of approximately $5.0 million for the remainder of the year. Operating Expenses The most significant components of our operating expenses are personnel costs, which consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. We expect that our operating expenses, excluding depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation expenses, to remain relatively flat during 2025 compared to the prior year as a result of our restructuring activities in 2024; however, some of our sales and marketing expenses may increase as we continue to ramp up our hiring and external marketing spend over time in absolute dollars as we grow our business. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of our investment in personnel costs, costs related to infrastructure engineering, and an allocation of certain facility and IT-related expenses. We capitalize the portion of our software development costs that meets the criteria for capitalization. We expect our investment in research and development to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to focus our research and development investments on adding new features to our platform, improving our cloud service offerings, and increasing the functionality of our existing features. Our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses include the cost of personnel focused on developing and executing selling and marketing activities. Sales and marketing expenses also include investments related to advertising, marketing, our brand awareness activities, commissions paid to marketing partners, sales commissions paid to our employees, and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We plan to continue investing in sales initiatives, supplementing our self-serve model with a direct sales approach, expanding our partner ecosystem, driving our go-to-market strategies, building our lead generation and brand awareness, and sponsoring marketing events. Sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue from period to period because of the timing and extent of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our accounting, finance, legal, IT, security, human resources, and administrative support personnel and executives. General and administrative expenses also include costs related to legal and other professional services fees, sales and other taxes; depreciation and amortization; and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We expect to continue incurring general and administrative expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including expenses for insurance, costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, investor relations, and professional services expenses. 25 Table of Contents Investment Income Investment income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash balances and investments. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest related to our finance lease agreements and interest on the previously outstanding balance of our debt facility. Income Tax Provision Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign and state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets because we have concluded that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will not be realized. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss data for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ % of revenue $ % of revenue (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 34,613 100 % $ 29,968 100 % Cost of revenue(1) 15,357 44 % 14,157 47 % Gross profit 19,256 56 % 15,811 53 % Operating expenses: Research and development(1) 11,855 34 % 9,746 33 % Sales and marketing(1) 9,263 27 % 10,022 33 % General and administrative(1) 7,058 20 % 6,553 22 % Total operating expenses 28,176 81 % 26,321 88 % Loss from operations (8,920) (26) % (10,510) (35) % Investment income 533 2 % 384 1 % Interest expense (853) (2) % (921) (3) % Loss before provision for income taxes (9,240) (27) % (11,047) (37) % Income tax provision 84 % 6 % Net loss and comprehensive loss $ (9,324) (27) % $ (11,053) (37) % ________________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 420 $ 386 Research and development 3,467 2,108 Sales and marketing 1,797 1,822 General and administrative 1,675 1,213 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 7,359 $ 5,529 26 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) B2 Cloud Storage revenue $ 18,048 $ 14,622 $ 3,426 23 % Computer Backup revenue 16,565 15,346 1,219 8 % Total revenue(1) $ 34,613 $ 29,968 $ 4,645 15 % ________________ (1) For the periods presented, Physical Media revenue has been allocated to B2 Cloud Storage or Computer Backup revenue based on the underlying offering from which it originates. Total revenue increased by $4.6 million, or 15%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024. Primary factors influencing the $3.4 million increase in B2 Cloud Storage revenue include the following: a $2.4 million increase related to higher storage usage as a result of upselling to existing customers, as well as organic data expansion by existing customers; and a $1.0 million increase in sales to new customers. Primary factors influencing the $1.2 million increase in Computer Backup revenue include the following: a $2.1 million increase due to price increases that went into effect in October 2023; partially offset by a $0.9 million decrease due to a decline in license counts. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 15,357 $ 14,157 $ 1,200 8 % Gross margin 56 % 53 % Primary factors influencing the $1.2 million increase in cost of revenue include the following: a $0.9 million increase in the amortization of internally developed software; and a $0.3 million increase related to managing and operating our co-location facilities. Gross margin was 56% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to 53% for the same period in 2024. The growth in our gross margin is primarily driven by improved benefits of scale relative to the cost of personnel to support our cost of sales. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 11,855 $ 9,746 $ 2,109 22 % Sales and marketing $ 9,263 $ 10,022 $ (759) (8) % General and administrative $ 7,058 $ 6,553 $ 505 8 % 27 Table of Contents Primary factors influencing the change in operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 include the following: Research and Development an increase of $1.4 million in stock-based compensation; and an increase of $0.8 million related to personnel-related expenses, net of capitalization for internal-use software, to support our storage cloud features and offerings; and a decrease of $0.1 million related to facilities and consultant expenses. Sales and Marketing a decrease of $0.4 million due to compensation expense related to a reduction in headcount; and a decrease of $0.3 million due to advertising and other sales and marketing expenses due to enhanced efficiency and customer segment targeting through more focused and effective sales and marketing efforts. General and Administrative an increase of $0.5 million in stock-based compensation expense. Investment Income Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Investment income $ 533 $ 384 $ 149 39 % Investment income increased for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 primarily due to an increase in cash and investments generating interest income, partially offset by a decrease in discount accretion which resulted from a shift in the composition of securities within our investment portfolio. Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest expense $ (853) $ (921) $ 68 7 % Interest expense remained relatively flat for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024. Income Tax Provision Our provision for income taxes was immaterial for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024. 28 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP, we provide investors with non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted gross profit (and margin), adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, adjusted free cash flow, and adjusted free cash flow margin, each as defined below. These measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only, have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly-titled non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of these measures as tools for comparison. Because of these limitations, when evaluating our performance, you should consider each of these non-GAAP financial measures alongside other financial performance measures, including the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP and our other GAAP results. A reconciliation of each of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP is set forth below. Adjusted Gross Profit and Margin We believe adjusted gross profit (and margin), when taken together with our GAAP financial results, provides a meaningful assessment of our performance, and is useful to us for evaluating our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We define adjusted gross profit as gross profit, excluding stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization and restructuring charges within cost of revenue. We define adjusted gross margin as a percentage of adjusted gross profit to revenue. We exclude stock-based compensation, which is a non-cash item, and restructuring charges because we do not consider it indicative of our core operating performance. We exclude depreciation expense of our property and equipment and amortization expense of capitalized internal-use software because these may not reflect current or future cash spending levels to support our business. We believe adjusted gross profit (and margin) provides consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations, as this metric eliminates the effects of depreciation and amortization. The following table presents a reconciliation of gross profit, the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP, to adjusted gross profit (and margin), for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (dollars in thousands) Gross profit $ 19,256 $ 15,811 Adjustments: Stock-based compensation 420 386 Depreciation and amortization 7,644 6,774 Adjusted gross profit $ 27,320 $ 22,971 Gross margin 56 % 53 % Adjusted gross margin 79 % 77 % 29 Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We define Adjusted EBITDA as net loss adjusted to exclude depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, interest expense, investment income, income tax provision, realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, impairment of long-lived assets, restructuring charges, legal settlement costs, and other non-recurring charges. Adjusted EBITDA Margin is defined as Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenues for the period. We use Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, when taken together with our GAAP financial results, provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating performance by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our business, results of operations, or outlook. We consider Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin to be important measures because they help illustrate underlying trends in our business and our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis. Our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the calculations of Adjusted EBITDA by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. Because of these limitations, when evaluating our performance, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial performance measures, including our net loss and other GAAP results. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP, to Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods presented. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (dollars in thousands) Net loss and comprehensive loss $ (9,324) $ (11,053) Adjustments: Depreciation and amortization 7,764 6,912 Stock-based compensation 7,359 5,529 Interest expense and investment income, net 320 537 Income tax provision 84 6 Foreign exchange loss (gain)(1) 149 (18) Adjusted EBITDA $ 6,352 $ 1,913 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 18 % 6 % ________________ (1) We began including foreign exchange loss (gain) in its reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA beginning in the third quarter of 2024. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin for the prior periods presented have been updated to conform with current presentation. Adjusted Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Free Cash Flow Margin We believe that Adjusted Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Free Cash Flow Margin are useful metrics for assessing liquidity that provide information to management and investors about the cash generated from our core operations that can be reinvested in the business. However, these measures should not replace cash flows from operations as a liquidity benchmark. One limitation of these metrics is that they do not reflect our future contractual commitments, nor do they capture the overall changes in our cash balance during a specific period. Nonetheless, we believe that Adjusted Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Free Cash Flow Margin are key metrics providing insight on our financial trajectory that helps us make informed decisions as we work towards sustainable positive cash flow. We believe that Adjusted Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Free Cash Flow Margin provide a reliable measure for assessing our historical financial results, which in turn supports our planning for future growth and our efforts to achieve positive cash flow. We define adjusted free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, capitalized internal-use software costs, principal payments on finance leases and lease financing obligations, as reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, and excluding payments on restructuring charges, payments on legal settlement costs, and payments on other non-recurring charges. Adjusted free cash flow margin is calculated as adjusted free cash flow divided by revenue. 30 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP, to Adjusted Free Cash Flow for each of the periods presented. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 4,943 $ 3,416 Capital expenditures(1) (2,626) (3,746) Principal payments on finance leases and lease financing obligations (4,543) (4,802) Payment of workforce reduction and related severance charges 115 Adjusted Free Cash Flow $ (2,111) $ (5,132) Adjusted Free Cash Flow Margin (6) % (17) % ________________ (1) Capital expenditures are defined as cash used for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized internal-use software costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through payments received from our customers and, in later periods, from the net proceeds from our public offerings. As of March 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $53.2 million and $54.9 million, respectively. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, together with cash provided by operations will be sufficient to support our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our material cash requirements include contractual and other obligations under our finance and operating lease agreements and purchase commitments as discussed below. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our total revenue growth rate, the timing and the amount of cash received from customers, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the potential expansion of our data centers, the price at which we are able to purchase or lease infrastructure equipment, the impact of inflation on interest rates, the introduction of platform enhancements, and the continuing market adoption of our platform. In the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, and technologies. We plan to continue to enter into finance lease agreements for purchase of infrastructure equipment and may also be required or choose to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We use City National Bank, a subsidiary of RBC, for our banking needs. In the event of a failure of any financial institutions where we maintain deposits, we may lose timely access to our funds at such institutions and incur significant losses to the extent our funds exceed the $250,000 limit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. We are currently evaluating other options for our banking needs, which may allow greater flexibility and access to additional capital in the future. We generally enter into finance lease arrangements to obtain hard drives and related equipment for our data center operations. We also generally enter into leases for our facilities for data centers and office space under non-cancelable operating leases with various expiration dates. See Note 8 to our condensed consolidated financial statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for our future minimum commitments related to our finance leases. The weighted average discount rate for finance leases was 11.7% as of March 31, 2025. There have been no material changes to our operating lease commitments, which excludes amounts allocated to services under operating lease agreements that are considered non-lease components, during the three months ended March 31, 2025. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report for our future minimum commitments related to our operating leases. 31 Table of Contents In addition, we have purchase commitments that relate mainly to infrastructure agreements used to facilitate our operations. As of March 31, 2025, the Company had $0.8 million, $1.3 million, and $0.7 millionpayable for these commitments during the remainder of the year ending December 31, 2025 and the years ending December 31, 2026 and December 31, 2027, respectively. The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands, unaudited) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 4,943 $ 3,416 Net cash used in investing activities $ (6,132) $ (8,781) Net cash used in financing activities $ (3,981) $ (264) Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is payments received from our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel-related expenses, sales and marketing expenses, infrastructure expenses, and overhead expenses. Cash flows from operating activities primarily consist of our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, including stock-based compensation, depreciation of property and equipment, amortization of capitalized internal-use software, net, noncash lease expense, and changes in operating assets and liabilities during each period. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, cash provided by operating activities was $4.9 million, which resulted from a net loss of $9.3 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $16.0 million and net cash outflow of $1.8 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $7.8 million for depreciation and amortization expense, $7.4 million for stock-based compensation expense, and noncash lease expense on operating leases of $0.9 million. The net cash outflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of cash outflows related to a decrease of $1.6 million in operating lease liabilities, as well as an increase in prepaids and other current assets of $1.1 million, each related to the timing of payments of our expenses. The cash outflows were partially offset by a cash inflow due to an increase of $0.8 million in deferred revenue, which increased due to our growing sales and to timing of collections from our customers. Cash provided by operations increased for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the same period in 2024 primarily driven by our strategy to secure larger contracts and the cost savings achieved through recent restructuring efforts, partially offset by increased investment in research and development to support business growth. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash provided by operating activities was $3.4 million, which resulted from a net loss of $11.1 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $12.9 million and net cash inflow of $1.5 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $6.9 million for depreciation and amortization expense and $5.5 million for stock-based compensation expense. The net cash inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of a $3.2 million increase of deferred revenue, which increased due to our growing customer base and timing of collections from our customers, and a $0.5 million decrease in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, which decreased primarily due to our accrued compensation and due to timing of payment of our expenses, offset in part by a $0.8 million increase in accounts receivable, $0.6 million increase in prepaid and other current assets, $0.5 million decrease in accounts payable and $0.3 million decrease of operating lease liabilities. Cash provided by operations increased for the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to the same period in 2023 primarily due to our growing customer base, increased storage from existing customers and the price increase that began to take effect in October 2023 offset by increased expenditures related to managing and operating our co-location facilities, and increase spending in support of our expanded research and development and sales and marketing spending to support business growth. 32 Table of Contents Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $6.1 million, resulting primarily from the following activity: Purchases of marketable securities of $18.3 million; Cash payments of $2.1 million related to the development of internal-use software for adding new features and enhanced functionality to our platform; Cash payments of $0.5 million related to capital expenditures in support of infrastructure deployments to support our growing business; and Proceeds of $14.8 million from the maturity of our marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $8.8 million, resulting primarily from the following activity: Purchases of marketable securities of $14.8 million; Cash payments of $3.3 million related to the development of internal-use software for adding new features and enhanced functionality to our platform; Cash payments of $0.4 million related to capital expenditures in support of infrastructure deployments to support our growing business; and Proceeds of $9.8 million from the maturity of our marketable securities. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $4.0 million, resulting primarily from the following activity: Principal payments on our finance lease agreements and lease financing obligations of $4.5 million related to hard drives and other infrastructure equipment used in our co-location facilities; $0.5 million related to payments on taxes for net share settlements of vested equity awards; and $1.1 million in proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $0.3 million, resulting primarily from the following activity: Principal payments on our finance lease agreements and lease financing obligations of $4.8 million related to hard drives and other infrastructure equipment used in our co-location facilities; $0.3 million related to repayment of principal on financed insurance premiums; $4.3 million in proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options; and $0.6 million in proceeds from our debt facility. Critical Accounting Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates as compared to those discussed in the Annual Report. 33 Table of Contents JOBS Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act. For so long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation. The JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies. This provision allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of some accounting standards unless and until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act for the adoption of accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates.