Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2025 (this "Report") and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 (our "Form 10-K"), which is incorporated herein by reference. References in this section to we, us, our, Bakkt or the Company and like terms refer to Bakkt Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries for the three and six months ending June 30, 2025, unless the context otherwise requires. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Report, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business, includes forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of our management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, our management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those factors discussed above in Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors. Overview In this section and elsewhere in this Report, we use the following terms, which are defined as follows: "Client" means businesses with whom we contract to provide services to customers on our platform, and includes financial institutions, hedge funds, merchants, retailers, third party partners and other businesses (except in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements, where we refer to revenue earned from customers, instead of clients. The term customers is in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.) "Crypto" or "Crypto asset" means an asset that is built using blockchain technology, including virtual currencies (as used in the State of New York), coins, cryptocurrencies, stablecoins, and other tokens. Our platform enables transactions in certain supported crypto assets. For purposes of this Form 10-Q, we use crypto assets, virtual currency, coins, and tokens interchangeably. "Customer" means an individual user of our platform. Customers include customers of our loyalty clients who use our platform to transact in loyalty points, as well as customers of our clients who transact in crypto through, and have accounts on, our platform (except as defined for ASC 606 purposes above). "Loyalty points" means loyalty and/or reward points that are issued by clients to their customers. Founded in 2018, Bakkt builds technology that enables our clients to deliver new opportunities to their customers through Software as a Service (SaaS) and Application Programming Interface (API) solutions that provide crypto trading capabilities and loyalty solutions for our clients and customers. The global market for crypto, while nascent, is rapidly evolving and expanding. We believe we are well-positioned to provide innovative, multi-faceted product solutions and grow with this evolving market. Our platform is well positioned to power commerce by enabling businesses, institutions, and consumers, to better manage, transact with and monetize crypto. Our platform is built to operate across various crypto assets and offers clients the flexibility to choose some or all of our capabilities, and the manner in which these capabilities are enabled for consumers, based on their needs and objectives. Some clients may choose to enable our capabilities directly in their experience, while others may want a ready-to-go storefront and leverage capabilities such as our web-based technology. Our institutional-grade platform, born out of our former parent company, Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. (ICE), supports "know your customer" ("KYC"), anti-money laundering ("AML"), and other anti-fraud measures to combat financial crime. 45 Crypto Market Developments The U.S. cryptocurrency market has undergone a significant transformation, driven by a maturing regulatory environment, increased institutional participation, and sustained retail adoption. This positive momentum creates a favorable backdrop for Bakkt's continued growth. Key Market Drivers Political Shift and Pro-Innovation Policy: The current political climate is increasingly supportive of digital assets. Recent actions, including the establishment of a Strategic Bitcoin Reserve and the signing of the GENIUS Act, signal a commitment to positioning the U.S. as a global leader in blockchain innovation. The bipartisan push for the Blockchain Regulatory Certainty Act (often referred to as the 'Clarity Act') also aims to provide clear rules for non-custodial service providers, fostering a more stable environment for developers. Legislative Progress: The newly enacted GENIUS Act is a landmark piece of legislation that provides a comprehensive regulatory framework for stablecoins. By mandating full reserve backing and defining stablecoins as a distinct asset class (not a security or commodity), the Act enhances consumer protection and provides the regulatory certainty needed to unlock significant growth in this sector. Broadening Adoption: The market continues to see robust adoption. According to the 2025 "Security.org" report, approximately 28% of U.S. adults now own cryptocurrency, a figure that has nearly doubled since 2021. This demonstrates growing public confidence and a lasting shift in consumer behavior. Market Performance Bitcoin's price performance has been a key indicator of this bullish sentiment. The approval of U.S. spot Bitcoin Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs) in early 2024 was a pivotal moment, attracting significant institutional capital and contributing to a strong 2024. Bitcoin's price reached highs near $100,000, and it has continued to demonstrate resilience, with its market cap now above $1.8 trillion. This performance, while volatile, reflects a market that is fundamentally stronger and more resilient than in previous cycles. Recent Developments DTR Commercial Agreement On July 31, 2025, we entered into a Commercial Agreement (the Commercial Agreement) with Distributed Technologies Research Global Ltd. (DTR), which sets forth the terms and conditions governing the integration of Bakkts various solutions related to financial transaction processing and cryptocurrency trading with DTRs technology related to the execution of global payments powered by stablecoins. Pursuant to the Commercial Agreement, DTR grants Bakkt and its affiliates a non-exclusive, non-transferable, sublicensable license for the duration of the term of the Commercial Agreement to access, display, reproduce, modify, create derivative works of, and otherwise use the DTRs technology in certain territories; and DTR and its affiliates a non-exclusive, non-transferable, sublicensable, worldwide, right and license to display, reproduce, modify, create derivative works of, and otherwise use Bakkt solutions as needed. For each payment that is processed under the Commercial Agreement, Bakkt will be entitled to a customary fee for similar types of transactions. The initial term of the Commercial Agreement will be three years from the date of execution, unless terminated earlier. At any time, either party will be able to terminate the Commercial Agreement in the event of insolvency of the other party or a material breach of the other party that has not been cured. Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Commercial Agreement, DTR will be subject to certain restrictions on its ability to provide services or technology that are competitive with the project in certain territories. The Commercial Agreement contains customary representations, 46 warranties and covenants. The parties have also agreed to indemnify and hold each other harmless from claims alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property, gross negligence or willful misconduct, or arising from a partys customer agreement, except these indemnification obligations to not apply with respect to any intellectual property or data that is not created or provided by the other party, combined with other products or processes not provided by the other party, or where the other party continues the alleged infringing activity. Common Stock and Warrant Offering On July 28, 2025, we entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the Underwriting Agreement) with Clear Street LLC and Cohen & Co. Capital Markets, a division of Cohen & Company Securities, LLC (collectively, the Underwriters), pursuant to which we agreed to sell and issue to the Underwriters an aggregate of 6,753,627 shares (the Shares) of the Companys Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Common Stock) and, for certain purchasers, pre-funded warrants (the Pre-Funded Warrants) to purchase an aggregate of 746,373 shares of Common Stock (the Offering). The price to the public in the Offering was $10.00 per Share and $9.9999 per Pre-Funded Warrant, which was the price per share at which the Shares were being sold to the public in the Offering, minus the $0.0001 exercise price per Pre-Funded Warrant. In addition, under the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, the Company granted the Underwriters the option, for 30 days, to purchase up to an additional 1,125,000 Shares and at the public offering price, less underwriting discounts and commissions. The aggregate gross proceeds to the Company from the Offering were approximately $75 million, before deducting fees to the underwriters and other estimated offering expenses payable by the Company. We intend to use the net proceeds from the Offering to purchase Bitcoin and other digital assets in accordance with its Investment Policy, working capital, and for general corporate purposes. The Underwriting Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and agreements by the Company (including a lock-up agreement, pursuant to which, subject to specified exceptions, the Company has agreed not to offer or transfer Shares during the 60 day period following the date of the Underwriting Agreement), customary conditions to closing, indemnification obligations of the Company and the Underwriters, including for liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and termination provisions. In connection with the Offering, the Companys officers and directors and ICE have also entered into lock-up agreements, pursuant to which, subject to specified exceptions, they have agreed not to offer or transfer their Shares during the 90-day period following the date of the Underwriting Agreement. The Pre-Funded Warrants are exercisable at any time so long as the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the holder (together with its affiliates) would not exceed 4.99% of the number of Shares outstanding immediately after giving effect to the exercise, as such percentage ownership is determined in accordance with the terms of such Pre-Funded Warrant. Such percentage may be increased or decreased to any number not in excess of 9.99% at the holders election upon notice to the Company, any such increase not to take effect until the 61st day after notice to the Company. The Pre-Funded Warrants contain standard adjustments to the exercise price, including for stock splits, stock dividends and pro rata distributions and contain customary terms regarding the treatment of such Pre-Funded Warrants in the event of a fundamental transaction, which include but are not limited to a merger or consolidation involving the Company, a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or a business combination resulting in any person acquiring more than 50% of the voting power of the capital stock of the Company. Bakkt Loyalty Solutions Exit In March 2025, we announced our investigation of strategic alternatives for our loyalty business as we work to realign our business with a crypto focus. On July 23, 2025, Opco entered into an Equity Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) by and among Opco, Project Labrador Holdco, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Roman DBDR Technology Advisors, Inc. (the Purchaser), and Bridge2 Solutions, LLC, Aspire Loyalty Travel Solutions, LLC, Bridge2 Solutions Canada, Ltd., each a 47 wholly owned subsidiary of Opco, and B2S Resale, LLC, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Opco (collectively, the Acquired Companies). Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Purchase Agreement, Opco has agreed to sell to the Purchaser all of the issued and outstanding equity interests of the Acquired Companies, which constitute the entities that conduct the loyalty and travel redemption business of the Company (the Transaction). The consideration to be paid to Opco in connection with the Transaction is $1.00, subject to certain adjustments following the Closing (as defined in the Purchase Agreement). At the Closing, Opco shall deliver the equity of the Acquired Entities, together with an amount of cash equal to $11 million plus (i) the amount of the most negative working capital of the business that existed in the twelve months prior to the closing date and (ii) the amount of estimated indebtedness, subject to post-closing adjustments.Opco shall also place the Escrow Amount (defined below) into an escrow account, to hold funds for the indemnity obligations of Opco and the working capital adjustment and indebtedness adjustment, in each case as set forth in the Purchase Agreement and an accompanying escrow agreement. At the closing of the transaction, pursuant to an escrow agreement, Opco will deposit with the escrow agent (i) $1,000,000 into an indemnity escrow account (the Indemnity Escrow Amount), and (ii) $1,500,000 into a working capital adjustment escrow account (the Adjustment Escrow Amount and together with the Indemnity Escrow Amount, the Escrow Amount), in each case to be disbursed by the escrow agent in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement and the escrow agreement. Subject to certain exceptions, on the applicable Escrow Termination Date (as defined in the Purchase Agreement), the escrow agent shall disburse the remaining Escrow Amount, if any. After the twelve-month anniversary of the closing date, the parties will determine whether the value of working capital delivered to the Purchaser at the Closing was greater than the greatest absolute value of working capital that existed in the twelve months following the closing date. If the value of working capital delivered to the Purchaser at the Closing was greater that such greatest absolute value, the Purchaser shall pay to Opco the difference between the value of working capital delivered to the Purchaser at the Closing and such greatest absolute value. The Purchase Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants, as well as certain indemnification provisions, with respect to Opco and the Acquired Companies, on the one hand, and the Purchaser, on the other. Furthermore, in connection with the Transaction, the Company plans to enter into ancillary agreements including (i) a note issued by the Purchaser to Opco pursuant to which Opco will loan to the Purchaser an amount equal to the restricted cash held by the Acquired Entities for the lesser of 18 months or the time the agreement is terminated pursuant to which such cash is restricted, (ii) the escrow agreement described above, and (iii) a transition services agreement pursuant to which Opco and the Purchaser or their respective affiliates will provide certain transition services to one another (the Ancillary Agreements). Consummation of the Transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including, but not limited to, the execution of certain of the Ancillary Agreements, the completion by the Purchaser of certain operational integrations, and the assignment of certain contracts to the Purchaser. Convertible Debenture Securities Purchase Agreement On June 17, 2025, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with YA II PN, LTD., a Cayman Islands exempt limited company (the Investor). Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Investor purchased a $25 million convertible debenture (the Convertible Debenture) from the Company for a price of $23.75 million (the Purchase Amount) in a private placement (the Private Placement). The Private Placement closed on June 18, 2025. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the Private Placement for working capital and for general corporate purposes The Convertible Debenture accrues interest on the outstanding principal balance at an annual rate equal to 0%, which will increase to an annual rate of 18% upon the occurrence of an Event of Default (as defined in the Convertible Debenture) for so long as the Event of Default remains uncured. The Convertible Debenture will mature on the first anniversary of the closing date, as may be extended at the option of the Investor (the Maturity Date). 48 For so long as there is a balance outstanding under the Convertible Debenture, the Investor, in its sole discretion, may deliver to the Company a conversion notice (the Conversion Notice) to cause any portion of the outstanding and unpaid balance under the Convertible Debenture to be converted (the Conversion Amount) into the Companys Class A common stock (the Class A Common Stock, and together with the Companys Class V common stock, the Common Stock). The Conversion Amount will not exceed the balance owed under the Convertible Debenture on the date of delivery of the Conversion Notice. The shares of Class A Common Stock will be issued and sold to the Investor at a per share price (the Conversion Price) equal to the lower of (i) $14.51 per share or (ii) 97% of the lowest daily volume weighted average price during the five consecutive trading days immediately preceding the conversion date (the Variable Price), but which Variable Price shall not be lower than $2.418. The shares of Class A Common Stock will be issued and sold to the Investor at the Conversion Price that would be applicable to the Conversion Amount selected by the Investor if such amount were to be converted as of the date of delivery of the Conversion Notice. The amount outstanding under the Convertible Debenture will then be offset by the Conversion Amount. To the extent any balance remains outstanding under the Convertible Debenture on the Maturity Date, the Company will pay to the Investor such outstanding balance in cash. Bitcoin and Other Digital Assets Investment Policy In June 2025, we updated our corporate Investment Policy, enabling us to allocate capital into Bitcoin and other digital assets as part of our broader treasury and corporate strategy. Our updated Investment Policy is built on three strategic pillars designed to enhance long-term stockholder value and position Bakkt as a leader in the digital asset ecosystem: Core allocations to Bitcoin and leading digital assets: Bakkt will allocate a portion of its treasury to Bitcoin and other top-tier cryptocurrencies, aligning with its conviction in digital assets as a store of value with long-term appreciation potential. Strategic capital structure optimization: Bakkt will continue to utilize prudent strategies to enhance the Companys capital structure while maintaining disciplined risk management. Global expansion of treasury strategy through strategic jurisdictional analysis: The Company is actively evaluating global jurisdictions to deploy these strategies, leveraging the management teams experience in respective capital markets. The Company may acquire Bitcoin or other digital assets, using excess cash, proceeds from future equity or debt financings, or other capital sources, subject to the Companys updated Investment Policy. As of June 30, 2025, the Company has not purchased any Bitcoin or other digital assets pursuant to its revised Investment Policy. The timing and magnitude of any such transactions will depend on market conditions, capital market receptivity, business performance and other strategic considerations. On August 6, 2025, we entered into a share purchase agreement with RIZAP Group, Inc. to acquire approximately 30% of the outstanding shares of MarushoHotta Co., Ltd. (MHT), a Tokyo-listed company, for 1,676,551,082 ($11.5 million). This investment advances our progress in launching a multinational bitcoin treasury strategy. MHT intends to seek shareholder approval to adopt a bitcoin treasury strategy. In July 2025, the Company acquired the Bitcoin.kr domain name. 49 Bakkt Brokerage Dissolution Effective April 28, 2025, the Company dissolved Bakkt Brokerage. Bakkt Trust Exit On March 17, 2025, we entered into an agreement with ICE whereby ICE agreed to purchase all of the outstanding equity interests of Bakkt Trust Company LLC (Bakkt Trust) in exchange for $1.5 million plus the assumption of Bakkt Trusts regulatory capital requirement, which was approximately $3.0 million as of signing, and certain operating costs of Bakkt Trust during the period between the signing of the purchase agreement and the closing of the transaction (subject to such closing). The sale of Bakkt Trust closed on May 15, 2025. Cooperation Agreement On March 19, 2025, we announced that we entered into a Cooperation Agreement with Distributed Technologies Research Global Ltd (DTR) and Akshay Naheta, the sole stockholder of DTR (the Cooperation Agreement). Pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement and subject to the negotiation and execution of a definitive commercial agreement, DTR will provide us with certain exclusive payment processing technology, application programming interfaces, and infrastructure to be integrated into our platform for the enablement of global payments processing services in the jurisdictions where we or our affiliates operate. Further, and subject to the negotiation and execution of a definitive commercial agreement, Bakkt will provide DTR with access to its existing and future regulatory licenses to leverage DTR's technology infrastructure for the enablement of global payment processing. In addition, on the date that is twelve (12) months following the date of on which we initiate processing payments using all or part of DTRs technology (the Call Event Deadline), we shall have the exclusive right (such right, the Call Option) to require Mr. Naheta to sell, convey, transfer, assign and deliver to us 100% of the capital stock and all other equity interests of DTR (the DTR Equity). This Call Option may be exercised by us at any time prior to the Call Event Deadline. If we do not exercise the Call Option within the Call Event Deadline, then for a period beginning on the date of expiration of the Call Event Deadline and ending on the second anniversary of the Call Event Deadline, if DTR or Mr. Naheta receives an offer or proposal from a third-party to purchase more than 50% of the DTR Equity, then (i) Mr. Naheta shall provide written notice to us of the material financial and other terms and conditions of such offer or proposal (such notice, the ROFR Notice) and (ii) for a period of 15 days following receipt of the ROFR Notice, we shall have the right to purchase the DTR Equity on the same terms as set forth in the ROFR Notice (the ROFR). The ROFR Notice will expire in the event that (a) the terms proposed by us are not the same or as favorable as those in the ROFR Notice or (b) we exercise the ROFR pursuant to a ROFR Notice but the ROFR transaction is not consummated within 90 days following the date of the ROFR Notice, subject to certain automatic extensions for regulatory approvals, required authorizations or approval by our stockholders, which such automatic extension shall not exceed 90 days. If the cumulative volume of payments processed by us utilizing DTRs technology or otherwise facilitated by DTRs technology infrastructure for enabling global payment processing exceeds $2 billion during any 18-month period following the date of the Cooperation Agreement (the Put Event), then within three years of such Put Event (the Put Event Deadline), Mr. Naheta shall have the right to require us to purchase, acquire and accept from Mr. Naheta the DTR Equity (the Put Option). As consideration for the sale of the DTR Equity contemplated by a Put Option or a Call Option, Mr. Naheta will be entitled, in exchange for all of the DTR Equity, to a number of shares of our Class A Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Class A Common Stock), representing at least 19.9% and no more than 31.5%, of the aggregate of our common stock (which such total shall include the shares of the then outstanding and issued Class A Common Stock and the shares of Class A Common Stock then exchangeable for our paired interests represented by our Class V Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share), plus the aggregate number of shares of our Class A Common Stock issuable upon full exercise or conversion of any options, warrants or other convertible or derivative securities then outstanding, on an as-converted basis, which shall not include the publicly traded warrants currently listed on the NYSE (BKKT WS) and any 50 warrants to purchases of Class A Common Stock that are below the Bakkt Share Price (as defined below) (the Bakkt Share Number) subject to any DTR Adjustment (as defined below); provided that Mr. Naheta will be entitled to a top up of additional shares of Class A Common Stock to the extent any such public warrants are actually exercised. Any indebtedness of DTR outstanding immediately prior to the closing of a Call Option or Put Option transaction and certain transaction expenses in excess of $1.0 million incurred by or on behalf of DTR or Mr. Naheta (such amount, the DTR Value) shall proportionately reduce the number of shares Mr. Naheta is entitled to receive in a Put Option or Call Option transaction (the DTR Adjustment). If either we or Mr. Naheta shall exercise the above described Call Option or Put Option, respectively, such transaction shall be (i) executed pursuant to a customary purchase agreement that will contain representations, warranties and interim operating covenants by us, DTR and Mr. Naheta that are customary for a transaction of this nature (the Definitive Agreement), (ii) subject to, among other things, obtaining any required regulatory approvals, non-objections and/or similar authorizations, approval of our stockholders (including compliance with any applicable requirements of the NYSE) and Delaware law, (iii) subject to receipt by us of a fairness opinion from an independent financial advisor, (iv) subject to the execution by the parties of a definitive agreement reflecting the commercial arrangement described above, and (v) subject to our having terminated any lines of credit in effect on the date of the Cooperation Agreement and having repaid in full any indebtedness then outstanding and borrowed thereunder. The Definitive Agreement shall also provide for a clause to allow the Special Committee of our Board of Directors (the Board) to pursue any superior proposal for a transaction that, if consummated, would result in a change of control of Bakkt that is conditioned upon the termination of the Put Option; provided, that Bakkt will negotiate reasonably and in good faith with any prospective party to include the Put Option or have such Put Option exercised immediately prior to the closing of such proposed transaction. If, after such negotiation, the Put Option will be terminated, we will be obligated to pay Mr. Naheta a termination fee of 3.0% of the DTR Value, as determined immediately prior to the termination of the Put Option. The price payable by us for the DTR Equity in any such Put Option or Call Option transaction shall be the fair market value as determined by a third-party valuation from an independent valuation firm, and the price of the Class A Common Stock to be issued in a Put Option or Call Option transaction shall be equal to the volume weighted average price of the Class A Common Stock on the NYSE over the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the trading day immediately preceding the date on which the Class A Common Stock would be issued pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement (the Bakkt Share Price), subject to the floor and price cap mechanisms described above. During the term of the Cooperation Agreement, each party will use commercially reasonable efforts to conduct its business in the normal and ordinary course, consistent with applicable laws. Pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement, Mr. Naheta will not, directly or indirectly, engage in hedging, short sales or similar activities with respect to our equity. Non-renewal of Key Customer Contracts On March 14, 2025, our largest client, Webull Pay LLC (Webull), notified us that it will not renew its agreement with us when it ended on June 14, 2025, although the Company continues to service a limited number of states under an amended agreement with Webull. Webull represented approximately 74% of the Companys Crypto services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024. We also received notice from Bank of America Corporation (Bank of America) on March 14, 2025 that Bank of America will not renew its commercial agreement with us. As a result, such agreement expired in accordance with its terms on April 22, 2025, subject to the Companys obligation to provide transition services for up to a 12-month period. Bank of America represented approximately 16% of our loyalty businesss net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024. Revolving Credit Facility On August 12, 2024, Bakkt and Opco executed a revolving credit facility with Intercontinental Exchange Holdings, Inc. (the Lender) and certain subsidiaries of Bakkt party thereto from time to time, as guarantors, whereby the 51 Lender agreed to provide for a $40.0 million secured revolving line of credit for working capital and general corporate purposes. The ICE Credit Facility was available in defined commitment amounts at specified dates in the future. On March 27, 2025, we drew $5.0 million under the ICE Credit Facility. On June 18, 2025, the Company repaid all principal and accrued interest then outstanding on the ICE Credit Facility. As of June 30, 2025, there were no borrowings outstanding under the ICE Credit Facility. On July 30, 2025, we terminated the ICE Credit Facility and repaid all outstanding principal, interest and fees due thereunder through the date of termination. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for further details. One-Time Option Awards In connection with the Offering, the Companys Board of Directors and its Compensation Committee (the Compensation Committee) approved a one-time award of stock options to purchase up to $74.5 million worth of Common Stock (the Options), in the aggregate, to 10 employees. No consideration was received by the Company for the granting of the Options. Due to the limited share reserve under the Bakkt Holdings, Inc. 2021 Omnibus Employee Incentive Plan (the Omnibus Incentive Plan), the Options were approved by the Board of Directors outside the Omnibus Incentive Plan and are subject to stockholder approval. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Options will be governed in all respects as if issued under the Omnibus Incentive Plan, except with respect to the Omnibus Incentive Plans minimum vesting requirements. Accordingly, the Compensation Committee will administer the Options and have the authority in its sole discretion to, among other actions: construe, interpret and implement the Options; amend the Options in any respect without stockholder approval; and determine the treatment of the Options in the event of a change in control of the Company. Consistent with the purpose of the Omnibus Incentive Plan and subject to stockholder approval, the Options are structured as a commitment by the grantee to exercise a predetermined number of Options every quarter for eight quarters (such committed number of Options, the Mandatory Exercise Options) at an exercise price per share set forth in the applicable award agreement, which exercise price will be equal to the value of a share of Common Stock as negotiated in the Offering, which reflects a third-party negotiated fair market value, or to the extent required to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant. For each quarter in which the grantee exercises the Mandatory Exercise Options, the grantee will be entitled to exercise an additional number of Options (the Optional Exercise Options) which Optional Exercise Options will become exercisable for a period of up to two years. The grantee must personally fund the exercise price in order to exercise the Mandatory Exercise Options, as net settlement of the Mandatory Exercise Options will not be permitted. The grantee may either personally fund the exercise price in order to exercise the Optional Exercise Options or may elect to net settle the Optional Exercise Options. Subject to stockholder approval, the award pool for Options will be $74.5 million (the Total Pool). The Total Pool will be divided into two sub-pools from which the grantees will receive options to purchase Common Stock in the following amounts: 1.Pool One: 81% of the Total Pool will be allocated to Pool One. For each grantee in Pool One, 1/8 of their Options will become exercisable each quarter (the Quarterly Tranche), with 20% of each Quarterly Tranche being Mandatory Exercise Options, and the remainder of the Quarterly Tranche being Optional Exercise Options. 2.Pool Two: 19% of the Total Pool will be allocated to Pool Two. For each grantee in Pool Two, 1/8 of their Options will become exercisable each quarter, with 10% of each Quarterly Tranche being Mandatory Exercise Options, and the remainder of the Quarterly Tranche being Optional Exercise Options. Each quarter, a Quarterly Tranche will become exercisable as follows: The Mandatory Exercise portion of the tranche will be exercisable over a two-day period in the applicable quarter (the Mandatory Exercise Period). 52 If the grantee exercises the Mandatory Exercise portion of the tranche during the Mandatory Exercise Period, then the remaining portion of the Quarterly Tranche will become exercisable for a period of two years thereafter. The grantee may choose when within that two year period to exercise the Optional Exercise Options. If the grantee does not exercise the Mandatory Exercise portion of any Quarterly Tranche during the Mandatory Exercise Period, then all remaining Options (for that quarter and all future quarters) will be forfeited. Subject to stockholder approval, any portion of the Options, including both the Mandatory Exercise portion and/or the Optional Exercise portion of any Quarterly Tranche, may be exercised on an accelerated basis prior to the applicable quarter in which the Quarterly Tranche would otherwise become exercisable (but not before the first Mandatory Exercise Period); provided, that any shares of Common Stock acquired on exercise of Optional Exercise Options will be subject to a trading lock up and will not be freely tradable, sellable or transferrable until the date on which the Optional Exercise Options would otherwise have become exercisable pursuant to the Quarterly Tranche schedule described above. Reverse Stock Split On April 29, 2024, following approval by our stockholders and the Board, we effected a reverse stock split (the Reverse Stock Split) of our Class A Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and Class V Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (Class V Common Stock and collectively with the Class A Common Stock, the Common Stock), at a ratio of 1-for-25 (the Reverse Stock Split Ratio), effective as of 12:01 a.m. eastern time on April 29, 2024 (the Effective Time). Our Class A Common Stock began trading on a reverse-split adjusted basis on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE) as of the open of trading on April 29, 2024. After the Effective Time, the Class A Common Stock continues to be listed on the NYSE under the symbol BKKT. As such, the Reverse Stock Split has been retroactively applied to all share and per share information throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (unless otherwise noted). In connection with the Reverse Stock Split, we effected a corresponding and proportional adjustment to our authorized shares of Common Stock, such that the 1,000,000,000 authorized shares of Common Stock, consisting of 750,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock and 250,000,000 shares of Class V Common Stock were reduced proportionately to 40,000,000 authorized shares of Common Stock, consisting of 30,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock and 10,000,000 shares of Class V Common Stock. The par value per share of Common Stock, the par value per share of preferred stock and the number of authorized shares of preferred stock did not change. We did not issue fractional shares in connection with the Reverse Stock Split. Stockholders who would have otherwise held fractional shares because the number of shares of Class A Common Stock they held before the Reverse Stock Split was not evenly divisible by the Reverse Stock Split Ratio received cash (without interest, and subject to any required tax withholding applicable to a holder) in lieu of such fractional shares. To maintain parity with the Class A Common Stock, holders of paired interests (each of which is a combination of one share of Class V Common Stock and one common unit of Opco and is exchangeable into a share of Class A Common Stock on a one-for-one basis) were also correspondingly adjusted for the Reverse Stock Split and paid out in cash, applying the same per-share price, for any resulting fractional interests. The aggregate cash in respect of fractional interests was not material. Immediately after the Reverse Stock Split, each stockholders percentage ownership interest and proportional voting power remained unchanged, except for minor changes that resulted from the treatment of fractional shares. All of our outstanding warrants to purchase Class A Common Stock were proportionately adjusted as a result of the Reverse Stock Split in accordance with the terms of the warrants. Proportionate adjustments were also made to our employees and directors' outstanding equity awards, as well as to the number of shares issuable under our 2021 Omnibus Incentive Plan, as amended (the 2021 Omnibus Incentive Plan). 53 February 2024 Concurrent Registered Direct Offerings On February 29, 2024, we entered into a securities purchase agreement (the Third-Party Purchase Agreement) with certain institutional investors (the Third-Party Purchasers). The consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Third-Party Purchase Agreement (the Third-Party Closing) occurred on March 4, 2024. At the Third-Party Closing, pursuant to the Third-Party Purchase Agreement, we issued and sold to the Third-Party Purchasers an aggregate of 1,396,701 shares of our Class A Common Stock, Class 1 Warrants (Class 1 Warrants) to purchase an aggregate of 922,722 shares of Class A Common Stock, Class 2 Warrants (Class 2 Warrants) to purchase an aggregate of 922,722 shares of Class A Common Stock and Pre-Funded Warrants (Pre-Funded Warrants) to purchase an aggregate of 448,742 shares of Class A Common Stock. As of the date of this report, holders have exercised all of the Pre-Funded Warrants. The offering of such securities was conducted in a registered direct offering (the Third-Party Offering). The purchase price of each share of Class A Common Stock and accompanying Class 1 Warrant or Class 2 Warrant (each, a Warrant) was $21.675 and the purchase price of each Pre-Funded Warrant and accompanying Warrant was $21.6725. In a concurrent registered direct offering with ICE (the ICE Offering, together with the Third-Party Purchasers offering, the "Concurrent Offerings"), we entered into a purchase agreement with ICE, pursuant to which we issued and sold to ICE an aggregate of 461,361 shares of Class A Common Stock, Class 1 Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 230,680 shares of Class A Common Stock, and Class 2 Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 230,680 shares of Class A Common Stock. The purchase price of each share of Class A Common Stock and accompanying Warrant in the ICE Offering was $21.675. In the ICE Offering, we closed the sale and issuance to ICE of 110,480 shares of Class A Common Stock, Class 1 Warrants to purchase up to 55,240 shares of Class A Common Stock and Class 2 Warrants to purchase up to 55,240 shares of Class A Common Stock, concurrently with the Third-Party Closing (the Initial ICE Closing). The closing of the issuance and sale of the remaining 350,880 shares of Class A Common Stock, Class 1 Warrants to purchase up to 175,440 shares of Class A Common Stock and Class 2 Warrants to purchase up to 175,440 shares of Class A Common Stock in the ICE Offering occurred on April 25, 2024, after we obtained stockholder approval for such issuances under the rules and regulations of the NYSE on April 23, 2024. See Liquidity and Capital Resources below for managements assertions on the impact of the Concurrent Offerings on our going concern considerations. NYSE Listing Notification On March 13, 2024, we were notified by NYSE that we were not in compliance with the Listing Rule because the average closing stock price of a share of our Class A Common Stock was less than $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. Pursuant to the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement of Section 802.01C of the NYSE Listed Company Manual (the Listing Rule), we had six months following the NYSE notification to regain compliance with the Listing Rule, during which time our Class A Common Stock would continue to be listed on the NYSE. Under the NYSEs rules, if a Company determines it will cure its noncompliance with the Listing Rule by taking an action that will require stockholder approval, it must so inform the NYSE, and the noncompliance with the Listing Rule will be deemed cured if the price promptly exceeds $1.00 per share and the price remains above that level for at least the following 30 trading days. On June 3, 2024, we received notice that we had regained compliance with the Listing Rule. 54 Executive Officer Transitions Effective March 25, 2024, Gavin Michael resigned as President, Chief Executive Officer and as a director of the Company, as well as from all positions held with the Companys subsidiaries. Mr. Michael was engaged as an advisor to the Company through March 26, 2025. Andrew Main, a member of the Board, succeeded Mr. Michael and served as the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer from March 26, 2024 until March 20, 2025, and continued to serve on the Board. Andrew Main is departing as co-Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company, effective as of August 11, 2025 (the Separation Date). Effective as of the Separation Date, Mr. Main will also resign from the Board of Directors. Mr. Main will serve as an advisor to the Company through the completion of the Companys sale of the Loyalty business. The Companys current co-Chief Executive Officer, Akshay Naheta, will serve as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and will assume the additional title of President following Mr. Mains separation. Effective May 22, 2024, Charles Goodroe resigned from his position as Chief Accounting Officer of the Company and Karen Alexander, the Companys Chief Financial Officer and principal financial officer, assumed the role of the Companys principal accounting officer until July 7, 2024. On July 8, 2024, the Company appointed Joe Henderson as Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and principal accounting officer of the Company. Ms. Alexander has continued to serve as the Company's Chief Financial Officer since Mr. Henderson's appointment. In connection with the entrance into the Cooperation Agreement, on March 19, 2025, we appointed Akshay Naheta and Mr. Main as our Co-Chief Executive Officers, effective as of March 21, 2025. Mr. Naheta was also appointed as a member of the Board and Mr. Main continues to serve as a member of the Board and as our principal executive officer and principal operating officer, for purposes of the rules and regulations of the SEC, and will continue to have operating responsibility for our regulated subsidiary, Bakkt Crypto Solutions, LLC (Bakkt Crypto Solutions), until such time as Mr. Naheta has been approved by all relevant regulatory authorities to serve in such capacity. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Growing Our Client Base Our ability to increase our revenue stream depends on our ability to grow clients on our platform. We collaborate with leading brands and have built an extensive network across numerous industries including financial institutions, merchants and travel and entertainment. To date, management has been focused on building through clients within a B2B2C model. Our goal is to provide these clients opportunities to leverage our capabilities either through their existing environment or by leveraging our platform. Our acquisition of Bakkt Crypto Solutions complements our B2B2C growth strategy by broadening our business partnerships to fintechs and neobanks. Product Expansion and Innovation The crypto marketplace is rapidly evolving. We believe our ability to continue innovating our platform will increase the attractiveness of our platform to clients. Our ability to meet the capability demands of our clients will allow us to continue to grow revenue. 55 Competition The crypto marketplace is highly competitive with numerous participants competing for the same clients. Additionally, some of our clients may seek to develop their own technology to replace their need for our platform. We believe we are well positioned with our ability to provide capabilities around emerging crypto assets on a single, highly secure, institutional-grade technology platform. General Economic and Market Conditions Our performance is impacted by the strength of the overall macroeconomic environment and crypto market conditions, which are beyond our control. Negative market conditions hinder client activity, including extended decision timelines around implementing crypto strategies. See "Crypto Market Developments" above. Regulations in U.S. & International Markets We are subject to many complex, uncertain and overlapping local, state and federal laws, rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations (collectively, laws and regulations) in the markets in which we operate. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, consumer protection, privacy and data protection, labor and employment, anti-money laundering, money transmission, competition, and marketing and communications practices. These laws and regulations will likely have evolving interpretations and applications, particularly as we introduce new products and services and expand into new jurisdictions. We are seeking to bring trust and transparency to crypto. We are and will continue to be subject to laws and regulations relating to the collection, use, retention, security, and transfer of information, including the personally identifiable information of our clients and all of the users in the information chain. We have developed and frequently evaluate and update our compliance models to ensure that we are complying with applicable restrictions. As investment continues, the intersection of technology and finance will require ongoing engagement as new applications emerge. Crypto asset and distributed ledger technology have significant, positive potential with proper collaboration between industry and regulators. Cryptocurrency Held on Platform The Company held cryptocurrency in custodial products on its platform for client customers totaling $1,359 million at fair value as of June 30, 2025. In accordance with the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 122, these assets are not recorded in the Companys consolidated balance sheets. Similarly, as the Company has an obligation to securely store cryptocurrency on its platform, it had a corresponding unrecorded liability of $1,335 million as of June 30, 2025. Since the risk of loss related to the obligation to safeguard crypto assets for users of its platform is remote, the Company did not record a liability for such risk of loss as of June 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024 in the Companys consolidated balance sheets. Key Performance Indicators We use four key performance indicators (KPIs) that are key to understanding our business performance, as they reflect the different ways we enable clients to engage with our platform. Transacting accounts. We define transacting accounts as unique accounts that perform transactions on our platform each month. We use transacting accounts to reflect how users across our platform use the variety of services we offer, such as buying and selling crypto to facilitate everyday purchases, redeeming loyalty points for travel or merchandise, or converting loyalty points to cash or gift cards. There were 0.7 million and 1.5 million unique monthly transacting accounts during the three and six months ending June 30, 2025, respectively. 56 Notional traded volume.We define notional traded volume as the total notional volume of transactions across crypto and loyalty platforms. The figures we use represent gross values recorded as of the order date. Notional traded volumes were $733.0 million and $1,946 million during the three and six months ending June 30, 2025, respectively. Assets under custody.We define assets under custody as the sum of coin quantities held by customers multiplied by the final quote for each coin on the last day of the period. Assets under custody were $1,335.0 and $2,301.9 million as of June 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively. 57 Results of Operations The following table is our consolidated statements of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2025 and June 30, 2024, respectively (in thousands, except per share data): Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 Revenues: Crypto services $ 568,103 $ 497,141 $ 1,633,859 $ 1,338,481 Loyalty services, net 9,779 12,757 18,933 25,999 Total revenues 577,882 509,898 1,652,792 1,364,480 Operating expenses: Crypto costs 561,074 491,701 1,615,709 1,323,673 Execution, clearing and brokerage fees 4,139 3,392 11,832 9,022 Compensation and benefits 20,124 22,381 37,943 46,912 Professional services 4,069 3,639 9,261 7,274 Technology and communication 2,901 3,651 6,469 9,423 Selling, general and administrative 3,590 5,516 7,419 13,326 Depreciation and amortization 154 117 374 174 Related party expenses 150 300 Impairment of long-lived assets 288 Restructuring expenses 926 228 7,067 Other operating expenses 320 442 566 875 Total operating expenses 596,371 531,915 1,689,801 1,418,334 Operating loss (18,489) (22,017) (37,009) (53,854) Interest income, net (53) 1,245 568 2,201 (Loss) gain from change in fair value of warrant liability (8,604) (15,114) 23,644 (6,068) Other (expense) income, net (2,946) 448 (1,008) 1,164 Loss before income taxes (30,092) (35,438) (13,805) (56,557) Income tax expense (60) (74) (110) (230) Net loss (30,152) (35,512) (13,915) (56,787) Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (15,418) (19,088) (6,889) (32,198) Net loss attributable to Bakkt Holdings, Inc. $ (14,734) $ (16,424) $ (7,026) $ (24,589) Net loss per share attributable to Class A Common Stockholders: Basic $ (2.16) $ (2.67) $ (1.05) $ (4.66) Diluted $ (2.16) $ (2.67) $ (1.05) $ (4.66) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 compared to Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 Financial Summary The three months ended June 30, 2025 included the following notable items relative to the three months ended June 30, 2024: Revenue increased $68.0 million primarily driven by an increase in crypto trading volume compared to the prior year second quarter; and Operating expenses increased $64.5 million primarily driven by higher crypto trading costs in connection with higher crypto trading volume compared to the prior year third quarter. 58 Revenue Revenues consist of crypto and loyalty revenue. We earn revenue when consumers use our services to buy, sell, and store crypto and redeem loyalty points. We generate revenue across our platform in the following key areas: Subscription and service revenue. We receive a recurring subscription revenue stream from client platform fees as well as service revenue from software development fees and call center support. Transaction revenue. We generate transaction revenue from crypto buy/sell trades where we earn a spread on both legs of the transaction (reported gross) and through loyalty redemption volumes where we receive a percentage fee based on the volume (reported net of associated costs). Crypto Services Revenue ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Crypto services $ 568,103 $ 497,141 $ 70,962 14.3 % Crypto services revenue increased by $71.0 million, or 14.3%, for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The increase was primarily driven by improved market trading volume for crypto as compared to the prior year second quarter. Loyalty Services Revenue ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Loyalty services, net $ 9,779 $ 12,757 $ (2,978) (23.3 %) Loyalty services revenue decreased by $3.0 million, or (23.3%), for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease was primarily related to a $0.8 million reduction in transaction revenue and a $2.2 million decrease in subscription and services revenue. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of crypto costs, execution, clearing and brokerage fees, compensation and benefits, professional services, technology and communication expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses, acquisition-related expenses, depreciation and amortization, related party expenses, goodwill and intangible assets impairments, impairment of long-lived assets, restructuring charges, and other operating expenses. Crypto Costs ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Crypto costs $ 561,074 $ 491,701 $ 69,373 14.1 % Crypto costs represent the gross value of crypto sold by our customers on our platform. These costs are measured at the executed price at the time of the trade. Crypto costs increased by $69.4 million, or 14.1%, for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The increase reflects improved crypto market trading relative to the prior year second quarter. 59 Execution, Clearing and Brokerage Fees ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Execution, clearing and brokerage fees $ 4,139 $ 3,392 $ 747 22.0 % Execution, clearing and brokerage fees primarily represent payments to clients in exchange for driving order flow to our platform. Execution, clearing and brokerage fees increased by $0.7 million during the three months ended June 30, 2025. The increase reflects increased crypto transaction volume as described above. Compensation and Benefits ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Compensation and benefits $ 20,124 $ 22,381 $ (2,257) (10.1 %) Compensation and benefits expense include all salaries and benefits, compensation for contract labor, incentive programs for employees, payroll taxes, share-based and unit-based compensation and other employee related costs. We have restructured our personnel to reduce headcount and adjusted our expense base to better align with our operational priorities and business strategy. We expect to continue to limit future hiring and further optimize our headcount as we complete development projects on our platform. Compensation and benefits expense is a significant component of our operating expenses, and we expect this will continue to be the case. However, we expect that our compensation and benefits expenses will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time. Compensation and benefits decreased by $2.3 million, or 10.1%, for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to decreases of $6.2 million in salaries and wages, and bonuses, slightly offset by an increase of $3.9 million in non-cash compensation. Professional Services ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Professional services $ 4,069 $ 3,639 $ 430 11.8 % Professional services expense includes fees for accounting, legal and regulatory fees. Professional services increased by $0.4 million, or 11.8%, for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The increase was primarily due to an increase in strategic and transformational initiatives and transaction activity during the three months ended June 30, 2025. Technology and Communication ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Technology and communication $ 2,901 $ 3,651 $ (750) (20.5 %) Technology and communication costs represent all non-headcount related costs to deliver technological solutions. Such costs principally include amounts paid for software licenses and software-as-a-service arrangements utilized for operating, administrative and information security activities, fees paid for third-party data center hosting arrangements, and fees paid to telecommunications service providers and for telecommunication software platforms necessary for operation of 60 our customer support operations. These costs are driven by client requirements, system capacity, functionality and redundancy requirements. Technology and communications expense also includes fees paid for access to external market data and associated licensing costs, which may be impacted by growth in electronic contract volume, our capacity requirements, changes in the number of telecommunications hubs, and connections with customers to access our electronic platforms directly. Technology and communications expense decreased by $0.8 million, or 20.5%, for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $0.4 million in hosting fees, $0.2 million in software license fees, and $0.1 million in telecommunications. We expect these costs to decline in the future as we optimize our operational footprint. Selling, General and Administrative ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Selling, general and administrative $ 3,590 $ 5,516 $ (1,926) (34.9 %) Selling, general and administrative expenses include marketing, advertising, business insurance, rent and occupancy, bank service charges, dues and subscriptions, travel and entertainment, and other general and administrative costs. Our marketing activities primarily consist of web-based promotionalcampaigns, promotional activities with clients, conferences and user events, and brand-building activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses do not include any headcount cost, which is reflected in "Compensation and benefits" on the consolidated statements of operations. We expect these costs will decrease as a percentage of our revenue in future years as we gain improved operating leverage from our projected revenue growth and exercise prudent expense management. Selling, general and administrative costs decreased by $1.9 million, or 34.9%, for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $1.8 million in general insurance compared the previous year second quarter. Depreciation and Amortization ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Depreciation and amortization $ 154 $ 117 $ 37 31.6 % Depreciation and amortization expense consists of amortization of intangible assets from business acquisitions and internally developed software and depreciation of purchased software and computer and office equipment over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation and amortization increased by $37.0 thousand, or 31.6%, for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The increase is primarily related to capitalized software development. Related Party Expenses ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Related party expenses $ $ 150 $ (150) (100.0 %) Related party expenses consist of fees for transition services agreements. Related party expenses decreased by $0.2 million, or (100.0%), for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease was due to the termination of the ICE transition services agreement in December 2023. 61 Loss from Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liability ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Loss from change in fair value of warrant liability $ (8,604) $ (15,114) $ 6,510 n/m We recorded a loss of $8.6 million during the three months ended June 30, 2025 for the change in fair value on the revaluation of our warrant liabilities associated with our public warrants and the Class 1 and Class 2 warrants from the 2024 Concurrent Offerings. We recorded a loss of $15.1 million during the three months ended June 30, 2024 for the change in fair value on the revaluation of our warrant liabilities. These are non-cash losses and/or gains which are driven by fluctuations in the market price of our public warrants and valuation of our Class 1 and Class 2 warrants from the Concurrent Offerings. Other (Expense) Income, net ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Other (expense) income, net $ (2,946) $ 448 $ (3,394) n/m Other (expense) income, net primarily consists of non-operating gains and losses. During the three months ended June 30, 2025, we had other expense of $2.9 million primarily related to a net loss of $2.3 million on the sale of Bakkt Trust in May 2025 and foreign currency translation. During the three months ended June 30, 2024, we had other income of $0.4 million primarily related to foreign currency translation. Income Tax Expense ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Income tax expense $ (60) $ (74) $ 14 (18.9 %) Income tax expense during the three months ended June 30, 2025 and June 30, 2024, primarily consists of current state tax expense related to certain state jurisdictions wherein we are required to file income tax returns. Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 compared to Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 Financial Summary The six months ended June 30, 2025 included the following notable items relative to the six months ended June 30, 2024: Revenue increased $288.3 million primarily driven by a significant increase in Crypto services revenue resulting from an increase in trading volume; and Operating expenses increased $271.5 million primarily driven by increased crypto trading costs in conjunction with increased crypto service revenue. Crypto Services Revenue ($ in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Crypto services $ 1,633,859 $ 1,338,481 $ 295,378 22.1 % 62 Crypto services revenue increased by $295.4 million, or 22.1%, for the six months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. The increase was primarily driven by increased crypto trading volume. Loyalty Services Revenue ($ in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Loyalty services, net $ 18,933 $ 25,999 $ (7,066) (27.2 %) Net loyalty services revenue decreased by $7.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease was primarily related to the exit of a client of our loyalty business in 2024 due to divestiture of its business, as well as reduced volume-based service revenue and transaction volume. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of crypto costs, execution, clearing and brokerage fees, compensation and benefits, professional services, technology and communication expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses, acquisition-related expenses, depreciation and amortization, restructuring expenses, and other operating expenses. Crypto Costs ($ in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Crypto costs $ 1,615,709 $ 1,323,673 $ 292,036 22.1 % Crypto costs represent the gross value of crypto sold by our customers on our platform. These costs are measured at the executed price at the time of the trade. Crypto costs increased by $292.0 million, or 22.1%, for the six months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. This increase was primarily driven by increased crypto trading volume. Execution, Clearing and Brokerage Fees ($ in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Execution, clearing and brokerage fees $ 11,832 $ 9,022 $ 2,810 31.1 % Execution, clearing and brokerage fees primarily represent payments to clients in exchange for driving order flow to our platform. Execution, clearing and brokerage fees increased $2.8 million, or 31.1%, during the six months ended June 30, 2025 relative to the same period in the prior year. The increase reflects increased volume in Crypto trading revenue. Compensation and Benefits ($ in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Compensation and benefits $ 37,943 $ 46,912 $ (8,969) (19.1 %) Compensation and benefits expense include all salaries and benefits, compensation for contract labor, incentive programs for employees, payroll taxes, share-based compensation and other employee related costs. We have restructured our personnel to reduce headcount and adjusted our expense base to better align with our operational priorities and business strategy. We expect to continue to limit future hiring and further optimize our headcount as we complete development projects on our platform. Compensation and benefits expense is a significant component of 63 our operating expenses, and we expect this will continue to be the case. However, we expect that our compensation and benefits expenses will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time. Compensation and benefits decreased by $9.0 million, or 19.1%, for the six months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to decreases of $3.7 million in salaries and wages and, $3.4 million in bonuses, $0.8 in stock-based compensation, and $0.8 million in benefit related costs as the Company continues to optimize its cost structure. Professional Services ($ in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Professional services $ 9,261 $ 7,274 $ 1,987 27.3 % Professional services expense includes fees for accounting, legal and regulatory fees. Professional services increased by $2.0 million, or 27.3%, for the six months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. The increase was primarily due to increases of $1.7 million in legal and $0.8 million of other professional fees, slightly offset by a $0.5 million decrease in audit and tax fees primarily due to an increase in strategic and transformational initiatives and transaction activity during the six months ended June 30, 2025. Technology and Communication ($ in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Technology and communication $ 6,469 $ 9,423 $ (2,954) (31.3 %) Technology and communication costs represent all non-headcount related costs to deliver technological solutions. Such costs principally include amounts paid for software licenses and software-as-a-service arrangements utilized for operating, administrative and information security activities, fees paid for third-party data center hosting arrangements, and fees paid to telecommunications service providers and for telecommunication software platforms necessary for operation of our customer support operations. These costs are driven by client requirements, system capacity, functionality and redundancy requirements. Technology and communications expense also includes fees paid for access to external market data and associated licensing costs, which may be impacted by growth in electronic contract volume, our capacity requirements, changes in the number of telecommunications hubs, and connections with customers to access our electronic platforms directly. Technology and communications expense decreased by $3.0 million, or 31.3%, for the six months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $1.8 million in hardware and software license fees, $0.8 million in hosting fees, and $0.3 million in telecommunications fees. Selling, General and Administrative ($ in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Selling, general and administrative $ 7,419 $ 13,326 $ (5,907) (44.3 %) Selling, general and administrative expenses include marketing, advertising, business insurance, rent and occupancy, bank service charges, dues and subscriptions, travel and entertainment, and other general and administrative costs. Our marketing activities primarily consist of web-based promotional campaigns, promotional activities with clients, conferences and user events, and brand-building activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses do not include any headcount cost, which is reflected in "Compensation and benefits" on the consolidated statements of operations. We expect 64 these costs will decrease as a percentage of our revenue in future years as we gain improved operating leverage from our projected revenue growth. Selling, general and administrative costs decreased by $5.9 million, or 44.3%, for the six months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to a $4.1 million decrease in general insurance, $1.0 million in marketing and promotions, and a $0.6 million decrease in non-recurring vendor cost. Depreciation and Amortization ($ in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Depreciation and amortization $ 374 $ 174 $ 200 114.9 % Depreciation and amortization expense consists of amortization of intangible assets from business acquisitions, internally developed software and depreciation of purchased software and computer and office equipment over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation and amortization increased by $0.2 million, or 114.9%, for the six months ended June 30, 2025 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. The increase was primarily due to amortization associated with software development costs, as the Company continues to capitalize internally developed software development related to Bakkt Crypto. Restructuring Expenses ($ in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Restructuring expenses $ 228 $ 7,067 $ (6,839) (96.8 %) Restructuring expenses of $0.2 million during the six months ended June 30, 2025 consist of severance costs related to a reduction in force executed in the first quarter of 2025. Restructuring expenses of $7.1 million during the six months ended June 30, 2024 consisted of severance costs and accelerated vesting of non-cash compensation related to the termination of a former executive and certain other employees. Gain (Loss) from Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liability ($ in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Gain (loss) from change in fair value of warrant liability $ 23,644 $ (6,068) $ 29,712 n/m We recorded a gain of $23.6 million during the six months ended June 30, 2025 for the change in fair value on the revaluation of our warrant liabilities associated with our public warrants and Class 1 and Class 2 warrants from the Concurrent Offerings. We recorded a loss of $6.1 million during the six months ended June 30, 2024 for the change in fair value on the revaluation of our warrant liabilities. These are non-cash losses and gains and are driven by fluctuations in the market price of our public warrants and valuation of our Class 1 and Class 2 warrants from the Concurrent Offerings. Other (Expense) Income, net ($ in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Other (expense) income, net $ (1,008) $ 1,164 $ (2,172) n/m 65 Other (expense) income, net primarily consists of non-operating gains and losses. During the six months ended June 30, 2025, we recognized income, net of $(1.0) million primarily related to a net gain of approximately $1.8 million on the assignment of our New York office lease, $0.6 million of sublease income on our Alpharetta headquarters lease, and $1.0 million gain on foreign currency, offset by a $2.3 million loss on the sale of Bakkt Trust. During the six months ended June 30, 2024, we recognized income of $1.2 million primarily related to foreign currency. Income Tax Expense ($ in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 $ Change % Change Income tax expense $ (110) $ (230) $ 120 (52.2 %) Income tax expense during the six months ended June 30, 2025 and June 30, 2024 primarily consists of current state tax expense related to certain state jurisdictions wherein we are required to file income tax returns during the period. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2025, we had $43.5 million and $18.0 million of cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash deposits at banks and money market funds. Restricted cash is held to satisfy certain minimum capital requirements pursuant to regulatory requirements, or as collateral for insurance contracts and our purchasing card facility. As discussed above, we completed the Private Placement in June 2025 and the Offering in July 2025, The Private Placement provided net cash proceeds of approximately $23.8 million and the Offering provided $75.0 million prior to underwriting fees and issuance costs. The proceeds of the Private Placement will be used to purchase Bitcoin and other digital assets in accordance with the Company's Investment Policy, for working capital and general corporate purposes. The proceeds of the Offering will be used for working capital, and general corporate purposes. On August 12, 2024, Bakkt and Opco executed a secured revolving credit facility with the Lender (the credit facility herein referred to as the "ICE Credit Facility"), with certain subsidiaries of Bakkt to be party thereto from time to time, as guarantors, whereby the Lender agreed to provide for a $40.0 million secured revolving line of credit to us for working capital and general corporate purposes. The Company terminated the ICE Credit Facility on July 30, 2025 and repaid all outstanding principal, interest and fees due thereunder through the date of termination. As discussed above, we consummated the Concurrent Offerings in March and April 2024. We raised aggregate net proceeds from the Concurrent Offerings of approximately $46.5 million, after deducting the placement agents fees and offering expenses payable by us. We intend to use our unrestricted cash, inclusive of the proceeds from the Private Placement and Offering, to fund our day-to-day operations, including, but not limited to funding our regulatory capital requirements, compensating balance arrangements and other similar commitments, each of which is subject to change, and as available (i) activate new crypto clients, (ii) maintain our product development efforts, and (iii) optimize our technology infrastructure and operational support. We continue to evaluate our headcount and expense base. We have acted to right-size headcount since 2022. Our expected uses of available funds are based on our present plans, objectives and business condition. Additionally, Webulls decision not to renew its agreement with us which ended on June 14, 2025 has and is expected to continue to materially reduce our Crypto services revenue, although the Company continues to service a limited number of states under an amended agreement with Webull. Following the notice from Webull, the Company executed further cost reduction measures, including personnel reductions, a hiring freeze, and is making changes to vendors, and additional discretionary spending cuts to preserve and extend cash to fund operations. In forecasting the Company's expectation of cash needs for the initial going concern evaluation, the Crypto services revenue growth projections exclude activation of new clients or products currently not live on Bakkt's platform as of the date of release of these consolidated financial statements. In addition, we may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, 66 technologies or intellectual property rights. However, except with respect to our potential acquisition of DTR pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement, we have no agreements or commitments with respect to any such acquisitions or investments at this time. Management believes that the Company's cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund Bakkt's operations for 12 months from the date of these financial statements are issued. Our future cash requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, the timing and extent of overhead, sales and marketing expenditures to support projected growth, our ability to limit our software development investments to features and functionality with a clear line of sight to revenue generation, and our ability to retain our clients. For example, our client, Webull, which represented 74% of our Crypto services revenues in the year ended December 31, 2024, notified us that it will not renew its agreement with us which ended on June 14, 2025, although the Company continues to service a limited number of states under an amended agreement with Webull. Unless we are able to replace the Crypto services revenue historically generated through our relationship with Webull, we expect our Crypto services revenue to decrease significantly, which will increase our future cash requirements. We made substantial investments in our platforms in 2023 and 2024, which we expect will enable us to continue to simplify our organization and focus on the core capabilities critical to our strategy, and continue to pursue growth with new and existing clients. Please see Item 1A.Risk FactorsRisks Related to our Business, Finances and OperationsIn the past, we have identified conditions and events that raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and it is possible that we may identify conditions and events in the future that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 (our "Form 10-K") filed with the SEC on March 20, 2025 for more information. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands): Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 Net cash used in operating activities $ (95,929) $ (27,540) Net cash provided by investing activities $ 4,369 $ 1,993 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 21,264 $ 44,190 Operating Activities Since our inception, we have yet to achieve positive cash flow from operations. Our primary uses of cash include compensation and benefits for headcount-related expenses, investment in software and product development of our technology platforms, and associated non-headcount technology and communication cost to develop, operate and support our customer-facing technology platforms. Net cash flows used in operating activities of $95.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025 was primarily related to cash outflows resulting from change in our operating assets and liabilities of $69.6 million and a $23.6 million non-cash gain resulting from the change in fair value of warrant liabilities, slightly offset by net income of $13.9 million, and non-cash compensation expense of $9.7 million. Net cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities for the six months ended June 30, 2025 were primarily from a $67.2 million decrease in customer funds mainly related to Webull moving a substantial portion of its trading activity off the Company's platform, the disposition of $3.5 million in net assets for Bakkt Trust, a $2.7 million decrease in operating lease liabilities, primarily related to the assignment of the New York office lease, and a $2.4 million decrease in TSA related party payables, partially offset by a $3.6 million increase in accounts payable. Net cash flows used in operating activities of $27.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 was primarily related to our net loss of $56.8 million, offset by net cash inflows resulting from changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $11.3 million and non-cash charges of $17.9 million. Net cash inflows from changes in our operating assets and liabilities for the six months ended June 30, 2024 resulted primarily from a $20.4 million increase in customer funds and a decrease in prepaid insurance of $7.1 million, partially offset by a decrease of accounts payable and accrued 67 liabilities of $16.1 million. The non-cash charges primarily consisted of share-based compensation of $10.4 million, loss from change in fair value of warrant liability of $6.1 million, and non-cash lease expense of $1.0 million. Investing Activities Net cash flows provided by investing activities of $4.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025 consisted of proceeds from the sale of Bakkt Trust. Net cash flows provided by investing activities of $2.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 consisted of the receipt of $22.2 million of proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities, partially offset by the purchase of $18.0 million of available-for-sale debt securities and $2.2 million of capitalized costs of internally developed software for our technology platforms. Financing Activities Net cash flows provided by financing activities of $21.3 million during the six months ended June 30, 2025 primarily consisted of $23.8 million in proceeds from the issuance of convertible debentures, slightly offset by tax withholding payments of $1.7 million for vested equity awards and $0.8 million in financing fees related to the Private Placement. Net cash flows provided by financing activities of $44.2 million during the six months ended June 30, 2024 primarily consisted of $46.5 million in proceeds from our Concurrent Offerings, partially offset by the repurchase and retirement of $2.3 million of Class A Common Stock that was withheld from vested equity grants. Tax Receivable Agreement Concurrently with the completion of the VIH Business Combination, we entered into a Tax Receivable Agreement ("TRA") with certain members of Opco. Pursuant to the TRA, among other things, holders of Opco Common Units may, subject to certain conditions, from and after April 16, 2022, exchange such Opco Common Units (along with a corresponding number of shares of our Class V Common Stock), for Class A Common Stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to the terms of the Exchange Agreement, including our right to elect to deliver cash in lieu of Class A Common Stock and, in certain cases, adjustments as set forth therein. Opco will have in effect an election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code for each taxable year in which an exchange of Opco Common Units for Class A Common Stock (or cash) occurs. The exchanges are expected to result in increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Opco. These increases in tax basis may reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future. These increases in tax basis may also decrease gains (or increase losses) on future dispositions of certain capital assets to the extent tax basis is allocated to those capital assets. The TRA provides for the payment by us to exchanging holders of Opco Common Units of 85% of certain net income tax benefits, if any, that we realize (or in certain cases are deemed to realize) as a result of these increases in tax basis related to entering into the TRA, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the TRA. This payment obligation is an obligation of the Company and not of Opco. For purposes of the TRA, the cash tax savings in income tax will be computed by comparing our actual income tax liability (calculated with certain assumptions) to the amount of such taxes that we would have been required to pay had there been no increase to the tax basis of the assets of Opco as a result of Opco having an election in effect under Section 754 of the Code for each taxable year in which an exchange of Opco Common Units for Class A Common Stock occurs and had we not entered into the TRA. Such change will be calculated under the TRA without regard to any transfers of Opco Common Units or distributions with respect to such Opco Common Units before the exchange under the Exchange Agreement to which Section 743(b) or 734(b) of the Code applies. As of June 30, 2025, 1,061,075 Opco Common Units were exchanged for Class A Common Stock. Based on our history of 68 taxable losses, we have concluded that it is not probable to expect cash tax payments in the foreseeable future and as such, no value has been recorded under the TRA. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following is a summary of our significant contractual obligations and commitments as of June 30, 2025 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Total Purchase obligations(1) $ 5,000 $ 6,000 $ $ $ 11,000 Future minimum operating lease payments(2) 4,071 6,183 5,093 4,845 20,192 Repayments on line of credit Total contractual obligations $ 9,071 $ 12,183 $ 5,093 $ 4,845 $ 31,192 (1)Represents minimum commitment payments under a four-year cloud computing arrangement. In December 2023, we agreed to amend the cloud computing arrangement and extended the payment period for an additional year. (2)Represents rental payments under operating leases with remaining non-cancellable terms in excess of one year. On April 7, 2022, we entered into a corporate card services agreement with Bank of America to provide a purchasing card facility that we utilize for redemption purchases made from vendors as part of our loyalty redemption platform. Expenditures made using the purchasing card facility were payable at least bi-monthly, are not subject to formula-based restrictions and do not bear interest if amounts outstanding are paid when due and in full. The purchasing card facility required us to maintain a concentration account with the lender subject to a minimum liquidity maintenance requirement of $7.0 million along with the accounts receivable of our subsidiary, within the loyalty business. Bakkt Holdings, Inc. serves as the guarantor on behalf of our subsidiary under the commercial purchasing card facility. In March 2024, Bank of America required us to pledge as collateral the amounts which were previously required to be maintained in the concentration account. In April 2024, Bank of America reduced our credit line associated with the purchasing card facility from $35.0 million to $20.0 million. In January 2025, Bank of America further reduced our credit line associated with the purchasing card facility from $20.0 million to $18.0 million and changed payment frequency to weekly. There is no defined maturity date for the purchasing card facility. In March 2025, Bank of America further reduced the credit line to $15.0 million. On March 19, 2025, we entered into a Cooperation Agreement with DTR and Akshay Naheta, the sole stockholder of DTR, pursuant to which DTR will provide, subject to the negotiation and execution of a definitive commercial agreement, us with certain exclusive payment processing technology, application programming interfaces, and infrastructure to be integrated into our platform for the enablement of global payments processing services in the jurisdictions where we or our affiliates operate. On the date that is twelve (12) months following the date of on which we initiate processing payments using all or part of DTRs technology (the Call Event Deadline), we shall have the exclusive right (such right, the Call Option) to require Mr. Naheta to sell, convey, transfer, assign and deliver to us 100% of the capital stock and all other equity interests of DTR (the DTR Equity). This Call Option may be exercised by us at any time prior to the Call Event Deadline. If we do not exercise the Call Option within the Call Event Deadline, then for a period beginning on the date of expiration of the Call Event Deadline and ending on the second anniversary of the Call Event Deadline, if DTR or Mr. Naheta receives an offer or proposal from a third-party to purchase more than 50% of the DTR Equity, then (i) Mr. Naheta shall provide written notice to us of the material financial and other terms and conditions of such offer or proposal (such notice, the ROFR Notice) and (ii) for a period of 15 days following receipt of the ROFR Notice, we shall have the right to purchase the DTR Equity on the same terms as set forth in the ROFR Notice (the ROFR). The ROFR Notice will expire in the event that (a) the terms proposed by us are not the same or as favorable as those in the ROFR Notice or (b) we exercise the ROFR pursuant to a ROFR Notice but the ROFR transaction is not consummated within 90 days following the date of the 69 ROFR Notice, subject to certain automatic extensions for regulatory approvals, required authorizations or our stockholder approval, which such automatic extension shall not exceed 90 days. If the cumulative volume of payments processed by us utilizing DTRs technology or otherwise facilitated by DTRs technology infrastructure for enabling global payment processing exceeds $2 billion during any 18-month period following the date of the Cooperation Agreement (the Put Event), then within three years of such Put Event (the Put Event Deadline), Mr. Naheta shall have the right to require us to purchase, acquire and accept from Mr. Naheta the DTR Equity (the Put Option). As consideration for the sale of the DTR Equity contemplated by a Put Option or a Call Option, Mr. Naheta will be entitled, in exchange for all of the DTR Equity, to a number of shares of the Class A Common Stock, representing at least 19.9% and no more than 31.5%, of our aggregate common stock (which such total shall include the shares of the then outstanding and issued Class A Common Stock and the shares of Class A Common Stock then exchangeable for the paired interests represented by our Class V Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share), plus the aggregate number of shares of our Class A Common Stock issuable upon full exercise or conversion of any options, warrants or other convertible or derivative securities then outstanding, on an as-converted basis, which shall not include our publicly traded warrants currently listed on the NYSE (BKKT WS) and any warrants to purchases of Class A Common Stock that are below the Bakkt Share Price (as defined below) (the Bakkt Share Number) subject to any DTR Adjustment (as defined below); provided that Mr. Naheta will be entitled to a top up of additional shares of Class A Common Stock to the extent any such public warrants are actually exercised. Any indebtedness of DTR outstanding immediately prior to the closing of a Call Option or Put Option transaction and certain transaction expenses in excess of $1.0 million incurred by or on behalf of DTR or Mr. Naheta (such amount, the DTR Value) shall proportionately reduce the number of shares Mr. Naheta is entitled to receive in a Put Option or Call Option transaction (the DTR Adjustment). If either we or Mr. Naheta shall exercise the above described Call Option or Put Option, respectively, such transaction shall be (i) executed pursuant to a customary purchase agreement that will contain representations, warranties and interim operating covenants by the Company, DTR and Mr. Naheta that are customary for a transaction of this nature (the Definitive Agreement), (ii) subject to, among other things, obtaining any required regulatory approvals, non-objections and/or similar authorizations, our stockholder approval (including compliance with any applicable requirements of the NYSE) and Delaware law, (iii) subject to receipt by us of a fairness opinion from an independent financial advisor, (iv) subject to the execution by the parties of a definitive agreement reflecting the commercial arrangement described above, and (v) subject to us having terminated any lines of credit in effect on the date of the Cooperation Agreement and having repaid in full any indebtedness then outstanding and borrowed thereunder. The Definitive Agreement shall also provide for a clause to allow the Special Committee of the Board to pursue any superior proposal for a transaction that, if consummated, would result in our change of control that is conditioned upon the termination of the Put Option; provided, that we will negotiate reasonably and in good faith with any prospective party to include the Put Option or have such Put Option exercised immediately prior to the closing of such proposed transaction. If, after such negotiation, the Put Option will be terminated, we will be obligated to pay Mr. Naheta a termination fee of 3.0% of the DTR Value, as determined immediately prior to the termination of the Put Option. The price payable by us for the DTR Equity in any such Put Option or Call Option transaction shall be the fair market value as determined by a third-party valuation from an independent valuation firm, and the price of the Class A Common Stock to be issued in a Put Option or Call Option transaction shall be equal to the volume weighted average price of the Class A Common Stock on the NYSE over the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the trading day immediately preceding the date on which the Class A Common Stock would be issued pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement (the Bakkt Share Price), subject to the floor and price cap mechanisms described above. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The unaudited interim consolidated financial statements included in this Report are prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We use non-GAAP financial measures to assist in 70 comparing our performance on a consistent basis for purposes of business decision-making by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our core operations. We believe that presenting non-GAAP financial measures is useful to investors because it (a) provides investors with meaningful supplemental information regarding financial performance by excluding certain items that we believe do not directly reflect our core operations, (b) permits investors to view performance using the same tools that we use to budget, forecast, make operating and strategic decisions, and evaluate historical performance, and (c) otherwise provides supplemental information that may be useful to investors in evaluating our results. We believe that the presentation of the following non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to those measures provided herein, provides investors with an additional understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business that could not be obtained absent these disclosures. Adjusted EBITDA We present Adjusted EBITDA as a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides relevant and useful information, which is used by management in assessing the performance of our business. EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA before share-based and unit-based compensation expense, goodwill and intangible assets impairments, restructuring charges, changes in the fair value of our warrant liability and certain other non-cash and/or non-recurring items that do not contribute directly to our evaluation of operating results and are not components of our core business operations. Adjusted EBITDA provides management with an understanding of earnings before the impact of investing and financing transactions and income taxes, and the effects ofaforementioned items that do not reflect the ordinary earnings of our operations. This measure may be useful to an investor in evaluating our performance. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of our financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to net income (loss) or other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures like Adjusted EBITDA have limitations, should be considered as supplemental in nature and are not meant as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures should be considered alongside other financial performance measures, including net income (loss) and our other financial results presented in accordance with GAAP. 71 The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss), the most directly comparable GAAP operating performance measure, to our Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 Net income (loss) $ (30,152) $ (35,512) $ (13,915) $ (56,787) Depreciation and amortization 154 117 374 174 Interest income, net 53 (1,245) (568) (2,201) Income tax expense 60 74 110 230 EBITDA (29,885) (36,566) (13,999) (58,584) Acquisition-related expenses 55 66 Share-based and unit-based compensation expense 6,338 2,406 9,681 10,420 Loss (gain) from change in fair value of warrant liability 8,604 15,114 (23,644) 6,068 Impairment of long-lived assets 288 Restructuring expenses 926 228 7,067 Shelf registration expenses 200 Transition services expense 150 300 Gain on lease assignment (1,755) Loss on sale of Bakkt Trust 2,301 2,301 Debt issuance cost 87 87 Adjusted EBITDA loss $ (12,555) $ (17,915) $ (27,101) $ (34,175) Adjusted EBITDA loss for the three months ended June 30, 2025 decreased by $5.4 million or 29.9% as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024 primarily due to an overall lower net loss for the three months ended June 30, 2025 relative to the same period in the prior year. The lower net loss was primarily due to $2.3 million lower compensation expense, a $3.9 million increase in the share-based and unit-based compensation component of compensation expense, and a $1.9 million decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses, partially offset by $3.0 million lower net loyalty services revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2025 relative to the three months ended June 30, 2024. Adjusted EBITDA loss for the six months ended June 30, 2025 decreased by $7.1 million or 20.7% as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024 mainly due to an overall lower net loss for the six months ended June 30, 2025 relative to the same period in the prior year. The decreased loss was primarily due to a $9.0 million lower compensation expense, a $5.9 million decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses and a $3.0 million decrease in technology and communications expense partially offset by $7.1 million lower net loyalty services revenue, a $2.0 million increase in professional services expense, and a $0.7 million decline in the share-based and unit-based compensation component of compensation expense for the six months ended June 30, 2025 relative to the six months ended June 30, 2024. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts. In our notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements, we describe the significant accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Our management has discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board. For further information about our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 20, 2025. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since the filing of our Form 10-K. 72 Use of Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates and assumptions on various judgments that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The significant estimates and assumptions that affect the financial statements may include, but are not limited to, going concern, income tax valuation allowances, useful lives of intangible assets and property, equipment and software, fair value of financial assets and liabilities, determining provision for credit losses, valuation of acquired tangible and intangible assets, the impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, and fair market value of Bakkt incentive units. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management's estimates and assumptions and such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements are described in Note 2 in the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in this Report.