Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2023 and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, which is incorporated herein by reference. References in this section to we, us, our, Bakkt or the Company and like terms refer to Bakkt Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries for the three months ending March 31, 2023, unless the context otherwise requires. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this document, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business, includes forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of our management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, our management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those factors discussed above in Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors. Overview In this section and elsewhere in this Report, we use the following terms, which are defined as follows: Client means businesses with whom we contract to provide services to customers on our platform, and includes financial institutions, hedge funds, merchants, retailers, and other businesses (except in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements, where we refer to revenue earned from customers, instead of clients. The term customers is in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.) Cryptoassets (or crypto) means an asset that is built using blockchain technology, including cryptocurrencies, stablecoins, and other tokens. Our platform enables transactions in certain supported cryptocurrencies. Customer means an individual user of our platform. Customers include customers of our loyalty clients who use our platform to transact in loyalty points, as well as customers of our clients who transact in crypto through, and have accounts on, our platform (except as defined for ASC 606 purposes above). Loyalty points means loyalty and/or reward points that are issued by clients to their customers. Founded in 2018, Bakkt builds technology that connects the digital economy by offering one ecosystem for crypto and loyalty points. We enable our clients to deliver new opportunities to their customers through software as a service (SaaS) and API solutions that unlock crypto and drive loyalty, powering engagement and performance. The global market for crypto, while nascent, is rapidly evolving and expanding. We believe we are well-positioned to provide innovative, multi-faceted product solutions and grow with this evolving market. Our platform is uniquely positioned to power commerce by enabling consumers, brands, and financial institutions to better manage, transact with and monetize crypto in exciting new ways. Our platform is built to operate across various cryptoassets and offers clients the flexibility to choose some or all of our capabilities, and the manner in which these capabilities are enabled for consumers, based on their needs and objectives. Some clients may choose to enable our capabilities directly in their experience, while others may want a ready-to-go storefront and leverage capabilities such as our web-based technology. Our institutional-grade platform, born out of our former parent company, Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. (ICE), supports "know your customer" ("KYC"), anti-money laundering ("AML"), and other anti-fraud measures to combat financial crime. Recent Developments On February 8, 2023, we acquired 100% of the units of Bumped Financial, LLC ("Bumped"), a broker-dealer registered with the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., for cash consideration of $631,000. 32 Table of Contents On November 2, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement with Apex Fintech Solutions, Inc. ("AFS") pursuant to which we agreed to acquire all of the membership interests of Apex Crypto, a financial technology company with an integrated crypto trading platform, for consideration consisting of an initial purchase price of $55.0 million in cash, up to $45.0 million in shares of our Class A common stock that may be earned if Apex Crypto achieves certain profitability growth targets for the fourth quarter of 2022, and up to an additional $100.0 million in shares of our Class A common stock depending on Apex Crypto's achievement of certain financial targets through 2025. On November 2, 2022, we and certain parties related to the seller also entered into a Stockholders' Agreement whereby such counterparties agreed to certain lock-up, standstill, and short sale restrictions. The acquisition closed on April 1, 2023. Apex Crypto's profitability in the fourth quarter of 2022 resulted in the issuance of $9.0 million in shares of our Class A common stock based on the earn-out target mechanics. This acquisition is expected to provide immediate scale and meaningful transaction volume from Apex Crypto's active partner base. We expect to leverage Apex Crypto's proprietary trading platform and existing relationships with liquidity providers to provide a wider range of assets and competitive pricing to our customers. In connection with the integration of Apex Crypto, we expect to delist certain of the crypto assets currently traded on Apex Crypto's platform. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Growing Our Client Base Our ability to increase our revenue stream depends on our ability to grow clients on our platform. We collaborate with leading brands and have built an extensive network across numerous industries including financial institutions, merchants and travel and entertainment. To date, management has been focused on building through clients within a business-to-business-to-consumer (B2B2C) model. Our goal is to provide these clients opportunities to leverage our capabilities either through their existing environment or by leveraging our platform. Our acquisition of Apex Crypto complements our B2B2C growth strategy by broadening our business partnerships to fintechs and neo-banks. Our ability to grow our client and revenue base through the Apex Crypto acquisition is dependent on successful integration of the businesses post-transaction close. Product Expansion and Innovation The crypto marketplace is rapidly evolving. Our ability to continue innovating our platform will increase the attractiveness of our platform to clients. Our ability to meet the capability demands of our clients will allow us to continue to grow revenue. Competition The crypto marketplace is highly competitive with numerous participants competing for the same clients. We believe we are uniquely positioned with our ability to provide capabilities around emerging cryptoassets alongside loyalty points on a single, highly secure, institutional-grade technology platform. General Economic and Market Conditions Our performance is impacted by the strength of the overall macroeconomic environment and crypto market conditions, which are beyond our control. Negative market conditions hinder client activity, including extended decision timelines around implementing crypto strategies. In 2022, the crypto markets were impacted by, among other things, significant volatility in cryptoasset prices, bankruptcies of several cryptocurrency exchanges, regulatory actions and adverse publicity. Although we did not have any exposure to the companies that halted activities in 2022, we were nonetheless impacted by the broader conditions in the crypto markets. In addition, during 2022 and 2023, macroeconomic conditionsincluding rising interest rates, spikes in inflation rates and market volatility, along with geopolitical concerns, including the war in Ukraine and the sanctions and other measures that have been and continue to be imposed in response to the warcreated uncertainty and volatility in the global economy. We expect the macroeconomic environment and the state of the crypto markets to remain dynamic in the near-term, and we will continue to monitor macroeconomic and crypto market conditions, and the potential impacts that any of the foregoing may have on our business. 33 Table of Contents Regulations in U.S. Markets We are subject to many complex, uncertain and overlapping local, state and federal laws, rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations (collectively, laws and regulations) in the markets in which we operate. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, consumer protection, privacy and data protection, labor and employment, anti-money laundering, money transmission, competition, and marketing and communications practices. These laws and regulations will likely have evolving interpretations and applications, particularly as we introduce new products and services and expand into new jurisdictions. We are seeking to bring trust and transparency to crypto. We will progressively be subject to laws and regulations relating to the collection, use, retention, security, and transfer of information, including the personally identifiable information of our clients and all of the users in the information chain. We have developed and frequently evaluate and update our compliance models to ensure that we are complying with applicable restrictions. We continue to work with regulators to address the emerging global landscape for crypto. As investment continues, the intersection of technology and finance will require ongoing engagement as new applications emerge. Cryptoasset and distributed ledger technology have significant, positive potential with proper collaboration between industry and regulators. For more information around regulations, please see Item 1. Business. Safeguarding Obligation Liability and Safeguarding Asset Related to Crypto Held for Other Parties As detailed in Note 18 in the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in this Report, upon the adoption of Staff Accounting Bulletin 121 (SAB 121), we recorded a safeguarding obligation liability and a corresponding safeguarding asset related to the crypto held for other parties. As of March 31, 2023, the safeguarding obligation liability related to cryptoassets held for other parties was approximately $26.1 million. We have taken steps to mitigate the potential risk of loss for the crypto we hold for other parties, including holding insurance coverage specifically for certain crypto incidents and using secure cold storage to store the vast majority of crypto that we hold. SAB 121 also asks us to consider the legal ownership of the crypto held for other parties, including whether the crypto held for other parties would be available to satisfy general creditor claims in the event of our bankruptcy. The legal rights with respect to crypto held on behalf of third parties by a custodian, such as us, upon the custodians bankruptcy have not yet been settled by courts and are highly fact-dependent. However, based on the terms of our terms of service and applicable law, in the event that we were to enter bankruptcy, we believe the crypto that we hold in custody for users of our platform should be respected as users property (and should not be available to satisfy the claims of our general creditors). We do not allow users to purchase crypto on margin, and crypto held on our platform does not serve as collateral for margin loans. We hold crypto in custody for users in one or more omnibus crypto wallets; we do not presently utilize third-party custodians. We hold cryptographic key information and maintain internal record keeping for the crypto we hold in custody for users, and we are obligated to secure such assets from loss or theft. Our contractual arrangements state that our customers and clients retain legal ownership of the crypto custodied by us on their behalf; they also benefit from the rewards and bear the risks associated with their ownership, including as a result of any price fluctuations. We have been monitoring and will continue to actively monitor legal and regulatory developments and may consider further steps, as appropriate, to support this contractual position so that in the event of our bankruptcy, the crypto custodied by us should not be deemed to be part of our bankruptcy estate. We do not expect potential future cash flows associated with the crypto safeguarding obligation liability. Key Performance Indicators We use two key performance indicators (KPIs) that are key to understanding our business performance, as they reflect the different ways we enable clients to engage with our platform. Transacting accounts. We define transacting accounts as unique accounts that perform transactions on our platform each month. We use transacting accounts to reflect how users across our platform use the variety of 34 Table of Contents services we offer, such as redeeming loyalty points for travel or merchandise, buying and selling crypto to facilitate everyday purchases, or converting loyalty points to cash or gift cards. There were 0.7 million unique monthly transacting accounts during the three months ending March 31, 2023. Digital asset conversion volume. This KPI refers to the dollar value of transaction volume across our platform, including loyalty redemption and crypto buy/sell transactions. Our loyalty point and notional traded crypto volume was $193 million during the three months ending March 31, 2023. Results of Operations The following table is our consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, respectively, (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Revenues: Net revenues (includes related party net revenues of $1 and $20, respectively) $ 12,986 $ 12,532 Operating expenses: Compensation and benefits 34,144 35,088 Professional services 2,378 4,675 Technology and communication 5,718 4,358 Selling, general and administrative 6,709 9,435 Acquisition-related expenses 776 516 Depreciation and amortization 3,063 5,851 Related party expenses 600 367 Restructuring expenses 4,251 Other operating expenses 795 728 Total operating expenses 58,434 61,018 Operating loss (45,448) (48,486) Interest income, net 1,624 61 (Loss) gain from change in fair value of warrant liability (1,000) 2,428 Other expense, net (17) (462) Loss before income taxes (44,841) (46,459) Income tax benefit (expense) (18) 3,138 Net loss $ (44,859) $ (43,321) Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (30,883) (36,193) Net loss attributable to Bakkt Holdings, Inc. (13,976) (7,128) Net loss per share attributable to Class A common stockholders. Basic $ (0.17) $ (0.12) Diluted $ (0.17) $ (0.12) 35 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Financial Summary The three months ended March 31, 2023 included the following notable items relative to the three months ended March 31, 2022: Revenue increased $0.5 million, or 4%, primarily driven by an increase transaction revenue from the loyalty redemption business; and Operating expenses decreased $2.6 million primarily driven by lower depreciation and amortization and reduced marketing expenses. Revenue ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 $ Change % Change Net revenues $ 12,986 $ 12,532 $ 454 3.6 % Net Revenues Net revenues consist of transaction revenue and subscription and service revenue. We receive revenue when consumers use our services to buy, sell, and redeem crypto and loyalty points. We generate revenue across our platform in the following key areas: Subscription and service revenue: We receive a recurring subscription revenue stream from client platform fees as well as service revenue from software development fees and call center support. Transaction revenue: We generate transaction revenue through loyalty redemption volumes where we receive a percentage fee based on the volume and from crypto buy/sell trades where we earn a spread on both legs of the transaction. Our revenue has seasonality and is typically higher in the fourth quarter, driven by holiday spending and the booking of travel. Revenue generated from our crypto services has been immaterial to date. However, we expect that transaction and subscription revenue from crypto trades will be significant drivers of our business, and we expect those revenues to increase as we grow our client base and our customers. As a result, over time, we expect loyalty revenue, which has been the source of substantially all of our revenue historically, to decrease as a percentage of overall revenue as the revenue from our other product and service offerings grows. Net revenues increased by $0.5 million, or 3.6%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was comprised of $1.0 million of increased transaction revenue, offset by $0.5 million of decreased subscription and service revenue. The increase in transaction revenue was primarily driven by higher customer activity in our loyalty redemption services business. The decrease in subscription and service revenue was related to reduced development services. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of compensation and benefits, professional services, technology and communication expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses, acquisition-related expenses, depreciation and amortization, affiliate expenses, impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets, long-lived assets, and goodwill, restructuring charges, and other operating expenses. 36 Table of Contents Compensation and Benefits ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 $ Change % Change Compensation and Benefits $ 34,144 $ 35,088 $ (944) (2.7 %) Compensation and benefits expense include all salaries and benefits, compensation for contract labor, incentive programs for employees, payroll taxes, share-based and unit-based compensation and other employee related costs. Compensation and benefits expense is the most significant component of our operating expenses, and we expect this will continue to be the case after the restructuring actions we took in the fourth quarter of 2022 and the first quarter of 2023. Headcount increased year over year across functions as we invested in strengthening our service offerings and enhancing our systems, processes, and controls. Our restructuring actions have re-set our expense base to meet current market demand, and we expect to limit future hiring and leverage the team we have built to date as well as our Apex Crypto acquisition to execute our growth strategy. Accordingly, we expect that our compensation and expenses will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time. Compensation and benefits decreased by $0.9 million, or 2.7%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $6.6 million in non-cash compensation and incentive bonuses and a decrease of $2.6 million in contract labor for software development costs, partially offset by an increase of $5.6 million in salaries, wages and benefits and $2.6 million in capitalized software development costs. Professional Services ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 $ Change % Change Professional Services $ 2,378 $ 4,675 $ (2,297) (49.1 %) Professional services expense includes fees for accounting, legal and regulatory fees. Professional services decreased by $2.3 million, or 49.1%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $1.3 million in audit and tax fees, $0.6 million in legal fees and $0.4 million in other professional fees. Technology and Communication ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 $ Change % Change Technology and Communication $ 5,718 $ 4,358 $ 1,360 31.2 % Technology and communication costs represent all non-headcount related costs to deliver technological solutions. Such costs principally include amounts paid for software licenses and software-as-a-service arrangements utilized for operating, administrative and information security activities, fees paid for third-party data center hosting arrangements, and fees paid to telecommunications service providers and for telecommunication software platforms necessary for operation of our customer support operations. These costs are driven by client requirements, system capacity, functionality and redundancy requirements. Technology and communications expense also includes fees paid for access to external market data and associated licensing costs, which may be impacted by growth in electronic contract volume, our capacity requirements, changes in the number of telecommunications hubs, and connections with customers to access our electronic platforms directly. Technology and communications expense increased by $1.4 million, or 31.2%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $1.2 million in hardware and software license fees. 37 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 $ Change % Change Selling, General and Administrative $ 6,709 $ 9,435 $ (2,726) (28.9 %) Selling, general and administrative expenses include marketing, advertising, business insurance, rent and occupancy, bank service charges, dues and subscriptions, travel and entertainment, rent and occupancy, and other general and administrative costs. Our marketing activities primarily consist of web-based promotionalcampaigns, promotional activities with clients, conferences and user events, and brand-building activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses do not include any headcount cost, which is reflected in the compensation and benefits financial statement line item. Our selling, general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars to support the projected growth in our business and requirements of being a public company, including increased insurance premiums and disclosure processes. However, we expect these costs will decrease as a percentage of our revenue in future years as we gain improved operating leverage from our projected revenue growth. Selling, general and administrative costs decreased by $2.7 million, or 28.9%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a $2.9 million reduction of marketing expenses. In 2022, the majority of marketing expenses were web-based promotional campaigns associated with our direct to consumer app, which we retired in the first quarter of 2023. We expect marketing efforts going forward to reflect our B2B2C focus and we will scale investments up or down depending on market conditions and opportunities. Acquisition-related Expenses ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 $ Change % Change Acquisition-related expenses $ 776 $ 516 $ 260 50.4 % Acquisition-related expenses increased by $0.3 million, or 50.4%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. Acquisition-related expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 consist of fees for investment banking advisors, lawyers, accountants, tax advisors and public relations firms related to the acquisitions of Apex Crypto and Bumped. The amount and timing of acquisition-related expenses is expected to vary across periods based on potential transaction activities. Depreciation and Amortization ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 $ Change % Change Depreciation and amortization $ 3,063 $ 5,851 $ (2,788) (47.6 %) Depreciation and amortization expense consists of amortization of intangible assets from business acquisitions, internally developed software and depreciation of purchased software and computer and office equipment over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets subject to amortization consist primarily of acquired technology and client relationships from the VIH Business Combination. Depreciation and amortization decreased by $2.8 million, or 47.6%, for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to lower net book values of intangible assets after impairments were recorded in 2022. 38 Table of Contents Restructuring Expenses ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 $ Change % Change Restructuring expenses $ 4,251 $ $ 4,251 n/m Restructuring expenses of $4.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 consist of severance costs and accelerated vesting of non-cash compensation as part of our business simplification initiatives to focus on capabilities with strong product market fit and scalability. (Loss) gain from Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liability ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 $ Change % Change (Loss) gain from change in fair value of warrant liability $ (1,000) $ 2,428 $ (3,428) n/m We recorded a loss of $1.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 for the change in fair value on the revaluation of our warrant liability associated with our public warrants. We recorded a gain of $2.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 for the change in fair value on the revaluation of our warrant liability associated with our public warrants. These are non-cash losses and gains and are driven by fluctuations in the market price of our public warrants. Other income (expense), net ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 $ Change % Change Other income (expense), net $ (17) $ (462) $ 445 (96.3 %) Other income (expense), net primarily consists of non-operating gains and losses. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we had expense of less than $0.1 million primarily related to foreign currency translation. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we recorded expense of $0.5 million primarily related to foreign currency translation. Income tax benefit (expense) ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 $ Change % Change Income tax benefit (expense) $ (18) $ 3,138 $ (3,156) n/m Income tax expense during the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily consists of current state tax expense related to certain state jurisdictions wherein we are required to file income tax returns during the period. Income tax benefit during the three months ended March 31, 2022 primarily consists of deferred tax benefit from net loss allocated to Bakkt Holdings, Inc. during the period. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, we had $50.8 million and $19.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, respectively. As of March 31, 2023, we also had $67.2 million of cash in escrow for the funding of the Apex acquisition, which closed on April 1, 2023. Additionally, as of March 31, 2023, we had $66.8 million of available-for-sale debt securities that mature over the next 3 to 6 months. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash deposits at banks and money market funds. Restricted cash is held to satisfy certain minimum capital requirements pursuant to regulatory requirements. 39 Table of Contents We intend to use our unrestricted cash and proceeds from maturity of available-for-sale debt securities to (i) maintain our sales and marketing efforts and activate crypto clients, (ii) maintain our research and product development efforts, and (iii) optimize our technology infrastructure and operational support. We expect to limit future hiring and leverage the team we have built to date as well as our Apex Crypto acquisition to execute our growth strategy. Excluding the cash purchase price to acquire Apex Crypto, we expect our cash usage in 2023 to decline from 2022 levels driven by the combined impact of increased revenue and expense reductions related to the completion of large-dollar investments in 2022 and benefits from restructuring actions. In addition, we may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies or intellectual property rights. However, we have no agreements or commitments with respect to any such acquisitions or investments at this time. Our expected uses of available funds are based upon our present plans, objectives and business condition. We have not determined all of the particular uses for the available funds, and management has not estimated the amount of funds, or the range of funds, to be used for any particular purpose. As a result, our management retain broad discretion over the available funds. Our future cash requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, the timing and extent of hiring and associated overhead to support projected growth in our business, sales and marketing costs to drive revenue growth, and software development investments to continue adding features and functionality to our technology platforms to align with market needs. We expect to augment our personnel with employees acquired in the Apex Crypto transaction. We believe that we substantially completed the necessary investment in our platforms in 2022, which enables us to simplify our organization and focus on the core capabilities that are critical to our strategy. Depending on the foregoing and other factors that may affect our business in the future, we may be required to seek additional capital contributions or debt financing in the future. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (47,241) $ (33,156) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 69,699 $ (3,122) Net cash provided by financing activities $ $ 1 Operating Activities Since our inception, we have yet to achieve positive cash flow from operations. Our primary uses of cash include compensation and benefits for headcount-related expenses, investment in software and product development of our technology platforms, and associated non-headcount technology and communication cost to develop, operate and support our customer-facing technology platforms. Net cash flows used in operating activities of $47.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily related to our net loss of $44.9 million and net cash outflows resulting from changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $15.4 million, offset by non-cash charges of $13.0 million. Net cash outflows from changes in our operating assets and liabilities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 resulted primarily from a $16.0 million decrease of accounts payable and accrued liabilities, which was partially offset by a decrease in prepaid insurance of $4.3 million. The non-cash charges primarily consisted of share-based compensation of $7.2 million and depreciation and amortization of $3.1 million. Net cash flows used in operating activities of $33.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 is primarily related to our net loss of $43.3 million and changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $4.0 million, offset 40 Table of Contents by non-cash charges of $14.2 million. The non-cash charges primarily consisted of share-based compensation of $13.2 million and depreciation and amortization of $5.9 million, offset by a gain from change in fair value of warrant liability of $2.4 million. Net cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted primarily from an increase in accounts receivables of $1.3 million, a decrease of accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $1.7 million and an increase in other assets and liabilities of $4.3 million, which were partially offset by a decrease in prepaid insurance of $4.3 million Investing Activities Net cash flows provided by investing activities of $69.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 consisted of the receipt of $101.0 million of proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities, partially offset by the purchase of $27.0 million of available-for-sale debt securities, $3.7 million of capitalized costs of internally developed software for our technology platforms and $0.6 million cash used to acquire Bumped. Net cash flows used in investing activities of $3.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 consisted of capitalized costs of internally developed software. Capitalized expenditures were primarily related to capitalized expenses associated with internally developed software for our technology platforms. Financing Activities We did not have any financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Net cash flows provided by financing activities of less than $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 resulted from proceeds from the exercise of public warrants. Tax Receivable Agreement Concurrently with the completion of the VIH Business Combination, we entered into a Tax Receivable Agreement ("TRA") with certain Bakkt Equity Holders. Pursuant to the TRA, among other things, holders of Bakkt Common Units may, subject to certain conditions, from and after April 16, 2022, exchange such Common Units (along with a corresponding number of shares of our Common Stock), for Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to the terms of the Exchange Agreement, including our right to elect to deliver cash in lieu of Class A common stock and, in certain cases, adjustments as set forth therein. Bakkt will have in effect an election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code for each taxable year in which an exchange of Bakkt Common Units for Class A common stock (or cash) occurs. The exchanges are expected to result in increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Bakkt. These increases in tax basis may reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future. These increases in tax basis may also decrease gains (or increase losses) on future dispositions of certain capital assets to the extent tax basis is allocated to those capital assets. The TRA provides for the payment by us to exchanging holders of Bakkt Common Units of 85% of certain net income tax benefits, if any, that we realize (or in certain cases is deemed to realize) as a result of these increases in tax basis related to entering into the TRA, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the TRA. This payment obligation is an obligation of the Company and not of Bakkt. For purposes of the TRA, the cash tax savings in income tax will be computed by comparing our actual income tax liability (calculated with certain assumptions) to the amount of such taxes that we would have been required to pay had there been no increase to the tax basis of the assets of Bakkt as a result of Bakkt having an election in effect under Section 754 of the Code for each taxable year in which an exchange of Bakkt Common Units for Class A common stock occurs and had we not entered into the TRA. Such change will be calculated under the TRA without regard to any transfers of Bakkt Common Units or distributions with respect to such Bakkt Common Units before the exchange under the Exchange Agreement to which Section 743(b) or 734(b) of the Code applies. As of March 31, 2023, 22,678,761 Opco common units were exchanged for Class A common stock. Based on the 41 Table of Contents Company's history of taxable losses, the Company has concluded that it is not probable to expect cash tax payments in the foreseeable future and as such, no value has been recorded under the TRA. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following is a summary of our significant contractual obligations and commitments as of March 31, 2023 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Total Purchase obligations(1) $ 4,050 $ 19,100 $ 900 $ $ 24,050 Future minimum operating lease payments(2) 4,551 10,794 7,471 13,601 36,417 Total contractual obligations $ 8,601 $ 29,894 $ 8,371 $ 13,601 $ 60,467 (1)Represents minimum commitment payments under a four-year cloud computing arrangement and a separate five-year marketing partnership. (2)Represents rental payments under operating leases with remaining non-cancellable terms in excess of one year. Additionally, we, through our loyalty business, had a purchasing card facility with a bank that we utilized for redemption purchases made from vendors as part of our loyalty redemption platform. Expenditures made using the purchasing card facility were payable monthly, were not subject to formula-based restrictions and did not bear interest if amounts outstanding were paid when due and in full. Among other covenants, the purchasing card facility required that we maintain a month-end cash balance of $40.0 million. In January 2021, the purchasing card facility was extended to April 15, 2022 in order to facilitate a long-term agreement on more favorable terms for us. In April 2022, we further extended the maturity date of the purchasing card facility to August 12, 2022, to transition over to the purchasing card facility with Bank of America described below. The maturity date of the purchasing card facility was further extended as of August 12, 2022 to January 13, 2023. During September 2022 we paid off the majority of the remaining balance of the purchasing card facility. The purchasing card facility was closed during October 2022. On April 7, 2022, we entered into a corporate card services agreement with Bank of America to provide a new purchasing card facility. Total borrowing capacity under the facility is $35 million and there is no defined maturity date. Expenditures made using the purchasing card facility are payable monthly, are not subject to formula-based restrictions and do not bear interest if amounts outstanding are paid when due and in full. The purchasing card facility requires us to maintain a concentration account with the lender subject to a minimum liquidity maintenance requirement of $7.0 million as collateral along with the accounts receivable of our subsidiary, within the loyalty business. Bakkt Holdings, Inc. serves as the guarantor on behalf of our subsidiary under the commercial purchasing card facility. We began using the purchasing card facility in August 2022. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use non-GAAP financial measures to assist in comparing our performance on a consistent basis for purposes of business decision-making by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our core operations. We believe that presenting non-GAAP financial measures is useful to investors because it (a) provides investors with meaningful supplemental information regarding financial performance by excluding certain items that we believe do not directly reflect our core operations, (b) permits investors to view performance using the same tools that we use to budget, forecast, make operating and strategic decisions, and evaluate historical performance, and (c) otherwise provides supplemental information that may be useful to investors in evaluating our results. 42 Table of Contents We believe that the presentation of the following non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to those measures provided herein, provides investors with an additional understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business that could not be obtained absent these disclosures. Adjusted EBITDA We present Adjusted EBITDA as a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides relevant and useful information, which is used by management in assessing the performance of our business. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization, acquisition-related expenses, share-based and unit-based compensation expense, goodwill and intangible assets impairments, restructuring charges, changes in the fair value of our warrant liability and certain other non-cash and/or non-recurring items that do not contribute directly to our evaluation of operating results and are not components of our core business operations. Adjusted EBITDA provides management with an understanding of earnings before the impact of investing and financing transactions and income taxes, and the effects ofaforementioned items that do not reflect the ordinary earnings of our operations. This measure may be useful to an investor in evaluating our performance. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of our financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to net income (loss) or other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures like Adjusted EBITDA have limitations, should be considered as supplemental in nature and are not meant as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures should be considered alongside other financial performance measures, including net loss and our other financial results presented in accordance with GAAP. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP operating performance measure, to our Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Net loss $ (44,859) $ (43,321) Depreciation and amortization 3,063 5,851 Interest income, net (1,624) (61) Income tax expense (benefit) 18 (3,138) EBITDA (43,402) (40,669) Acquisition-related expenses 776 516 Share-based and unit-based compensation expense 7,921 13,347 Cancellation of common units (60) Loss (gain) from change in fair value of warrant liability 1,000 (2,428) Restructuring expenses 4,251 ICE transition services expense 600 367 Adjusted EBITDA loss $ (28,854) $ (28,927) Adjusted EBITDA loss for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased by less than $0.1 million or (0.3)% as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increased loss was primarily due to a $5.6 million increase in salaries, wages and benefits resulting from higher headcount to support the projected growth in our business, partially offset by a $2.7 million reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses as part of our efforts to exercise prudent expense management, as well as a $2.3 million reduction in professional services fees. 43 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts. In our notes to the audited consolidated financial statements, we describe the significant accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Our management has discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. For further information about our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since our Form 10-K. Use of Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates and assumptions on various judgments that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The significant estimates and assumptions that affect the financial statements may include, but are not limited to, those that are related to income tax valuation allowances, useful lives of intangible assets and property, equipment and software, fair value of financial assets and liabilities, determining provision for doubtful accounts, valuation of acquired tangible and intangible assets, the impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, and fair market value of Bakkt common units, incentive units and participation units. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management's estimates and assumptions and such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements are described in Note 2 in the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in this Report.