ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to VPC Impact Acquisition Holdings. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to VPC Impact Acquisition Holdings Sponsor, LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intends, may, might, plan, possible, potential, predict, project, should, would and variations thereof and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K/A filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on May 21, 2021. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on July 31, 2020 as a Cayman Islands exempted company for the purpose of effecting a Business Combination. We intend to effectuate our initial Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of our Initial Public Offering and the sale of the private placement warrants, our shares, debt or a combination of cash, equity and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. 20 Table of Contents Recent Developments Agreement for Business Combination On January 11, 2021, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement), with Pylon Merger Company LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of VIH (Merger Sub), and Bakkt Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (Bakkt). The Merger Agreement provides that, among other things and upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, the following transactions will occur (together with the other agreements and transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Proposed Transaction): (i) at the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement (the Closing), in accordance with the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, as amended (DLLCA), Merger Sub will merge (the Merger) with and into Bakkt, the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub will cease and Bakkt will be the surviving limited liability company, to be renamed Bakkt Opco Holdings, LLC (Bakkt Opco); (ii) immediately prior to the closing of the PIPE Investment (as defined below) and the effective time of the Merger, in connection with the Domestication described below, VIH will be renamed Bakkt Holdings, Inc. (referred to hereinafter as Bakkt Pubco); and (iii) as a result of the Merger, the aggregate consideration to be received in respect of the Merger by all of the Bakkt interest holders will be an aggregate of 208,200,000 common units of Bakkt Opco (Bakkt Opco Units) and 208,200,000 shares of class V common stock of Bakkt Pubco, which will be non-economic, voting shares of Bakkt Pubco. The board of directors of the Company has unanimously (i) approved the Merger Agreement, the Proposed Transaction and the other transactions contemplated thereby and (ii) resolved to recommend approval of the Merger Agreement and related matters by the shareholders of VIH. Prior to the Closing, subject to the approval of our shareholders, and in accordance with the DGCL, Cayman Islands Companies Act (as revised) (the CICA) and our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, we will effect a deregistration under the CICA and a domestication under Section 388 of the DGCL (by means of filing a certificate of domestication with the Secretary of State of Delaware), pursuant to which our jurisdiction of incorporation will be changed from the Cayman Islands to the State of Delaware (the Domestication). Upon the Closing, Bakkt Pubco will be organized in an Up-C structure in which substantially all of the assets and the business of Bakkt Pubco will be held by Bakkt Opco and its subsidiaries, and Bakkt Pubcos only direct assets will consist of Bakkt Opco Units. Assuming no redemptions of public shares in connection with the Proposed Transaction, upon the Closing Bakkt Pubco is expected to own approximately 22% of Bakkt Opco Units and will be the managing member of Bakkt Opco. All remaining Bakkt Opco Units will be owned by the former equity owners of Bakkt (Bakkt Equity Holders). On January 11, 2021, concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, we entered into subscription agreements with certain investors (collectively, the PIPE Investors which include certain existing equity holders of the Company and Bakkt), pursuant to, and on the terms and subject to the conditions of which, the PIPE Investors have collectively subscribed for 32,500,000 Bakkt Pubco Class A Shares for an aggregate purchase price equal to $325,000,000 (the PIPE Investment). The consummation of the proposed business combination described herein is subject to certain conditions as further described in the Merger Agreement. For more information about the Merger Agreement and the proposed business combination, see our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 11, 2021 (File No. 001-39544) and the prospectus included in our Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed with the SEC on March 31, 2021 (File No. 333-254935) (the Bakkt Disclosure Statement). Unless specifically stated, this Quarterly Report does not give effect to the Proposed Transaction and does not contain the risks associated with the Proposed Transaction. Such risks and effects relating to the Proposed Transaction will be included in the Bakkt Disclosure Statement. 21 Table of Contents Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations (other than searching for a Business Combination after our Initial Public Offering and entering into the Merger Agreement described above) nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from inception to September 30, 2021 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and, after the Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for a Business Combination and entering into the Merger Agreement. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in a trust account (the Trust Account). We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with completing a Business Combination. For the three months ended September 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $483,148, which consisted of general and administrative cost of $2,241,776, offset by interest earned on investments held in the Trust Account of $2,669 and change in fair value of warrant liability of $1,755,959. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $12,885,106, which consisted of changes in fair value of warrant liability of $7,086,905 and general and administrative cost of $5,822,575, offset by other income of $4,476 and interest earned on investment held in the Trust Account of $19,898. For the period from July 31, 2020 (inception) through September 30, 2020, we had net loss of $3,032,369, which consisted of general and administrative cost of $17,543, transaction cost related to warrant liability of $754,990 and a change in fair value of warrant liability of $2,260,000, offset by interest earned on investments held in Trust Account of $164. Liquidity and Capital Resources Until the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, our only source of liquidity was an initial purchase of ordinary shares by the Sponsor and loans from our Sponsor. On September 25, 2020, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 20,000,000 units (the Units), at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $200,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 6,000,000 warrants (the Private Placement Warrants) to the Sponsor at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant generating gross proceeds of $6,000,000. Following the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $200,000,000 was placed in the Trust Account, and we had $1,205,178 of cash held outside of the Trust Account, after payment of costs related to the Initial Public Offering, and available for working capital purposes. We incurred $11,906,606 in transaction costs, including $4,147,440 of underwriting fees, $7,258,021 of deferred underwriting fees and $501,146 of other offering costs. On October 1, 2020, in connection with the underwriters election to partially exercise of their over-allotment option, we consummated the sale of an additional 737,202 Units and the sale of an additional 147,440 Private Placement Warrants, generating total gross proceeds of $7,519,460. A total of $7,372,020 of the net proceeds was deposited into the Trust Account, bringing the aggregate proceeds held in the Trust Account to $207,372,020. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, net cash used in operating activities was $469,036, which consisted of our net loss of $12,885,106 affected by interest earned on investments of $19,898, changes in fair value of warrant liability of $7,086,905 and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which provided $5,349,063 of cash from operating activities. For the period from July 31, 2020 (inception) through September 30, 2020, net cash used in operating activities was $289,300, which consisted of our net loss of $3,032,369 affected by interest earned on investments of $164, changes in fair value of warrant liability of $2,260,000, formation costs of $6,606, transaction cost related to warrant liability of $754,990 and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which used $278,363 of cash from operating activities. At September 30, 2021, we had investments held in the Trust Account of $207,396,111. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account, which interest shall be net of taxes payable and excluding deferred underwriting commissions, to complete our Business Combination. We may withdraw interest from the Trust Account to pay taxes, if any. To the extent that our share capital or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete a Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. At September 30, 2021, we had cash of $708,642 held outside of the Trust Account. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we may repay such loaned amounts out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to us. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts, but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant, at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. 22 Table of Contents If the Business Combination is not consummated, the Company will need to raise additional capital through loans or additional investments from its Sponsor, stockholders, officers, directors, or third parties. The Companys officers, directors and Sponsor may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds, from time to time or at any time, in whatever amount they deem reasonable in their sole discretion, to meet the Companys working capital needs. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to obtain additional financing. If the Company is unable to raise additional capital, it may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, curtailing operations, suspending the pursuit of a potential transaction, and reducing overhead expenses. The Company cannot provide any assurance that new financing will be available to it on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern through one year from the date of these financial statements if a Business Combination is not consummated. These financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recovery of the recorded assets or the classification of the liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2021. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay the Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, utilities, secretarial and administrative support services, provided to the Company. We began incurring these fees on September 25, 2020 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of a Business Combination and the Companys liquidation. Underwriting Agreement The underwriters were paid a cash underwriting discount of $0.20 per Unit, or $4,147,440 in the aggregate. In addition, $0.35 per Public Share, or approximately $7,258,021 in the aggregate will be payable to the underwriters for deferred underwriting commissions. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies. Warrant Liabilities We account for the warrants issued in connection with our Initial Public Offering in accordance with the guidance contained in ASC 815 under which the warrants do not meet the criteria for equity treatment and must be recorded as liabilities. Accordingly, we classify the warrants as liabilities at their fair value and adjust the warrants to fair value at each reporting period. This liability is subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in our statement of operations. The fair value of the warrants was estimated using a Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model. For periods subsequent to the detachment of the Public Warrants from the Units, the close price of the Public Warrant price was used as the fair value of the Public Warrants as of each relevant date. Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in ASC Topic 480. Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that features redemption rights that is either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our condensed balance sheets. Net Income (Loss) Per Ordinary Share Net loss per ordinary share is computed by dividing net loss by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Accretion associated with the redeemable shares of Class A ordinary shares is excluded from earnings per share as the redemption value approximates fair value. 23 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Standards In August 2020, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. ASU2020-06 removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception and it also simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. ASU2020-06 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The Company adopted ASU2020-06 effective as of January 1, 2021. The adoption of ASU2020-06 did not have an impact on the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the consolidated financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.