Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated -27- Table of Contents financial statements and accompanying notes, before making a decision to invest in our securities. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that you should consider before investing in our securities. These risks are described more fully below and include, but are not limited to, risks relating to the following: Risks Related to Our Business, Finances and Operations Our business model is newly developed and may encounter additional risks and challenges as it grows. Our platform is still in the early stages of its release, will be further developed, and is largely untested. We have limited operating history and a history of operating losses. If we are unable to attract, retain or grow our relationships with our existing clients, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Some of our current and prospective clients require the approval of their own regulators in order to deploy our solutions, especially our crypto solutions, and if they are unable to obtain those approvals on a timely basis, or at all, our results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. A large percentage of our revenue is concentrated with a small number of clients; the loss of any such client would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Moreover, because of our B2B2C go-to-market model, the loss of any client regardless of the reason increases the risk that the customers that originally emanated from that client will transition to another provider or stop doing business with us, which would harm our business. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future investments, strategic transactions, or acquisitions and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. Risks Related to Crypto Disruptions in the crypto market subject us to additional risks, including the risk that banks may not provide banking services to us. There may be a general perception among regulators and others that crypto is used to facilitate illegal activity such as fraud, money laundering, tax evasion and ransomware scams. Crypto custodial solutions and related technology, including our systems and custodial arrangements, are subject to risks related to a loss of funds due to theft, employee or vendor sabotage, security and cybersecurity risks, system failures and other operational issues the loss, destruction or other compromise of our private keys and a lack of sufficient insurance. Our failure to safeguard and manage our customers crypto could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Crypto does not have extensive historical precedent and distributed ledger technology continues to rapidly evolve. We may encounter technical issues in connection with the integration of supported crypto assets and changes and upgrades to their underlying networks, which could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Regulation, Taxation and Laws We are subject to extensive government regulation, oversight, licensure and appraisals and our failure to comply could materially harm our business. -28- Table of Contents The regulatory regime governing blockchain technologies and crypto is uncertain, and new regulations or policies may alter or significantly adversely affect our business practices with respect to crypto. A crypto assets status as a security in any relevant jurisdiction is subject to a high degree of uncertainty, and if crypto assets on our platform are later determined to be securities, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny, investigations, fines, and other penalties, which may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are subject to significant litigation risk and risk of regulatory liability and penalties. Any current or future litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. Risks Related to Information Technology and Data Actual or perceived cyberattacks, security incidents, or breaches could result in serious harm to our reputation, business and financial condition. Risks Related to Risk Management and Financial Reporting If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we may be unable to produce timely and accurate financial statements, which could have a material effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Securities The trading market for our securities has in the past been and could in the future be impacted by market volatility. Stock run-ups, divergences in valuation ratios relative to those seen during traditional markets, high short interest or short squeezes, and strong and atypical retail investor interest in the markets may impact the demand for our securities. Risks Related to Our Business, Finances and Operations Our business model is newly developed and may encounter additional risks and challenges as it grows. Our vision is that our clients will utilize our platform as the go-to solution enabling customers to transact in crypto and loyalty points. Most of the assets that we have incorporated and intend to incorporate into our platform in the future are already being handled by incumbent providers. There can be no assurance that our platform will gain the acceptance of clients or customers or generate the anticipated synergies. Because some of the crypto assets that are anticipated to be available on our platform have not previously been available for the uses our platform is intended to cover, it is difficult to predict the preferences and requirements of clients or customers, and our platform, design and technology may not appeal to such clients or customers, or may be incompatible with new or emerging forms of crypto or related technologies. Failure to achieve acceptance would impede our ability to develop and sustain a commercial business. We primarily generate revenue when customers transact in crypto and loyalty points on our platform. Our success depends on bringing on clients and on the transaction volume from these customers. If we are not able to bring new clients onto the platform, many of whom will pay us subscription fees for our platform services, our revenue and business concern could be negatively impacted. Additionally, much of our future revenue depends on transaction fees earned from customers transacting in crypto and loyalty points and the margin we charge in connection with those transactions. If we are not able to continue to grow our base of clients, we will not be able to continue to grow our customer base, our revenues or our business, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and may cause us to be unable to continue as a going concern. The attractiveness of our platform depends upon, among other things: the number and variety of assets and other capabilities in which customers can transact through our platform; our reputation, as well as clients and customers experience and satisfaction with, and trust and perception of, our platform; -29- Table of Contents technological innovation; regulatory compliance and data security; and services and products offered by competitors. Moreover, clients may choose to contract with other providers of services that are competitive with ours. If we fail to retain existing clients, attract new clients, or continually expand usage and transaction volume on our platform, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be materially and adversely affected. We will have both increased financial and reputational risks if there is a failure to launch one or more features, or if the launch of a new feature is unsuccessful. Also, there can be no assurance that we will receive support from clients to launch features as planned or that we will operate as anticipated. We also require regulatory approvals, including, for example, to add new crypto assets, products, and functionalities to our platform, and may require additional licenses and/or consultation with or approval of regulators to add, modify or discontinue certain aspects of our business model, which could lead to delays or other complexities in effectuating such changes and have a material adverse effect on our business and plan of operations. Further, our business model entails numerous risks, including risks relating to our ability to: manage the complexity of our business model to stay current with the industry and new technologies; successfully enter new categories, markets and jurisdictions in which we may have limited or no prior experience; integrate into multiple distributed ledger technologies as they currently exist and as they evolve; successfully develop and integrate products, systems and personnel into our business operations; obtain and maintain required licenses and regulatory approvals for our business; and respond to, and comply with the evolving regulatory landscape for crypto and crypto platforms. Our platform is in its early stages of release, will be further developed, and is largely untested. Any failure by us to successfully execute on the development of our platform would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our platform is in the early stages of release and will be further refined and developed, and certain areas of our platform are still under development and largely untested on a commercial scale. We are working to expand our service offerings, including, for example offering crypto rewards. Our platform will require additional development in order to add all of the additional functionalities and features planned by our management and activate our service offerings. There can be no assurance that the additional functionalities and features currently planned for our platform will be successfully developed in a timely fashion or at all. The addition of functionalities to our platform may require regulatory approvals, may increase our regulatory obligations and the degree of regulatory scrutiny we face, and may make regulatory compliance more complex and burdensome. We will have both increased financial and reputational risks if there is a failure to launch one or more functionalities, or if the launch of a new functionality is unsuccessful. Also, there can be no assurance that we will receive the necessary regulatory approvals or support from clients to launch features as planned or that we will operate as anticipated. Any problems that we encounter with the development or operation of our platform, including technical, legal and regulatory problems, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a limited operating history and a history of operating losses, which make it difficult to forecast our future results of operations. Further, we expect to reduce our operating expenses in the foreseeable future, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability to absorb our targeted expense base. We were founded in 2018 and have experienced net losses in the periods from inception through December 31, 2023. For example, our revenue was $727.0 million and $56.2 million in the years ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, and we generated net losses of $225.8 million and $1,989.9 million in the years ended -30- Table of Contents December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. You should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to accurately forecast our future results of operations is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. Prior to the Bakkt Crypto acquisition, our historical revenue was achieved largely as the result of our white-labeled loyalty redemption product, which reflects little revenue from the launch of our broader crypto platform, and therefore should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Because of our limited operating history and the fact that our current and historical revenue prior to the Bakkt Crypto Acquisition was largely not derived from our currently planned business model, our future revenue growth is difficult to predict. Even if we experience strong revenue growth, in future periods our revenue or revenue growth could decline for a number of reasons, including slowing demand for our platform, increased competition, changes to technology, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, or our failure, for any reason, to take advantage of growth opportunities. We have also encountered, and will continue to encounter, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks and uncertainties described below. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties and our future revenue growth are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations, and our business could suffer. After increasing our operating costs and expenses in 2022 to complete our product road map and build public company infrastructure, we expect to reduce our operating expenses in the foreseeable future. In particular, we intend to continue to invest significant resources to further develop our platform. We have incurred increased general and administrative expenses associated with our growth, including legal and accounting expenses and costs related to internal systems and operating as a public company. We may not be able to achieve the operating expense reductions we are targeting to align with our revenue growth assumptions. Our efforts to operate our business may be costlier than we expect, or our revenue growth rate may be slower than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our operating expenses resulting from these investments. If we are unable to achieve the revenue growth that we expect from these investments, reduce our operating expenses, or achieve profitability, it would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the value of our business and our securities may significantly decrease. Substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions that occur during that quarter, which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant fluctuations in our operating results. Our quarterly results, including revenue, expenses, consumer metrics and other key metrics, are derived from transactions that occur during that quarter. Accordingly, our quarterly results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control. It is difficult for us to forecast accurately the level or source of our revenues, earnings and expenses, and the results for any one quarter are not necessarily an indication of future performance or expenses. Moreover, because of these fluctuations, our quarterly results may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. If our revenue, expenses, or key metrics in future quarters fall short of the expectations of our investors and financial analysts, the price of our securities could be adversely affected. Other factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly results include: our ability to attract and retain clients and customers; transaction volume and mix; rates of repeat transaction and fluctuations in usage of our platform, including seasonality; the amount and timing of our expenses related to acquiring clients and customers and the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; changes to our relationships with our clients; general economic, industry and market conditions; -31- Table of Contents competitive dynamics in the industry in which we operate; the amount and timing of stock-based compensation expenses; network outages, cyberattacks, or other actual or perceived security incidents or breaches or data privacy violations; changes in laws and regulations that impact our business; the cost and outcomes of existing or potential claims or litigation; and the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses and potential future charges for impairment of goodwill from acquired technologies or businesses. If we are unable to attract, retain or grow our relationships with our existing clients, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, sales efforts to large clients involve risks that may not be present or that are present to a lesser extent with respect to sales to smaller organizations. For our platform to be successful, we must continue our existing partnerships, and successfully develop new, partnerships with clients. Our ability to retain and grow our relationships with our clients depends on the willingness of those clients to establish a commercial relationship with us. If clients with whom we develop partnerships fail to market or do not effectively market our platform to their customers, or customers fail to adopt our platform through these marketing efforts in such numbers as we have projected, our customer acquisition costs may increase and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Sales to large clients involve risks that may not be present or that are present to a lesser extent with sales to smaller organizations, such as longer sales cycles, more complex requirements and substantial upfront sales costs. For example, large clients may require considerable time to evaluate and test our platform prior to making a decision, or may request pricing models that may decrease our potential margins. Several factors influence the length and variability of our sales cycle, including the need to educate potential clients about the uses and benefits of our platform, the discretionary nature of purchasing and budget cycles, and the competitive nature of evaluation and purchasing approval processes. In order for our sales efforts to large organizations to be successful, we often must be able to engage with senior officers of the organization. As a result, the length of our sales cycle, from identification of the opportunity to deal closure, may vary significantly for each client, with sales to large enterprises typically taking longer to complete. If we fail to effectively manage the risks associated with sales cycles and sales to large clients, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Moreover, when we execute an agreement with a client, we are still dependent on that client to deploy our platform. Larger clients, in particular, often delay deployment for a lengthy period of time after executing an agreement. Even when clients begin their integration into our platform, they do so on a limited basis while frequently requiring that we provide implementation services, which may include customization and controls that limit the functionality of our platform, and negotiate pricing discounts, which increases our upfront investment in the sales effort with no guarantee that sales to these clients will justify our upfront investment, which can be substantial. If a client delays deployment for lengthy periods of time, our consumer and revenue growth may not achieve expectations and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our agreements with our clients have terms that range from approximately one to three years, and in some cases, our existing clients can generally terminate these agreements without cause upon 30 to 90 days prior written notice. In addition, many of those agreements also provide for the right of the client to terminate the agreement, or for us to pay financial penalties, in the event that we breach certain service level agreements with respect to the operation of our platform. The termination of one or more of our agreements with a client would result in a reduction in a loss of transacting accounts, transaction volume and revenue attributable to customers generated from that client relationship, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. -32- Table of Contents Additionally, certain terms of our client agreements remain subject to further discussion and refinement before they can be implemented, including the potential products and services to bring to market. Our ability to realize the intended benefits of these partnerships will depend on our ability to finalize such agreements, for such products and services, and to do so on terms sufficiently favorable to us. While we continue to negotiate client agreement terms, we may be unable to agree to terms with such clients on commercially advantageous terms or at all, which may adversely affect our business and prospects. Furthermore, our ability to retain existing, or obtain new, clients and customers may be impacted to the extent that clients choose not to partner with us, or customers choose not to transact or to engage in fewer transactions on our platform, in each case, because we do not currently offer or plan to cease offering certain crypto assets. For example, Bakkt has delisted a substantial majority of the crypto assets that had historically been available for trading on the Bakkt Crypto platform. The decision to delist those crypto assets has impacted, and may in the future further impact, our revenues as additional crypto assets are delisted and may impact the expected synergies and benefits from the Bakkt Crypto acquisition. If clients do not engage with us, or if customers choose not to transact or make fewer transactions on our platform, as a result of the decision to delist those crypto assets or our decision not to offer other crypto assets, our revenues will be adversely impacted. Any of the foregoing could, among other things, adversely impact our stock price, make us less competitive compared to our peers and otherwise significantly adversely affect our business. Some of our current and prospective clients require the approval of their own regulators in order to deploy our solutions, especially our crypto solutions, and if they are unable to obtain those approvals on a timely basis, or at all, our results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Some of our current and prospective clients themselves are regulated entities that may be restricted from engaging with us. For instance, several banks to whom we seek to provide our crypto solutions are regulated by the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and/or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Pursuant to statements made by these regulators in the last several months, banks they regulate are required to consult with, and potentially obtain the approval of, their relevant regulator before engaging in crypto-related activities. If these banks, or other current or prospective clients that are regulated entities, are unable to obtain the approval of their regulators, or the timing of such approvals is delayed, that failure or delay would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and future prospects. We face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the industries in which we operate. The crypto and loyalty and rewards industries are highly competitive, rapidly changing, highly innovative, and increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny and oversight. Although we do not believe that we have any single direct competitor for the full range of products we provide through our platform, we compete against a wide range of businesses in the crypto and loyalty industries generally, including those that are larger than us, have greater name recognition, larger pools of deployable capital, longer operating histories, or a dominant or more secure position, or offer other products and services to customers that we do not offer, as well as smaller or younger companies that may be more agile in responding quickly to regulatory and technological changes. Many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting consumer needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Competition also may intensify as businesses enter into business combinations and partnerships, and established companies in other segments expand to become competitive with different aspects of our business. We compete primarily on the basis of the following: ability to attract, retain and engage clients (and in turn, customers) on our platform; ability to demonstrate to clients that they may achieve incremental revenue and attract new customers by using and offering our services to their customers; confidence in the safety, security, privacy and control of customer information on our platform; -33- Table of Contents ability to develop products and services across multiple commerce channels, including crypto and loyalty points; and system reliability, regulatory compliance and data security. We partner with many businesses and consider the ability to continue establishing these partnerships important to our business. Competition for relationships with these clients is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to establish, grow, or maintain these client relationships. Some of our current and potential competitors have larger customer bases, broader geographic scope, volume, scale, resources and market share than we do, which may provide them significant competitive advantages. Some competitors may also be subject to less burdensome licensing, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing and other regulatory requirements. They may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products and services, and offer lower prices or more effectively offer their own innovative programs, products and services. We also compete against a large number of decentralized and noncustodial platforms. On these platforms, customers can interact directly with a market-making smart contract or on-chain trading mechanism to exchange one type of crypto for another without any centralized intermediary. These platforms are typically not as easy to use as our platform, and some lack the speed and liquidity of centralized platforms, but various innovative models and incentives have been designed to bridge the gap. In addition, such platforms have low startup and entry costs as market entrants often remain unregulated and have minimal operating and regulatory costs. If the demand for decentralized platforms grows and we are unable to compete with these decentralized and noncustodial platforms, our business may be adversely affected. If we are not able to differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors, drive value for our clients and customers, or effectively and efficiently align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively in the market. If our platform does not meet our service level commitments, our revenue and reputation may be negatively impacted. We typically commit, through service level agreements or otherwise, to maintaining a minimum service levels with respect to our platforms functionality, availability and response time. If we are unable to meet these commitments, we may be obligated to provide clients with remedies set forth below. A failure to meet service level commitments, even for a relatively short duration, could cause us to be contractually obligated to issue credits or refunds to a large number of affected clients and customers, or could result in the dissatisfaction or loss of clients and customers. Affected participants could also choose to pursue other legal remedies that may be available to them. In addition, we rely on public cloud providers, such as Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud, and any availability interruption in the public cloud could result in us not meeting our service-level commitments. In some cases, we may not have a contractual right with our public cloud providers that compensates us for any losses due to availability interruptions in the public cloud. Any of the above circumstances or events may impact our revenues, harm our reputation, impair our ability to develop our platform and grow our base of clients and customers, subject us to financial penalties and liabilities under our service level agreements and otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face operational, legal and other risks related to our reliance on third party vendors, over which we have no control. We face operational risk because we rely on third party vendors to provide us with financial, technology and other services and to facilitate certain of our business activities, including, for example, marketing services, fulfillment services, cloud-based computer and data storage and other IT solutions and payment processing. -34- Table of Contents These third parties may be subject to financial, legal, regulatory and labor issues, cyberattacks, security incidents, privacy breaches, service terminations, disruptions or interruptions, or other problems, which may impose additional costs or requirements on us or prevent these third parties from providing services to us or our customers on our behalf, which could harm our business. Additionally, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and other regulators have issued guidance stating that institutions under their supervision may be held responsible for the actions of the companies with which they contract. Accordingly, we could be adversely impacted to the extent our vendors fail to comply with the legal requirements applicable to the particular products or services being offered. In some cases, vendors are the sole source, or one of a limited number of sources, of the services they provide to us. For example, we are solely reliant on our agreement with our cloud computing web services provider for the provision of cloud infrastructure services to support our platform. Most of our vendor agreements are terminable by the vendor with little or no notice, and if our current vendors were to terminate their agreements with us or otherwise stop providing services to us on acceptable terms, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other vendors in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. If any vendor fails to provide the services we require, fails to meet contractual requirements (including compliance with applicable laws and regulations), fails to maintain adequate data privacy controls and electronic security systems, or suffers a cyberattack or other security incident or breach, we could be subject to CFPB, Federal Trade Commission, SEC, and other regulatory enforcement actions, claims from third parties, including our customers, incur significant costs to resolve any issues or suffer economic and reputational harm, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative products and services, the use of our products and services may not develop, and, consequently, our business would suffer. Rapid, significant and disruptive technological changes impact the industries in which we operate, including developments in crypto (including distributed ledger and blockchain technologies). As a result, we expect new services and technologies to continue to emerge and evolve, and we cannot predict the effects of technological changes on our business. In addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we rely in part on third parties for the development of and access to new or evolving technologies. These third parties may restrict or prevent our access to, or utilization of, those technologies, as well as their platforms or products. In addition, we may not be able to accurately predict which technological developments or innovations will become widely adopted and how those technologies may be regulated. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the industries in which we operate will continue to emerge and may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. Developing and incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require substantial expenditures, take considerable time, and ultimately may not be successful. In addition, our ability to adopt new products and services and to develop new technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, payments networks, changes to laws and regulations, resistance to change from clients or customers, third-party intellectual property rights, or other factors. Our success will depend on our ability to develop and incorporate new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. A large percentage of our revenue is concentrated with a small number of clients; the loss of any such client would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Moreover, because of our B2B2C go-to-market model, the loss of any client regardless of the reason increases the risk that the customers that originally emanated from that client will transition to another provider or stop doing business with us, which would harm our business. The concentration of a significant portion of our business and transaction volume with a limited number of clients exposes us disproportionately to the risk of any of those clients choosing to no longer partner with us, to the economic performance of such clients or their respective industries or to any events, circumstances, or risks affecting such clients or their respective industries. Any such loss could make our platform less appealing to existing and potential customers. Accordingly, the loss of any significant client relationship could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. -35- Table of Contents Acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships, or alliances may be difficult to identify. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future investments, strategic transactions or acquisitions and integration of these acquisitions may pose integration challenges, divert the attention of management, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, joint ventures, partnerships, alliances and platform technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform, enhance our technology, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future investments, strategic transactions, or acquisitions, and these transactions involve numerous risks that are not within our control. These risks include the following, among others: difficulty in assimilating the operations, systems, and personnel of the acquired business; difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues; difficulty integrating the acquired businesss accounting, management information and other administrative systems; inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business; inability to retain key customers, vendors and other business clients of the acquired business; inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our results of operations; regulatory changes that affect the value of the businesses we acquire or our plans for integration of those businesses, or that expose us to additional regulation or litigation in connection with the acquired businesses; significant post-acquisition investments which may lower the actual benefits realized through the acquisition; potential failure of the due diligence process to identify significant issues with product quality, legal, and financial liabilities among other things; and potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective. In particular, the acquisition of Bakkt Crypto presents risks to our business, including because: our ability to retain the legacy clients of Bakkt Crypto, and expand those relationships, is a key growth driver for us; we are in the process of replacing and/or augmenting many of our existing systems and relationships (e.g., agreements with crypto liquidity providers) with those historically used by Bakkt Crypto; we may need to be able to accommodate the significantly increased volume on our platform; the completion of the integration of the Bakkt Crypto businesswhich includes, among other things, merging legal entities, eliminating duplicative licenses, and adjusting the amount of regulatory capital associated therewithremains subject to regulatory approval, the delay of which extends the timeline for our recognition of the full benefits of the transaction; -36- Table of Contents we may have increased liability and/or regulatory risk from the list of additional crypto assets on our platform and from the pre-acquisition activities of Bakkt Crypto, even after we elected to delist certain of the crypto assets on the Bakkt Crypto platform; and the commercial relationship with Apex Clearing Corporation that is a part of the acquisition of Bakkt Crypto is a key growth driver for us, but that relationship may not produce the benefits that we envision. Our failure to address these risks, or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future investments, strategic transactions, or acquisitions, could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental expenses or the write-off of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition or results of operations, and the trading price of our Class A Common Stock could decline. For example, under the purchase agreement for the acquisition of Bakkt Crypto, we agreed to issue cash consideration of $55.0 million, up to $45 million in shares of our Class A Common Stock depending on Bakkt Crypto's achievement of certain profitability targets for the fourth quarter of 2022, and up to an additional $100.0 million in shares of our Class A Common Stock depending on Bakkt Crypto's achievement of certain financial targets through 2025. Through March 8, 2024, we have delivered approximately $9.1 million of shares of Class A Common Stock in respect of such obligations under such purchase agreement. We may require additional capital to support the growth of our business, and such capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through equity financings and payments received from our platform. We cannot be certain when or if our operations will generate sufficient cash to fully fund our ongoing operations or the growth of our business. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business, which may require us to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. For example, in March 2024 we consummated concurrent registered direct offerings whereby we issued and sold an aggregate of 37,679,541 shares of our Class A Common Stock, warrants to purchase an aggregate of 48,898,110 shares of Class A Common Stock at an exercise price of $1.02 per share, and pre-funded warrants to purchase an aggregate of 11,218,570 shares of Class A Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.0001 per share for aggregate net proceeds of $39.7 million. We also agreed to seek stockholder approval to, among other things, issue to our majority stockholder, ICE, in a subsequent closing of the registered direct offering with ICE (the ICE Offering) an additional 8,772,016 shares of Class A Common Stock and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 8,772,016 shares of Class A Common Stock at an exercise price of $1.02 per share for aggregate gross proceeds of $7.6 million. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest in future growth opportunities, which could harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations. If we incur debt, the debt holders would have rights senior to holders of existing securities to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our existing securities. Our decision to issue securities in the future will depend on numerous considerations, including factors beyond our control, thus we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of any future issuances of debt or equity securities. As a result, our stockholders bear the risk of future issuances of debt or equity securities reducing the value of our securities and diluting their interests. We may not complete the subsequent closing of the ICE Offering within the time frame we anticipate or at all, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results, operations and/or the market price of our Class A Common Stock. -37- Table of Contents In connection with the ICE Offering, we agreed to seek stockholder approval to, among other things, issue an additional 8,772,016 shares of Class A Common Stock and warrants to purchase 8,772,016 shares of Class A Common Stock, which could result in aggregate gross proceeds to us of approximately $7.6 million (the Subsequent ICE Closing). The consummation of the Subsequent ICE Closing is subject to certain closing conditions, a number of which are not within our control, including stockholder approval of the securities issuable under the Subsequent ICE Closing. Although we have entered into a voting support agreement with ICE, pursuant to which ICE agreed, among other things, to vote in favor of proposals seeking to obtain approval of the Subsequent ICE Closing, ICE voting in support alone does not assure the outcome and we do not control whether ICE complies with such voting support agreement. In addition, the stockholder proposals approving the transactions contemplated under the Subsequent ICE Closing will be subject to a preliminary proxy statement filing, which may be subject to review by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Such review, if it occurs, may be protracted and there are no assurances that we will be able to close the Subsequent ICE Closing in the timing that we currently expect or at all. If the Subsequent ICE Closing is delayed or not consummated at all, our ongoing business and financial results may be adversely affected. We might not be able to continue as a going concern. We intend to use our unrestricted cash and proceeds from maturity of available-for-sale debt securities to (i) fund our day-to-day operations, including, but not limited to funding our regulatory capital requirements, compensating balance arrangements and other similar commitments, each of which is subject to change, (ii) activate new crypto clients, (iii) maintain our product development efforts, and (iv) optimize our technology infrastructure and operational support. Substantial doubt was initially raised about our ability to continue as a going concern in connection with the filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ending September 30, 2023. In connection with the filing of subsequent amendments thereto, we disclosed that without additional equity financing we could not conclude that we could maintain our operations for a period of at least 12 months from the dates of such amendment filings. We subsequently closed on equity offerings that, when considered with managements other plans, resulted in management concluding that, notwithstanding the initial doubt that was raised, managements plans are currently expected to alleviate substantial doubt as of the date of this filing. However, that determination may change in the future. If we cannot continue as a viable entity, our stockholders will likely lose most or all of their investment in us. We have experienced and may continue to experience impacts to our business as a result of our partners and customers concern regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. For example, (i) one of our partners has closed out of all customer positions, (ii) we have received inquiries from partners and prospective partners about our financial position, (iii) certain of our surety bond providers have requested additional collateral, (iv) we were required to pledge as collateral the amounts that were previously required to be maintained in a concentration account for our purchasing card facility, and (v) certain of our liquidity providers have requested updated payment arrangements. There can be no assurance that we will not experience additional adverse impacts to our business, including additional or accelerated account closures, loss of future potential business, and additional demands for cash or collateral, which, individually or in the aggregate may further impair our business and exacerbate the risks related to our ability to continue as a going concern. Notwithstanding our conclusion that our plans alleviate substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, there is significant uncertainty associated with our expansion to new markets and the growth of our revenue base given the rapidly evolving environment associated with crypto assets. Accordingly, we cannot conclude it is probable we will be able to increase revenues substantially beyond levels that we have attained in the past in order to generate sustainable operating profit and sufficient cash flows to continue doing business without raising additional capital in the near future. If we are required to raise additional funding in the future to maintain our operations, we cannot be certain that additional capital, whether through selling additional equity or debt securities or obtaining a line of credit or other loan, will be available to us or, if available, will be on terms acceptable to us. If we issue additional securities to raise funds, these securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of our common stock, and our current -38- Table of Contents stockholders may experience dilution. For example, in our concurrent February 2024 registered direct offerings we agreed to issue up to an aggregate of 48,898,110 shares of our Class A Common Stock (or pre-funded warrants to purchase shares of Class A Common Stock in lieu thereof) and warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 48,898,110 shares of our Class A Common Stock. If we are unable to obtain funds when needed or on acceptable terms, we may be required to curtail our current platform expansion programs, cut operating costs, forego future development and other opportunities or even terminate our operations. In addition, even though as of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K we determined that managements plans alleviated the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, we may be unable to recover with investors, partners and customers due to the adverse reputational effects we experienced previously or may experience in the future. We hold our cash and cash equivalents that we use to meet our working capital and operating expense needs in deposit accounts that could be adversely affected if the financial institutions holding such funds fail. We hold our cash and cash equivalents that we use to meet our working capital and operating expense needs in deposit accounts at multiple financial institutions. The balances held in these accounts typically exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit insurance limit. If a financial institution in which we hold such funds fails or is subject to significant adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets, we could be subject to a risk of loss of all or a portion of such uninsured funds or be subject to a delay in accessing all or a portion of such uninsured funds. Any such loss or lack of, or delay in, access to these funds could adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to meet our ongoing working capital and operating expense obligations. We also maintain investment accounts with other financial institutions in which we hold our investments and, if access to these investments were to be impaired, we may not be able to open new operating accounts, sell investments or transfer funds from our investment accounts to new operating accounts on a timely basis sufficient to meet our operating expense obligations. In addition, if further liquidity and financial stability concerns arise with respect to banks and financial institutions, the ability of our clients or their customers to access existing cash, cash equivalents or investments or to access existing, or enter into new, banking arrangements or facilities, may be adversely impacted, which could in turn impact such parties ability to pay their obligations to us or to our clients, or to enter into new commercial arrangements with us. The loss of the services of our senior management could adversely affect our business. The experience of our senior management is a valuable asset to us. If we are unable to retain members of our core senior management team, we could experience uncertainty and significant delays or difficulty in the achievement of our development and strategic objectives and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely harmed. Our management team has significant experience, is responsible for many of our core competencies, and would be difficult to replace. For example, on March 18, 2024, we announced the resignation of our President and Chief Executive Officer, effective March 25, 2024, and appointment of a new President and Chief Executive Officer. Competition for senior executives in these businesses is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. Failure to retain talented senior leadership could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business will suffer if we fail to attract and retain highly skilled employees. Our future success will depend on our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel for all areas of our organization, particularly information technology and sales. Further, hiring qualified and experienced personnel in this specialized technology space is difficult due to the high level of competition and scarcity of experience. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we do and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training employees, which increases their value to competitors that may seek to recruit them. We may not be able to attract, develop and maintain the skilled workforce necessary to operate our business and labor expenses may increase as a result -39- Table of Contents of a shortage in the supply of qualified personnel, which would negatively impact our business. Further, if we suffer attrition and shortages with respect to certain of our customer service personnel, such as our call centers, our ability to maintain compliance with our service level commitments to clients may be impacted, resulting in financial penalties and, potentially, damage to or loss of those client relationships. Our revenue is impacted, to a significant extent, by the general economy. Our business and our clients businesses are sensitive to macroeconomic conditions. Economic factors such as interest rates, inflation, changes in monetary and related policies, market volatility (including as a result of geopolitical issues, such as the wars in Ukraine and the Middle East), consumer confidence, and unemployment rates are among the most significant factors that impact consumer spending behavior. Weak economic conditions, high interest rates, inflation or a significant deterioration in economic conditions reduce the amount of disposable income consumers have, which in turn reduces consumer spending and the willingness of consumers to accumulate and spend crypto and loyalty points or otherwise transact in such assets, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. In particular, the high levels of, and increases in, inflation currently experienced in the United States could negatively impact our business by increasing our costs and reducing consumer activities necessarily to our revenue generation. Our ability to generate subscription and service revenue and transaction revenue depends, in part, on customers continuing to access and utilize our platform. Our clients businesses may decrease or fail to increase as a result of factors outside of their control, such as the macroeconomic conditions referenced above, or business conditions affecting a particular client, industry vertical, or region. Weak economic conditions also could extend the length of our clients sales cycle and cause consumers to delay making (or not make) purchases. Some of our clients have experienced a decrease in sales, supply chain disruptions, inventory shortages, and other adverse effects. A decline in activity by consumers of our clients products and services for any reason may correspondingly result in lower revenue generated by our platform. If we experience rapid growth, it may place significant demands on our operational, administrative and financial resources and it may be difficult to sustain such growth. We have a relatively limited operating history even at our current scale and our projected growth in future periods exposes us to increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties. If we are unable to appropriately scale our operations to support such growth, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. If we experience rapid growth, we could face significant challenges in: maintaining and developing relationships with existing and new clients securing funding to maintain our operations and future growth; maintaining adequate financial, business and risk controls; implementing new or updated information and financial risk