Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. How We Are Different The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, rapidly changing and highly innovative. We believe that we are well-positioned given our unique ability to provide all of our capabilities under one platform, combined with our institutional-grade, secure and licensed infrastructure. We believe this provides a competitive differentiation that would be difficult to replicate. Although we do not believe that we have any single direct competitor for the full range of products we provide through our platform, we compete with a wide range of parties, including crypto exchanges, peer-to-peer payment systems, and loyalty program redemption solutions for similar services. This market is growing and changing rapidly, so we expect that we will continue to see increased competition with new entrants into the space or existing competitors expanding their product offerings. We believe that our business model provides us with significant competitive advantages, including: Multi-faceted approach to security and compliance. We enable responsible and secure access to crypto for our clients. Our compliance measures, controls and rigorous risk management practices are at the core of how we -9- Table of Content s operate. Our infrastructure provides multiple layers of protection and provides heightened security and compliance. This includes a separate and independent board for Bakkt Trust and the separation of custody and exchange functions to minimize potential conflicts of interest. As a public company, were comprehensively regulated. We have taken the time and resources to obtain a BitLicense from the New York Department of Financial Services ("NYDFS"), a limited-purpose trust charter (also from NYDFS), state money trasmitter licenses, insurance policies, and to implement robust policies and programs that govern crypto-related activity, such as a cyber security program, information security policy, global anti-money laundering (AML) policy, and Bank Secrecy Act (BSA)/Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the U.S. Department of the Treasury program. These measures are all designed to protect our clients and shareholders. Client-led strategy. We seek to leverage our existing and new client relationships with leading brands to add consumer users to our platform. By partnering with these brands and their existing customer bases, we believe consumers are more likely to embrace the new asset classes offered on our platform. We also believe that, as a relatively new brand, this approach will allow us to scale users and revenue more quickly. Institutional-grade platform. Our platform architecture is engineered to natively support crypto across a wide range of classes, with scalability and strong regulatory and compliance controls. Our platform includes a custody platform that we designed and built in partnership with our majority investor, ICE. Our platform was designed with these principles in mind to provide safe, reliable infrastructure for consumers in their everyday use. Trusted and scalable capabilities. Our approach, built to scale with technology, privacy, security and compliance at the core, is informed by our team's decades of collective experience. Our platform moves a significant amount of volume across asset classes every day, and we handle customer service for many of the largest financial institutions in the country. We believe these pillars, when applied to the rapidly evolving crypto space, provide confidence to consumers, merchants, institutions and loyalty clients that participate in our ecosystem. Sales and Marketing B2B2C Model . Our go-to-market strategy is business-to-business-to-consumer, or B2B2C, where we acquire customers primarily via client relationships. We believe our focused approach on building scalable partnerships will drive strong growth in end users. We also believe this approach is more efficient and scalable than a direct-to-consumer strategy, and we have seen early evidence that this belief is warranted. Our goal is to provide our clients with opportunities to leverage Bakkts capabilities through their existing customer digital experiences. We have built an extensive vendor network across various industries including financial services, travel and entertainment, retail and platform companies. While we have made significant headway building partnerships in these industries, there remain significant untapped growth opportunities in each area. For example, traditional financial institutions are facing increased competition from a broader group of financial technology entrants (fintechs). We expect that the pressure on them to provide innovative products and increased competition will continue to grow. Our ability to stand up capabilities within client ecosystems makes our platform an attractive solution for such financial institutions seeking an intuitive, tightly-integrated, low risk solution to offer crypto and loyalty services. Value of Partnerships. We believe our growing network of clients provides potential for increased scale and substantiates the viability of our business plan. As our partnerships go live, we will deploy marketing resources to drive consumer adoption and usage of our platform. The successful activation and implementation of these partnerships are expected to be a significant driver for our transaction growth and associated revenue, including crypto trading revenue. We believe we will benefit from a positive network effect, where the value of our network will generally increase as we add new clients, vendors, customers and crypto to our platform. -10- Table of Content s Customer Care Our customer service channels are at the core of our offerings to clients, providing seamless and easy-to-leverage support for the wide array of cryptoasset transactions on our platform. We have invested heavily in customer support to provide our clients and their customers with the best possible experience. Leveraging our staff of customer service representatives, we provide 24x7 support for our clients. Our customer service agents undergo a rigorous training program and are continually monitored and trained as new capabilities are added to the platform. New clients are able to leverage our deep expertise in customer support as they roll out new offerings, like crypto, to their consumer bases. Technology Our core platforms and infrastructure provide loyalty integrations, travel redemption, crypto buy/sell trading, and crypto custody. Additionally, our platform supports "know your customer" ("KYC"), AML, and other anti-fraud measures to combat financial crime. Our modern embedded web experiences and agile API-enabled platform allow us to partner and easily integrate with clients, including through the following: Our loyalty redemption service is provided as SaaS and powers rewards redemption for leading loyalty programs. The service is built upon highly scalable proprietary technology and supports integration with dozens of suppliers and millions of items, both through a mobile-first responsive web app or integrated into clients apps or sites. Our crypto products operate in an institutional-grade cryptocurrency custody and trading platform, primarily comprised of our custody platform, Bakkt Trust, and our pricing execution engine. The custody platform is purpose-built to safeguard crypto , with multi-signature wallet policies, hardware security modules and offline storage of private key material, blockchain surveillance and AML/KYC compliance integrated into the core of the platform. Our pricing execution engine is an automated trading system that facilitates the purchase and sale of cryptocurrencies by customers and is built to scale on demand leveraging the cloud. Cybersecurity Each of our products is architected, deployed, and managed through controls designed to protect our customers' confidential information and manage in line with industry best practices and applicable law. We maintain a comprehensive cyber security program, managed by a dedicated team of security professionals, leveraging multiple layers of defenses to protect consumer data and crypto wallets, including cryptocurrency that is kept in custody. For example, we operate a combination of administrative, technical, and physical controls. Some of these controls include the use of biometrics, hardware security modules, advanced cryptographic algorithms, dedicated security monitoring, separation of duties and other controls to protect and restrict unauthorized movement of crypto assets to and from the custody operations conducted by Bakkt Trust. Additionally, we regularly utilize independent and reputable external parties to assess and provide added assurance that our products are appropriately secured and resilient against modern cyber threats. We currently maintain independent SSAE-18 SOC 1 and SOC 2 attestation reports for our crypto and loyalty platform. We also maintain controls aligned to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard ("PCI-DSS") for in-scope systems where cardholder data is stored or processed. We comply with NYDFS cybersecurity requirements which imposes strict rules related to establishing a detailed cybersecurity plan, enacting a comprehensive cybersecurity policy, and maintaining an ongoing reporting system for cybersecurity events. Finally, we maintain a privacy program designed to meet applicable privacy laws or regulations. This includes the capability to effectively respond to consumer data subject requests or regulatory requests. Regulation Federal and state laws and regulations apply to many key aspects of our business. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with these requirements may result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss -11- Table of Content s of approved status, regulatory or governmental investigations, administrative enforcement actions, sanctions, civil and criminal liability, private litigation, reputational harm, or constraints on our ability to continue to operate. We operate in a regulatory environment that is evolving rapidly and increasing in scope. As such, it is possible that current or future laws or regulations could be enacted, interpreted or applied in a manner that would prohibit, alter, or impair our existing or planned products and services, or that could require costly, time-consuming, or otherwise burdensome compliance measures. Further, additional laws and regulations may apply to our businesses as we expand outside of the United States in the future. For more information, please see our risk factors described in Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Regulation, Taxation and Laws. Regulation of Our Payments Business. Bakkt Marketplace, LLC (Bakkt Marketplace), our subsidiary, maintains a money transmitter license in each jurisdiction in which we operate that requires such a license for our activities. In all other jurisdictions where Bakkt Marketplace operates, we have established with the applicable licensing body that a money transmitter license is not required at this time. We will comply with new license requirements as they arise. Bakkt Marketplace is also registered as a "Money Services Business" with the U.S. Department of Treasurys Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). These licenses and registrations subject us to, among other things, record-keeping requirements, reporting requirements, bonding requirements, limitations on the investment of customer funds, and examination by state and federal regulatory agencies. These licensing laws also address matters such as change in control, and regulatory approval of controlling shareholders, directors, and senior management of the licensed entity. In connection with our payments business and card product, we are subject to compliance with certain industry rules, including those promulgated by the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA), as well as card network rules and guidelines. Additional new products and services that we offer may impose additional obligations on us to comply with NACHA and card network obligations related to preventing fraud and security breaches. Regulation of Our Virtual Currency Business. We provide cryptocurrency custody services through Bakkt Trust, a limited purpose trust company that is chartered under the New York Banking Law and subject to the supervision and oversight of the NYDFS. Consequently, we must comply with laws, rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to the New York Banking Law with respect to the cryptocurrency custody services we provide through Bakkt Trust, including those related to capitalization, corporate governance, anti-money laundering, disclosure, reporting and examination, as well as supervisory guidance and requirements. Bakkt Trust is also subject to FinCEN requirements as a financial institution. We are subject in certain jurisdictions to licensing and regulatory requirements as a result of offering our clients the ability to aggregate, buy, sell, convert, spend and send virtual currency through our platform. Consequently, we must comply with laws, rules and regulations promulgated by federal or state regulators in those jurisdictions in order to provide our services, including requirements related to capitalization, consumer protection, anti-money laundering, disclosure, reporting and examination, as well as supervisory guidance and requirements. Bakkt Marketplace also has a virtual currency license (BitLicense) from the NYDFS, which subjects it to NYDFS's oversight with respect to business activities conducted in New York State and with New York residents. The laws and regulations applicable to crypto are rapidly evolving and subject to interpretation and change. For instance, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) has indicated that it considers certain cryptocurrencies to possibly constitute securities. The SEC has yet to issue any formal regulation on this point, though it has put forth some guidance on overarching frameworks and relevant factors to consider in this analysis. Therefore, our crypto services offered through our platform or our limited purpose trust company may become subject to regulation by other authorities and/or may subject us to additional requirements. Broker-Dealer Regulation. The Exchange Act requires that any person who is a broker or a dealer and effects or induces securities transactions must register with the SEC. A broker is defined as any person engaged in the business of effecting transactions in securities for the account of others, while a dealer is defined as any person engaged in the business of buying and selling securities for such persons own account, in each case, subject to exceptions. In order to be able to act as a broker and advise clients interested in transactions that involve securities, we acquired a registered broker-dealer, Bumped. This acquisition is currently under review by FINRA and remains subject to receiving FINRAs approval. -12- Table of Content s Broker-dealers are subject to regulation, examination, investigation, and disciplinary action by the SEC, FINRA, and state securities regulators, as well as other governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations with which they are registered or licensed or of which they are a member. Bumped is registered as a broker-dealer in 52 U.S. states and territories. The regulation of broker-dealers covers all aspects of the broker-dealer business and operations, including, depending the scope of its activities, among other things, sales and trading practices and reporting requirements, client onboarding, advertising and marketing, publication or distribution of research, margin lending, uses and safekeeping of clients funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping, reporting, fee arrangements, disclosures to clients, suitability, acting in clients best interests when making recommendations to retail customers, customer privacy, data protection, information security and cybersecurity, the safeguarding of customer information, the sharing of customer information, best execution of customer orders, public offerings, customer qualifications for margin and options transactions, registration of personnel, business continuity planning, transactions with affiliates, conflicts, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Broker-dealers are also subject to anti-money laundering rules and requirements issued by FinCEN under the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act. Privacy and Information Cybersecurity Regulations. Aspects of our operations or business are subject to laws and regulation in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions relating to privacy, data protection and cybersecurity. Accordingly, we publish our privacy policies and terms of service, which describe our practices concerning the use, protection, transmission, and disclosure of information. As our business continues to expand in the United States and potentially beyond, and as laws and regulations continue to be passed and their interpretations continue to evolve in numerous jurisdictions, additional laws and regulations may become relevant to us. Regulatory authorities around the world are considering numerous legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy, data protection and cybersecurity. In addition, the interpretation and application of these laws and regulations in the United States and elsewhere are often uncertain and in a state of flux. As our business continues to develop and expand, we continue to monitor the additional rules and regulations that may become relevant. For additional information regarding these laws and regulations and related risks, please see Risk Factors Risks Related to Regulation, Taxation, and Laws Complying with evolving laws and requirements relating to privacy, and other data related laws and requirements may be expensive and force us to make changes to our business, and failure to comply with such laws and requirements could result in substantial harm to our business. Consumer Protection Regulation. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and other federal and state regulatory agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission, broadly regulate financial products, enforce consumer protection laws applicable to credit, deposit, prepaid products, and payments, and other similar products. Such agencies have broad consumer protection mandates, and they promulgate, interpret, and enforce laws, rules and regulations, including with respect to unfair, deceptive, and abusive acts and practices that may impact or apply to our business. For example, under federal and state financial privacy laws and regulations, we must provide notice to consumers of our policies on sharing non-public information with third parties, among other requirements. In addition, under the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, we are required to disclose the terms of, and any fees applicable to, our electronic fund transfer services to consumers prior to their use of the service, among other requirements. We are further required to extend error resolution and limited liability protections to customers who use our card product. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Regulation. We are subject to AML laws and regulations in the United States, including the BSA, as amended, and its implemented regulations enforced by FinCEN, as well as laws designed to prevent the use of the financial systems to facilitate terrorist activities. We have implemented a comprehensive AML compliance program designed to prevent our payments network and custody services from being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illicit activity. Our program is also designed to prevent our network and other services from being used to facilitate business in countries, or with persons or entities, included on designated lists promulgated by OFAC and equivalent authorities in other countries. Our AML compliance program is comprised of policies, procedures, reporting protocols, including reporting requirements for suspicious transactions, and internal controls, including the designation of a compliance officer, training for employees, and a regular independent review of the -13- Table of Content s program. It is designed to address applicable legal and regulatory requirements and to assist in managing risk associated with money laundering and terrorist financing. Indirect Regulatory Requirements. We maintain relationships with certain clients, including banks and other financial institutions in the United States, that are regulated by state, local and federal agencies. Because of these relationships, we may be subject to indirect regulation or examination by these institutions' regulators. We generally seek to account for these types of indirect regulatory requirements in our commercial agreements. We also have clients that are investments advisors. The SEC has recently proposed changes to its investment adviser custody rule, which could affect the terms upon which we can offer custody services to those clients. Escheatment and Unclaimed Property Regulations. There is regulatory uncertainty regarding how states and jurisdictions treat virtual currencies and other crypto assets under unclaimed property laws and regulations. Unclaimed property laws, as may be applicable, require us to report and to remit certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time. We have policies and procedures designed to help us comply with these laws. Intellectual Property The protection of our intellectual property and all corresponding rights throughout the world, including our trademarks, service marks, trade dress, logos, trade names, domain names, goodwill, patents, copyrights, works of authorship (whether or not copyrightable), software and trade secrets, know-how, and proprietary and other confidential information, together with all applications, registrations, renewals, extensions, improvements and counterparts in connection with any of the foregoing, is important to the success of our business. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by filing applications in various patent, trademark and other government offices, and relying on applicable laws and regulations in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We have sought to register our core brands as domain names and as trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and a large number of other jurisdictions. We also have in place an active program to continue to secure, police and enforce trademarks, service marks, trade dress, logos, trade names, and domain names that correspond to our brands in markets of interest. We have filed patent applications in the U.S. and plan to extend them into international jurisdictions covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology and new innovations. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights where appropriate when offering or procuring products and services. We have routinely entered into confidentiality and invention disclosure and assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and non-disclosure agreements with external parties with whom we conduct business to control access to, and use and disclosure of, our proprietary information. Human Capital Our employees are essential in propelling our success. We hold our employees to high standards, both in work product and ethics, and aim to create a culture of accountability and results. Our performance expectations and attributes empower our company. They reflect how we expect employees to operate, collaborate and make decisions. At Bakkt, we strive to challenge the status quo with new ideas, have open and honest communications, appreciate our diversity of thought, take ownership and accountability for delivering valuable results and act with integrity, respect and reliability. In a complex industry, it is critical for employees to act ethically. We provide regular trainings to help our employees understand and comply with the many regulations in our industry and with our company policies. We expect managers to set the tone for their teams and to lead by example, including by embracing ethical behavior and sharing its importance with their team. Managers are expected to help their teams understand our company policies and encourage them to report any violations of policy or law. As a company, we help ensure Bakkts non-retaliation policy is strictly followed. At Bakkt, we understand that our success is built by operating as a unified company one culture and team across the crypto landscape, with a focus on growth and innovation. We are committed to diversity throughout our company. It is -14- Table of Content s our policy that employees are treated, and treat each other, with fairness, respect and dignity. We embrace our employees differences, while valuing a diverse, inclusive and safe workplace. We aim to promote diversity and inclusion through a number of employee engagement events including internal and external speaker sessions to foster learning on relevant and important topics. Our employees come from a wide variety of backgrounds to work toward a common vision for the Company. Our CEO brings our teams together in bi-weekly all hands calls and sends weekly email updates for transparency regarding our company strategy and goals. We strive to hold employees accountable for their work performance while providing incentives for excellence in their contributions to the Company. We encourage open collaboration to put out the best ideas and solutions to better adapt to changing markets and other challenges Bakkt faces. Our commitment to our employees is reflected in our ability to attract high-caliber talent, continuously innovate, and provide exceptional service and solutions to our clients. As of December 31, 2022, we had a total of 1,037 employees, all of whom were full-time employees, and all of whom are located in the United States. We also engage temporary employees and consultants as needed to support our operations. Collectively, approximately 18% of our workforce is dedicated to engineering, design, or product roles. Our core locations are Alpharetta, GA, Scottsdale, AZ, New York City, NY and San Francisco, CA. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. We believe our positive culture strengthens our company and enables our business success. COVID-19 Impacts In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak a global pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected global economic activity and, in 2020, contributed to significant declines and volatility in financial markets. During the year ended December 31, 2022, our business operations continued to recover from the impacts of the pandemic, and revenue from loyalty and travel business also continued to recover. Available Information Our website is http://www.bakkt.com, and our investor relations website is located at https://investors.bakkt.com, where we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We use our investor relations website to post important information for investors, including news releases, analyst presentations, and supplemental financial information, and as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor our investor relations website, in addition to following press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes, before making a decision to invest in our securities. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. -15- Table of Content s Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that you should consider before investing in our securities. These risks are described more fully below and include, but are not limited to, risks relating to the following: Risks Related to Our Business, Finances and Operations Our business model is newly developed and may encounter additional risks and challenges as it grows. Our platform is still in the early stages of its release and is largely untested. Our ability to add additional functionalities and cryptoassets to our platform may adversely affect future growth. We have limited operating history and a history of operating losses. If we are unable to attract, retain or grow our relationships with our existing clients, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Some of our current and prospective clients require the approval of their own regulators in order to deploy our solutions, especially our crypto solutions, and if they are unable to obtain those approvals on a timely basis, or at all, our results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. A large percentage of our revenue is concentrated with a small number of clients; the loss of any such client would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Moreover, because of our B2B2C go-to-market model, the loss of any client regardless of the reason increases the risk that the customers that originally emanated from that client will transition to another provider or stop doing business with us, which would harm our business. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future investments, strategic transactions, or acquisitions including the pending acquisition of Apex Crypto LLC and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. Risks Related to Crypto Disruptions in the crypto market subject us to additional risks, including the risk that banks may not provide banking services to us. There may be a general perception among regulators and others that crypto is used to facilitate illegal activity such as fraud, money laundering, tax evasion and ransomware scams. We rely on crypto custodial solutions and related technology, which may experience theft, employee or vendor sabotage, security and cybersecurity risks, system failures and other operational issues which could damage our reputation and brand. Our failure to safeguard and manage our customers crypto could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Crypto does not have extensive historical precedent and distributed ledger technology continues to rapidly evolve. We may encounter technical issues in connection with the integration of supported cryptoassets and changes and upgrades to their underlying networks, which could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Regulation, Taxation and Laws We are subject to extensive government regulation, oversight, licensure and appraisals and our failure to comply could materially harm our business. The regulatory regime governing blockchain technologies and crypto is uncertain, and new regulations or policies may alter or significantly adversely affect our business practices with respect to crypto. -16- Table of Content s A cryptoassets status as a security in any relevant jurisdiction is subject to a high degree of uncertainty, and if cryptoassets on our platform are later determined to be securities, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny, investigations, fines, and other penalties, which may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are subject to significant litigation risk and risk of regulatory liability and penalties. Any current or future litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. Risks Related to Information Technology and Data Actual or perceived cyberattacks, security incidents, or breaches could result in serious harm to our reputation, business and financial condition. Risks Related to Risk Management and Financial Reporting If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we may be unable to produce timely and accurate financial statements, which could have a material effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Securities The trading market for our securities has in the past been and could in the future be impacted by market volatility. Stock run-ups, divergences in valuation ratios relative to those seen during traditional markets, high short interest or short squeezes, and strong and atypical retail investor interest in the markets may impact the demand for our securities. Risks Related to Our Business, Finances and Operations Our business model is newly developed and may encounter additional risks and challenges as it grows. Our vision is that our clients will utilize our platform as the go-to solution enabling customers to transact in crypto and loyalty points. Most of the assets that we have incorporated and intend to incorporate into our platform in the future are already being handled by incumbent providers. There can be no assurance that our platform will gain the acceptance of clients or customers or generate the anticipated synergies. Because some of the cryptoassets that are anticipated to be available on our platform have not previously been available for the uses our platform is intended to cover, it is difficult to predict the preferences and requirements of clients or customers, and our platform, design and technology may not appeal to such clients or customers, or may be incompatible with new or emerging forms of crypto or related technologies. Failure to achieve acceptance would impede our ability to develop and sustain a commercial business. We primarily generate revenue when customers transact in crypto and loyalty points on our platform. Our success depends on bringing on clients and on the transaction volume from these customers. If we are not able to bring new clients onto the platform, many of whom will pay us subscription fees for our platform services, our revenue and business concern could be negatively impacted. Additionally, much of our future revenue depends on transaction fees earned from customers transacting in crypto and loyalty points and the margin we charge in connection with those transactions. If we are not able to continue to grow our base of clients, we will not be able to continue to grow our customer base, our revenues or our business, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and may cause us to be unable to continue as a going concern. The attractiveness of our platform depends upon, among other things: the number and variety of assets and other capabilities in which customers can transact through our platform; our reputation, as well as clients and customers experience and satisfaction with, and trust and perception of, our platform; technological innovation; regulatory compliance and data security; and -17- Table of Content s services and products offered by competitors. Moreover, clients may choose to contract with other providers of services that are competitive with ours. If we fail to retain existing clients, attract new clients, or continually expand usage and transaction volume on our platform, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be materially and adversely affected. We will have both increased financial and reputational risks if there is a failure to launch one or more features, or if the launch of a new feature is unsuccessful. Also, there can be no assurance that we will receive support from clients to launch features as planned or that we will operate as anticipated. We also require regulatory approvals, including, for example, to add new cryptoassets, products, and functionalities to our platform, and may require additional licenses and/or consultation with or approval of regulators to add, modify or discontinue certain aspects of our business model, which could lead to delays or other complexities in effectuating such changes and have a material adverse effect on our business and plan of operations. Further, our business model entails numerous risks, including risks relating to our ability to: manage the complexity of our business model to stay current with the industry and new technologies; successfully enter new categories, markets and jurisdictions in which we may have limited or no prior experience; integrate into multiple distributed ledger technologies as they currently exist and as they evolve; successfully develop and integrate products, systems and personnel into our business operations; obtain and maintain required licenses and regulatory approvals for our business; and respond to, and comply with the evolving regulatory landscape for crypto and crypto platforms. Our platform is in its early stages of release, will be further developed, and is largely untested. Any failure by us to successfully execute on the development of our platform would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our platform is in the early stages of release and will be further refined and developed, and certain areas of our platform are still under development and largely untested on a commercial scale. We are working to expand our service offerings, including, for example offering crypto rewards. Our platform will require additional development in order to add all of the additional functionalities and features planned by our management and activate our service offerings. There can be no assurance that the additional functionalities and features currently planned for our platform will be successfully developed in a timely fashion or at all. The addition of functionalities to our platform may require regulatory approvals, may increase our regulatory obligations and the degree of regulatory scrutiny we face, and may make regulatory compliance more complex and burdensome. We will have both increased financial and reputational risks if there is a failure to launch one or more functionalities, or if the launch of a new functionality is unsuccessful. Also, there can be no assurance that we will receive the necessary regulatory approvals or support from clients to launch features as planned or that we will operate as anticipated. Any problems that we encounter with the development or operation of our platform, including technical, legal and regulatory problems, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a limited operating history and a history of operating losses, which make it difficult to forecast our future results of operations. Further, we expect to reduce our operating expenses in the foreseeable future, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability to absorb our targeted expense base. We were founded in 2018 and have experienced net losses in the periods from inception through December 31, 2022. For example, our revenue was $54.6 million, $11.5 million and $28.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2022 and the periods of October 15, 2021 through December 31, 2021 (Successor) and January 1, 2021 through October 14, 2021 (Predecessor), respectively, and we generated net losses of $1,989.9 million, $164.8 million, and $139.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2022 and the periods of October 15, 2021 through December 31, 2021 (Successor) and January 1, 2021 through October 14, 2021 (Predecessor), respectively. You should not rely on the revenue growth of any -18- Table of Content s prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to accurately forecast our future results of operations is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. Our historical revenue was achieved largely as the result of our white-labeled loyalty redemption product, which reflects little revenue from the launch of our broader crypto platform, and therefore should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Because of our limited operating history and the fact that our current and historical revenue was largely not derived from our currently planned business model, our future revenue growth is difficult to predict. Even if we experience strong revenue growth, in future periods our revenue or revenue growth could decline for a number of reasons, including slowing demand for our platform, increased competition, changes to technology, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, or our failure, for any reason, to take advantage of growth opportunities. We have also encountered, and will continue to encounter, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks and uncertainties described below. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties and our future revenue growth are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations, and our business could suffer. After increasing our operating costs and expenses in 2022 to complete our product road map and build public company infrastructure, we expect to reduce our operating expenses in the foreseeable future. In particular, we intend to continue to invest significant resources to further develop our platform. We have incurred increased general and administrative expenses associated with our growth, including legal and accounting expenses and costs related to internal systems and operating as a public company. We may not be able to achieve the operating expense reductions we are targeting to align with our revenue growth assumptions. Our efforts to operate our business may be costlier than we expect, or our revenue growth rate may be slower than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our operating expenses resulting from these investments. If we are unable to achieve the revenue growth that we expect from these investments, reduce our operating expenses, or achieve profitability, it would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the value of our business and our securities may significantly decrease. Substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions that occur during that quarter, which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant fluctuations in our operating results. Our quarterly results, including revenue, expenses, consumer metrics and other key metrics, are derived from transactions that occur during that quarter. Accordingly, our quarterly results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control. It is difficult for us to forecast accurately the level or source of our revenues, earnings and expenses, and the results for any one quarter are not necessarily an indication of future performance or expenses. Moreover, because of these fluctuations, our quarterly results may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. If our revenue, expenses, or key metrics in future quarters fall short of the expectations of our investors and financial analysts, the price of our securities could be adversely affected. Other factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly results include: our ability to attract and retain clients and customers; transaction volume and mix; rates of repeat transaction and fluctuations in usage of our platform, including seasonality; the amount and timing of our expenses related to acquiring clients and customers and the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; changes to our relationships with our clients; general economic, industry and market conditions; competitive dynamics in the industry in which we operate; -19- Table of Content s the amount and timing of stock-based compensation expenses; network outages, cyberattacks, or other actual or perceived security incidents or breaches or data privacy violations; changes in laws and regulations that impact our business; the cost and outcomes of existing or potential claims or litigation; and the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses and potential future charges for impairment of goodwill from acquired technologies or businesses. If we are unable to attract, retain or grow our relationships with our existing clients, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, sales efforts to large clients involve risks that may not be present or that are present to a lesser extent with respect to sales to smaller organizations. For our platform to be successful, we must continue our existing partnerships, and successfully develop new, partnerships with clients. Our ability to retain and grow our relationships with our clients depends on the willingness of those clients to establish a commercial relationship with us. Moreover, our growth plan includes marketing expense to incentivize clients with whom we develop partnerships to market our platform to their customers, which we expect would accelerate customer adoption of our platform and lower our overall customer acquisition cost. If clients with whom we develop partnerships fail to market or do not effectively market our platform to their customers, or customers fail to adopt our platform through these marketing efforts in such numbers as we have projected, our customer acquisition costs may increase and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Sales to large clients involve risks that may not be present or that are present to a lesser extent with sales to smaller organizations, such as longer sales cycles, more complex requirements and substantial upfront sales costs. For example, large clients may require considerable time to evaluate and test our platform prior to making a decision, or may request pricing models that may decrease our potential margins. Several factors influence the length and variability of our sales cycle, including the need to educate potential clients about the uses and benefits of our platform, the discretionary nature of purchasing and budget cycles, and the competitive nature of evaluation and purchasing approval processes. In order for our sales efforts to large organizations to be successful, we often must be able to engage with senior officers of the organization. As a result, the length of our sales cycle, from identification of the opportunity to deal closure, may vary significantly for each clients, with sales to large enterprises typically taking longer to complete. If we fail to effectively manage the risks associated with sales cycles and sales to large clients, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Moreover, when we execute an agreement with a client, we are still dependent on that client to deploy our platform. Larger clients in particular often delay deployment for a lengthy period of time after executing an agreement. Even when clients begin their integration into our platform, they do so on a limited basis while frequently requiring that we provide implementation services, which may include customization and controls that limit the functionality of our platform, and negotiate pricing discounts, which increases our upfront investment in the sales effort with no guarantee that sales to these clients will justify our upfront investment, which can be substantial. If a client delays deployment for lengthy periods of time, our consumer and revenue growth may not achieve expectations and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our agreements with our clients have terms that range from approximately three to five years, and in some cases, our existing clients can generally terminate these agreements without cause upon 30 to 90 days prior written notice. In addition, many of those agreements also provide for the right of the client to terminate the agreement, or for us to pay financial penalties, in the event that we breach certain service level agreements with respect to the operation of our platform. The termination of one or more of our agreements with a client would result in a reduction in a loss of transacting accounts, transaction volume and revenue attributable to customers generated from that client relationship, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. -20- Table of Content s Additionally, certain of our partnerships have not yet been memorialized in definitive written agreements, or certain terms of the written agreements relating to such partnerships remain subject to further discussion and refinement before they can be implemented. Our ability to realize the intended benefits of these partnerships will depend on our ability to finalize such agreements, and to do so on terms sufficiently favorable to us. While we continue to negotiate partnership terms, we may be unable to agree to terms with such clients on commercially advantageous terms or at all, which may adversely affect our business and prospects. Some of our current and prospective clients require the approval of their own regulators in order to deploy our solutions, especially our crypto solutions, and if they are unable to obtain those approvals on a timely basis, or at all, our results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Some of our current and prospective clients themselves are regulated entities that may be restricted from engaging with us. For instance, several banks to whom we seek to provide our crypto solutions are regulated by the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and/or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Pursuant to statements made by these regulators in the last several months, banks they regulate are required to consult with, and potentially obtain the approval of, their relevant regulator before engaging in crypto-related activities. If these banks, or other current or prospective clients that are regulated entities, are unable to obtain the approval of their regulators, or the timing of such approvals is delayed, that failure or delay would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and future prospects. We face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the industries in which we operate. The crypto and loyalty and rewards industries are highly competitive, rapidly changing, highly innovative, and increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny and oversight. Although we do not believe that we have any single direct competitor for the full range of products we provide through our platform, we compete against a wide range of businesses in the crypto and loyalty industries generally, including those that are larger than us, have greater name recognition, larger pools of deployable capital, longer operating histories, or a dominant or more secure position, or offer other products and services to customers that we do not offer, as well as smaller or younger companies that may be more agile in responding quickly to regulatory and technological changes. Many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting consumer needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Competition also may intensify as businesses enter into business combinations and partnerships, and established companies in other segments expand to become competitive with different aspects of our business. We compete primarily on the basis of the following: ability to attract, retain and engage clients (and in turn, customers) on our platform; ability to demonstrate to clients that they may achieve incremental revenue and attract new customers by using and offering our services to their customers; confidence in the safety, security, privacy and control of customer information on our platform; ability to develop products and services across multiple commerce channels, including crypto and loyalty points; and system reliability, regulatory compliance and data security. We partner with many businesses and consider the ability to continue establishing these partnerships important to our business. Competition for relationships with these clients is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to establish, grow, or maintain these client relationships. Some of our current and potential competitors have larger customer bases, broader geographic scope, volume, scale, resources and market share than we do, which may provide them significant competitive advantages. Some competitors may also be subject to less burdensome licensing, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing and other -21- Table of Content s regulatory requirements. They may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products and services, and offer lower prices or more effectively offer their own innovative programs, products and services. We also compete against a large number of decentralized and noncustodial platforms. On these platforms, customers can interact directly with a market-making smart contract or on-chain trading mechanism to exchange one type of crypto for another without any centralized intermediary. These platforms are typically not as easy to use as our platform, and some lack the speed and liquidity of centralized platforms, but various innovative models and incentives have been designed to bridge the gap. In addition, such platforms have low startup and entry costs as market entrants often remain unregulated and have minimal operating and regulatory costs. If the demand for decentralized platforms grows and we are unable to compete with these decentralized and noncustodial platforms, our business may be adversely affected. If we are not able to differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors, drive value for our clients and customers, or effectively and efficiently align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively in the market. If our platform does not meet our service level commitments, our revenue and reputation may be negatively impacted. We typically commit, through service level agreements or otherwise, to maintaining a minimum service levels with respect to our platforms functionality, availability and response time. If we are unable to meet these commitments, we may be obligated to provide clients with remedies set forth below. A failure to meet service level commitments, even for a relatively short duration, could cause us to be contractually obligated to issue credits or refunds to a large number of affected clients and customers, or could result in the dissatisfaction or loss of clients and customers. Affected participants could also choose to pursue other legal remedies that may be available to them. In addition, we rely on public cloud providers, such as Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud, and any availability interruption in the public cloud could result in us not meeting our service-level commitments. In some cases, we may not have a contractual right with our public cloud providers that compensates us for any losses due to availability interruptions in the public cloud. Any of the above circumstances or events may impact our revenues, harm our reputation, impair our ability to develop our platform and grow our base of clients and customers, subject us to financial penalties and liabilities under our service level agreements and otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to successfully transition certain services provided to us by ICE in the past, our business could be harmed. We have historically relied on ICE, a significant stockholder, to provide services with respect to certain aspects of our business, including the following: market credibility, regulatory and industry expertise and infrastructure support critical infrastructure for custody of our crypto and institutional-grade services to support our custody arrangements, which leverage ICEs robust platform of security protocols. Pursuant to a transition services agreement (the Transition Services Agreement) we signed with ICE on November 10, 2021, we have agreed to transition certain services, including technology and data center services, away from ICE that had previously been provided under an intercompany services agreement (ISA). There can be no assurance that we will be able to timely, efficiently or economically develop these capacities or provide these services without ICE, or that we will be able to procure alternative services from third parties. We may also be unable to provide the services at the level that they have historically been provided by ICE, or at all. -22- Table of Content s In the interim, because we rely on ICE to provide support services and to facilitate certain of our business activities, we may face increased operational risk. Over time, we anticipate that ICE may sell down its ownership interest in us, thereby reducing the alignment of interests between us and ICE. With or without this sell down, ICE may be subject to financial, legal, regulatory and labor issues, cyberattacks, security incidents, privacy breaches, service terminations, disruptions or interruptions, or other problems, which may impose additional costs or requirements on us or prevent ICE from providing services to us or our customers on our behalf, which could harm our business. In addition, ICE may disagree with our interpretation of contract terms or applicable laws and regulations, fail or refuse to process transactions or provide other services adequately, take actions that degrade the functionality of our services, impose additional costs or requirements on us or our customers, or give preferential treatment to competitive services. As a result, we may be subject to business disruptions, losses related to costs to remediate any deficiencies, consumer dissatisfaction, reputational damage, legal or regulatory proceedings, or other adverse consequences, any of which could harm our business. We face operational, legal and other risks related to our reliance on third party vendors, over which we have no control. We face operational risk because we rely on third party vendors to provide us with financial, technology and other services and to facilitate certain of our business activities, including, for example, marketing services, fulfillment services, cloud-based computer and data storage and other IT solutions and payment processing. These third parties may be subject to financial, legal, regulatory and labor issues, cyberattacks, security incidents, privacy breaches, service terminations, disruptions or interruptions, or other problems, which may impose additional costs or requirements on us or prevent these third parties from providing services to us or our customers on our behalf, which could harm our business. Additionally, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and other regulators have issued guidance stating that institutions under their supervision may be held responsible for the actions of the companies with which they contract. Accordingly, we could be adversely impacted to the extent our vendors fail to comply with the legal requirements applicable to the particular products or services being offered. In some cases, vendors are the sole source, or one of a limited number of sources, of the services they provide to us. For example, we are solely reliant on our agreement with our cloud computing web services provider for the provision of cloud infrastructure services to support our platform. Most of our vendor agreements are terminable by the vendor with little or no notice, and if our current vendors were to terminate their agreements with us or otherwise stop providing services to us on acceptable terms, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other vendors in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. If any vendor fails to provide the services we require, fails to meet contractual requirements (including compliance with applicable laws and regulations), fails to maintain adequate data privacy controls and electronic security systems, or suffers a cyberattack or other security incident or breach, we could be subject to CFPB, Federal Trade Commission, SEC, and other regulatory enforcement actions, claims from third parties, including our customers, incur significant costs to resolve any issues or suffer economic and reputational harm, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative products and services, the use of our products and services may not develop, and, consequently, our business would suffer. Rapid, significant and disruptive technological changes impact the industries in which we operate, including developments in crypto (including distributed ledger and blockchain technologies). As a result, we expect new services and technologies to continue to emerge and evolve, and we cannot predict the effects of technological changes on our business. In addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we rely in part on third parties for the development of and access to new or evolving technologies. These third parties may restrict or prevent our access to, or utilization of, those technologies, as well as their platforms or products. In addition, we may not be able to accurately predict which technological developments or innovations will become widely adopted and how those technologies may be regulated. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the industries in which we operate will continue to emerge and may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. Developing and incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require substantial expenditures, take considerable time, and ultimately may not be -23- Table of Content s successful. In addition, our ability to adopt new products and services and to develop new technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, payments networks, changes to laws and regulations, resistance to change from clients or customers, third-party intellectual property rights, or other factors. Our success will depend on our ability to develop and incorporate new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. A large percentage of our revenue is concentrated with a small number of clients; the loss of any such client would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Moreover, because of our B2B2C go-to-market model, the loss of any client regardless of the reason increases the risk that the customers that originally emanated from that client will transition to another provider or stop doing business with us, which would harm our business. The concentration of a significant portion of our business and transaction volume with a limited number of clients exposes us disproportionately to the risk of any of those clients choosing to no longer partner with us, to the economic performance of such clients or their respective industries or to any events, circumstances, or risks affecting such clients or their respective industries. Any such loss could make our platform less appealing to existing and potential customers. Accordingly, the loss of any significant client relationship could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. Acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships, or alliances may be difficult to identify. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future investments, strategic transactions or acquisitions, including our pending acquisition of Apex Crypto LLC, and integration of these acquisitions may pose integration challenges, divert the attention of management, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, joint ventures, partnerships, alliances and platform technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform, enhance our technology, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. For example, on November 2, 2022, we entered into an agreement to acquire all of the membership interests of Apex Crypto LLC (Apex). We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future investments, strategic transactions, or acquisitions, including the pending acquisition of Apex, and these transactions involve numerous risks that are not within our control. These risks include the following, among others: obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals necessary to consummate the transaction the acquisition, or to integrate the acquired business with our own; difficulty in assimilating the operations, systems, and personnel of the acquired business; difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues; difficulty integrating the acquired businesss accounting, management information and other administrative systems; inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business; inability to retain key customers, vendors and other business clients of the acquired business; inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our results of operations; -24- Table of Content s regulatory changes that affect the value of the businesses we acquire or our plans for integration of those businesses, or that expose us to additional regulation or litigation in connection with the acquired businesses; significant post-acquisition investments which may lower the actual benefits realized through the acquisition; potential failure of the due diligence process to identify significant issues with product quality, legal, and financial liabilities among other things; and potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective. In particular, the pending acquisition of Apex presents risks to our business, including because: our ability to consummate the Apex acquisition is subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance as to whether we will obtain that regulatory approval. Further, even if we do obtain the required approvals, the timing of those approvals may be later than we project, which would have a material adverse effect on our revenue projections; our ability to retain the existing clients of Apex, and expand those relationships, is a key growth driver for us; we plan to replace and/or augment many of our existing systems and relationships (e.g. agreements with crypto liquidity providers) with those presently used by Apex; Apexs platform currently processes significantly more volume than our platform, and we need to be able to accommodate this significant increase in volume; Apex currently lists more cryptoassets on its platform than we do on ours, and there can be no assurance that some or all of those additional cryptoassets will not be deemed to be securities or otherwise restricted from trading by regulators; and The commercial relationship with Apex Clearing that is a part of the pending acquisition is a key growth driver for us, but that relationship may not produce the benefits that we envision. Our failure to address these risks, or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future investments, strategic transactions, or acquisitions, could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental expenses or the write-off of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition or results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. For example, under the purchase agreement for the acquisition of Apex, we agreed to issue cash consideration of $55.0 million, up to $45 million in shares of our Class A common stock depending on Apex's achievement of certain profitability targets for the fourth quarter of 2022 ( Apexs profitability in the fourth quarter of 2022 results in Class A common stock consideration of $9.0 million based on the earn-out target mechanics) , and up to an additional $100.0 million in shares of our Class A common stock depending on Apex's achievement of certain financial targets through 2025. We may require additional capital to support the growth of our business, and such capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Other than the proceeds received from the VIH Business Combination, we have funded our operations since inception primarily through equity financings and payments received from our platform. We cannot be certain when or if our operations will generate sufficient cash to fully fund our ongoing operations or the growth of our business. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business, which may require us to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest in future growth opportunities, which could harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations. If we incur debt, the debt holders would have rights senior to holders of existing securities to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders -25- Table of Content s will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our existing securities. Our decision to issue securities in the future will depend on numerous considerations, including factors beyond our control, thus we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of any future issuances of debt or equity securities. As a result, our stockholders bear the risk of future issuances of debt or equity securities reducing the value of our securities and diluting their interests. We hold our cash and cash equivalents that we use to meet our working capital and operating expense needs in deposit accounts that could be adversely affected if the financial institutions holding such funds fail. We hold our cash and cash equivalents that we use to meet our working capital and operating expense needs in deposit accounts at multiple financial institutions. The balances held in these accounts typically exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit insurance limit. If a financial institution in which we hold such funds fails or is subject to significant adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets, we could be subject to a risk of loss of all or a portion of such uninsured funds or be subject to a delay in accessing all or a portion of such uninsured funds. Any such loss or lack of, or delay in, access to these funds could adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to meet our ongoing working capital and operating expense obligations. We also maintain investment accounts with other financial institutions in which we hold our investments and, if access to these investments were to be impaired, we may not be able to open new operating accounts, sell investments or transfer funds from our investment accounts to new operating accounts on a timely basis sufficient to meet our operating expense obligations. In addition, if further liquidity and financial stability concerns arise with respect to banks and financial institutions, the ability of our clients or their customers to access existing cash, cash equivalents or investments or to access existing, or enter into new, banking arrangements or facilities, may be adversely impacted, which could in turn impact such parties ability to pay their obligations to us or to our clients, or to enter into new commercial arrangements with us. The loss of the services of our senior management could adversely affect our business. The experience of our senior management is a valuable asset to us. If we are unable to retain members of our core senior management team, including our Chief Executive Officer, Gavin Michael, we could experience uncertainty and significant delays or difficulty in the achievement of our development and strategic objectives and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely harmed. Our management team has significant experience, is responsible for many of our core competencies, and would be difficult to replace. Competition for senior executives in these businesses is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. Failure to retain talented senior leadership could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business will suffer if we fail to attract and retain highly skilled employees. Our future success will depend on our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel for all areas of our organization, particularly information technology and sales. Further, hiring qualified and experienced personnel in this specialized technology space is difficult due to the high level of competition and scarcity of experience. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we do and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training employees, which increases their value to competitors that may seek to recruit them. We may not be able to attract, develop and maintain the skilled workforce necessary to operate our business and labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of qualified personnel, which would negatively impact our business. Further, if we suffer attrition and shortages with respect to certain of our customer service personnel, such as our call centers, our ability to maintain compliance with our service level commitments to clients may be impacted, resulting in financial penalties and, potentially, damage to or loss of those client relationships. In addition, in response to the difficult macroeconomic environment and in an effort to reduce our operating expenses, we recently implemented two separate reductions in force, or RIFs, that collectively impacted approximately 95 full-time employees. These RIFs may impact the morale of our -26- Table of Content s current employees, may impact our ability to retain them and to attract new employees in the future, which would have a negative effect on the implementation of our operations. Our revenue is impacted, to a significant extent, by the general economy. Our business and our clients businesses are sensitive to macroeconomic conditions. Economic factors such as interest rates, inflation, changes in monetary and related policies, market volatility (including as a result of geopolitical issues, such as the war in Ukraine), consumer confidence, and unemployment rates are among the most significant factors that impact consumer spending behavior. Weak economic conditions, high interest rates, inflation or a significant deterioration in economic conditions reduce the amount of disposable income consumers have, which in turn reduces consumer spending and the willingness of consumers to accumulate and spend crypto and loyalty points or otherwise transact in such assets, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. In particular, the high levels of, and increases in, inflation currently experienced in the United States could negatively impact our business by increasing our costs and reducing consumer activities necessarily to our revenue generation. Our ability to generate subscription and service revenue and transaction revenue depends, in part, on customers continuing to access and utilize our platform. Our clients businesses may decrease or fail to increase as a result of factors outside of their control, such as the macroeconomic conditions referenced above, or business conditions affecting a particular client, industry vertical, or region. Weak economic conditions also could extend the length of our clients sales cycle and cause consumers to delay making (or not make) purchases. Some of our clients have experienced a decrease in sales, supply chain disruptions, inventory shortages, and other adverse effects. A decline in activity by consumers of our clients products and services for any reason may correspondingly result in lower revenue generated by our platform. If we experience rapid growth, it may place significant demands on our operational, administrative and financial resources and it may be difficult to sustain such growth. We have a relatively limited operating history even at our current scale and our projected growth in future periods exposes us to increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties. If we are unable to appropriately scale our operations to support such growth, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. If we experience rapid growth, we could face significant challenges in: maintaining and developing relationships with existing and new clients securing funding to maintain our operations and future growth; maintaining adequate financial, business and risk controls; implementing new or updated information and financial risk