Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. How We Are Different The crypto, loyalty and payments markets in which we operate are highly competitive, rapidly changing and highly innovative. We believe that we are well-positioned given our unique ability to provide all of these capabilities under one platform, combined with our institutional-grade, secure and regulated infrastructure. We believe this provides a competitive differentiation that would be difficult to replicate. Although we do not believe that we have any single direct competitor for the full range of products we provide through our platform, we compete with a wide range of parties, including crypto exchanges, peer-to-peer payment systems, loyalty program redemption solutions, alternative payment methods and app-based platforms for similar services. This market is growing and changing rapidly, so we expect that we will continue to see increased competition with new entrants into the space or existing competitors expanding their product offerings. We believe that our business model provides us with significant competitive advantages, including: Intersection of crypto, loyalty and payments. We operate at the unique intersection of crypto, loyalty and payments. We believe we are the only company to provide consumers, business and institutions with a platform that spans the entire digital asset ecosystem. Because of regulatory positioning and our proprietary technology, we believe that it would be difficult for competitors to replicate our platforms diverse functionality. Breadth of digital assets. Our platform combines traditional digital assets, such as loyalty and reward points, with emerging digital assets like crypto. We believe that this combination offers both businesses and consumers a low barrier to entry to using and holding digital assets for everyday uses. For example, our crypto rewards solution will allow consumers to passively acquire crypto assets through their regular day-to-day spending. For merchants, our crypto-as-a-service product will allow them to offer their customers the ability to buy and sell crypto, as well as use crypto as a form of payment, without having to build the infrastructure in-house. Partner-led strategy. We seek to leverage our existing and new partner relationships with leading brands to add consumer users to our platform. By partnering with these brands and their existing customer bases, we -7- Table of Contents believe consumers are more likely to embrace the new asset classes offered on our platform. We also believe that, as a relatively new brand, this approach will allow us to scale users and revenue more quickly. Institutional-grade platform. Our platform architecture is engineered to natively support digital assets across a wide range of classes, with scalability and strong regulatory and compliance controls. Our platform includes a custody warehouse that we designed and built in partnership with our majority investor, ICE. As the owner and operator of multiple trading and clearing operations across the world, ICE has decades of experience building safe, secure and reliable infrastructure that sophisticated investors and institutions demand. Our platform was designed with the same principles in mind to provide safe, reliable infrastructure for consumers in their everyday use. Trusted and scalable capabilities. Our approach, built to scale with technology, privacy, security and compliance at the core, is informed by our team's decades of collective experience. Our platform moves a significant amount of volume across digital asset classes every day, and we handle customer service for many of the largest financial institutions in the country. We believe these pillars, when applied to the rapidly evolving digital asset space, provide confidence to consumers, merchants, institutions and loyalty partners that participate in our ecosystem. Sales and Marketing B2B2C Model . Our go-to-market strategy is B2B2C, where we acquire consumers primarily via partner relationships. We believe our focused approach on building scalable partnerships will drive strong growth in end users. We also believe this approach is more efficient and scalable than a direct-to-consumer strategy, and we have seen early evidence that this belief is warranted. Our goal is to provide our partners with opportunities to leverage Bakkts capabilities, either through their existing channels or by leveraging our consumer experiences. We expect to grow users by marketing into the customer bases of our partners, and by deepening engagement with our capabilities. We have focused much of our efforts to build our partner network in four key areas: financial services; travel and entertainment; retail; and payments and platforms. While we have made significant headway building partnerships in these industries, there remain significant untapped growth opportunities in each area. For example, traditional financial institutions are facing increased competition from a broader group of financial technology entrants (fintechs). We expect that the pressure on them to provide innovative products and increased competition will continue to grow. Our ability to stand up digital asset capabilities within partner ecosystems makes our platform an attractive solution for such financial institutions seeking an intuitive, tightly-integrated, low risk solution to offer crypto services. Value of Partnerships. We believe our growing network of partners provides potential for increased scale and substantiates the viability of our business plan. As our partnerships go live, we will deploy marketing resources to drive consumer adoption and usage of our platform. The successful activation and implementation of these partnerships are expected to be a significant driver for our transaction growth and associated revenue, including crypto trading revenue. We believe we will benefit from a positive network effect, where the value of our network will generally increase as we add new partners, businesses, consumers and digital assets to our platform. For instance, we are seeing continued confirmation of the benefits of a B2B2C partnership network through our collaboration with Choice Hotels, which launched in September 2021, and with Wyndham Rewards, which launched in December 2021. Since our launch with Choice, we have seen higher conversion rates, an approximately 50% lower cost to acquire consumers and a higher return engagement from these customers. Similarly, Wyndham Rewards customers have also had higher conversion rates, lower customer acquisition costs and higher activation rates of the Bakkt card as compared to the general population. Customer Care Our customer service channels are at the core of our offerings to partners, providing seamless and easy-to-leverage support for the wide array of digital asset transactions on our platform. We have invested heavily in customer support to provide our partners and their customers with the best possible experience. Leveraging our staff of over 300 customer service representatives, we provide 24x7 support for our consumer app and loyalty redemption customers. Our customer service agents undergo a rigorous training program and are continually monitored and trained as new capabilities are added to the platform. New partners are able to leverage our deep expertise in customer support as they roll out new offerings, like crypto, to their consumer bases. -8- Table of Contents Technology Our platform allows consumers to redeem and convert, spend and pay, send and trade digital assets. This is enabled by our core platforms and infrastructure which provide loyalty integrations, virtual bank/credit cards, travel redemption, buy/sell trading, and digital asset exchange. Additionally, our platform supports "know your customer" ("KYC"), anti-money laundering ("AML"), and other anti-fraud measures to combat financial crime. Our modern use experience and agile API-enabled platform allows us to partner and easily integrate with companies, including through the following: Our loyalty redemption service is provided as software as a service (SaaS) and powers rewards redemption for leading loyalty programs. The service is built upon highly scalable proprietary technology and supports integration with dozens of suppliers and millions of items, both through a mobile-first responsive web app or integrated into partners apps or sites. Our digital asset marketplace is an institutional-grade cryptocurrency custody and trading platform, primarily comprised of our custody platform, the Bakkt Warehouse, and our pricing execution engine. The custody platform is purpose-built to safeguard digital assets, with multi-signature wallet policies, hardware security modules and offline storage of private key material, blockchain surveillance and AML/KYC compliance integrated into the core of the platform. Our pricing execution engine is an automated trading system that facilitates the purchase and sale of cryptocurrencies by consumers, and is built to scale on demand leveraging the cloud. Our proprietary payments platform is a two-sided, fully integrated, cloud-based scalable payments platform. It is deployed using managed container services and managed databases in the cloud to scale on demand. Our payment APIs conform to industry standards and are used by merchants to accept our alternative payment method either in-app, in-store or online. Cybersecurity Each of our products is architected, deployed, and managed through controls designed to protect our consumers' sensitive personally identifiable information ("PII") or other confidential data we store or manage in line with industry best practices and applicable law. We maintain a comprehensive cyber security program, managed by a dedicated team of security professionals, leveraging multiple layers of defenses to protect consumer data and digital assets, including cryptocurrency that we keep in custody. For example, we operate a combination of administrative, technical, and physical controls. Some of these controls include the use of biometrics, hardware security modules, advanced cryptographic algorithms, 24x7 monitoring, security personnel, separation of duties and other controls to protect and restrict unauthorized movement of crypto assets to and from the custody operations conducted by Bakkt Trust Company LLC (Bakkt Trust or, as it is marketed, the Bakkt Warehouse). Additionally, we regularly utilize independent and reputable external parties to assess and provide added assurance that our products are appropriately secured and resilient against modern cyber threats. We currently maintain an active AICPA SOC 2 Type 2 certifications for our consumer app as well as our loyalty platform. We are also Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard ("PCI-DSS") compliant for the in-scope systems where cardholder data is stored or processed. We comply with the New York Department of Financial Services ("NYDFS") cybersecurity requirements which impose strict rules related to establish a detailed cybersecurity plan, enact a comprehensive cybersecurity policy, and maintain an ongoing reporting system for cybersecurity events. Finally, we maintain a privacy program designed to meet applicable federal and state privacy laws or regulations. This includes the capability to effectively respond to consumer data subject requests or regulatory requests. Regulation Federal and state laws and regulations apply to many key aspects of our business. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with these requirements may result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approved status, regulatory or governmental investigations, administrative enforcement actions, sanctions, civil and criminal liability, private litigation, reputational harm, or constraints on our ability to continue to operate. We operate in a regulatory environment that is evolving rapidly and increasing in scope. As such, it is possible that current or future laws or regulations could be enacted, interpreted or applied in a manner that would prohibit, alter, or impair our existing or planned -9- Table of Contents products and services, or that could require costly, time-consuming, or otherwise burdensome compliance measures. Further, additional laws and regulations may apply to our businesses as we expand outside of the United States in the future. Regulation of Our Payments Business. Bakkt Marketplace, LLC (Bakkt Marketplace), our subsidiary, maintains a money transmitter license in each jurisdiction in which we operate that requires such a license for our activities. In all other jurisdictions where Bakkt Marketplace operates, we have established with the applicable licensing body that a money transmitter license is not required at this time. We will comply with new license requirements as they arise. Bakkt Marketplace is also registered as a "Money Services Business" with the U.S. Department of Treasurys Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). These licenses and registrations subject us to, among other things, record-keeping requirements, reporting requirements, bonding requirements, limitations on the investment of customer funds, and examination by state and federal regulatory agencies. These licensing laws also address matters such as change in control, and regulatory approval of controlling shareholders, directors, and senior management of the licensed entity. In connection with our payments business and card product, we are subject to compliance with certain industry rules, including those promulgated by the National Automated Clearing House Association, or NACHA, as well as card network rules and guidelines. Additional new products and services that we offer may impose additional obligations on us to comply with NACHA and card network obligations related to preventing fraud and security breaches. Regulation of Our Virtual Currency Business. We provide cryptocurrency custody services through Bakkt Trust, a limited purpose trust company that is chartered under the New York Banking Law and subject to the supervision and oversight of the NYDFS. Consequently, we must comply with laws, rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to the New York Banking Law with respect to the cryptocurrency custody services we provide through Bakkt Trust, including those related to capitalization, corporate governance, anti-money laundering, disclosure, reporting and examination, as well as supervisory guidance and requirements. Bakkt Trust is also subject to FinCEN requirements as a financial institution. We are subject in certain jurisdictions to licensing and regulatory requirements as a result of offering our customers the ability to aggregate, buy, sell, convert, spend and send virtual currency through our platform. Consequently, we must comply with laws, rules and regulations promulgated by federal or state regulators in those jurisdictions in order to provide our services, including requirements related to capitalization, consumer protection, anti-money laundering, disclosure, reporting and examination, as well as supervisory guidance and requirements. Bakkt Marketplace also has a virtual currency license (or BitLicense) from the NYDFS, which subjects it to NYDFS's oversight with respect to such business activities conducted in New York State and with New York residents. The laws and regulations applicable to virtual currency and other digital assets are evolving and subject to interpretation and change. For instance, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) has indicated that it considers certain cryptocurrencies to possibly constitute securities. The SEC has yet to issue any formal regulation on this point, though it has put forth some guidance on overarching frameworks and relevant factors to consider in this analysis. Therefore, our virtual currency and digital asset services offered through our platform or our limited purpose trust company may become subject to regulation by other authorities and/or may subject us to additional requirements. Privacy and Information Cybersecurity Regulations. Aspects of our operations or business are subject to laws and regulation in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions relating to privacy, data protection and cybersecurity. Accordingly, we publish our privacy policies and terms of service, which describe our practices concerning the use, transmission, and disclosure of information. As our business continues to expand in the United States and potentially beyond, and as laws and regulations continue to be passed and their interpretations continue to evolve in numerous jurisdictions, additional laws and regulations may become relevant to us. Regulatory authorities around the world are considering numerous legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy, data protection and cybersecurity. In addition, the interpretation and application of these laws and regulations in the United States and elsewhere are often uncertain and in a state of flux. As our business continues to develop and expand, we continue to monitor the additional rules and regulations that may become relevant. For additional information regarding these laws and regulations and related risks, please see Risk Factors Risks Related to Regulation, Taxation, and Laws Complying with evolving laws and requirements relating to privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity may be expensive and force us to make changes to our business, and failure to comply with such laws and requirements could result in substantial harm to our business. Consumer Protection Regulation. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and other federal and state regulatory agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission, broadly regulate financial products, enforce consumer -10- Table of Contents protection laws applicable to credit, deposit, prepaid products, and payments, and other similar products. Such agencies have broad consumer protection mandates, and they promulgate, interpret, and enforce laws, rules and regulations, including with respect to unfair, deceptive, and abusive acts and practices ("UDAAP") that may impact or apply to our business. For example, under federal and state financial privacy laws and regulations, we must provide notice to consumers of our policies on sharing non-public information with third parties, among other requirements. In addition, under the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, we are required to disclose the terms of, and any fees applicable to, our electronic fund transfer services to consumers prior to their use of the service, among other requirements. We are further required to extend error resolution and limited liability protections to customers who use our card product. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Regulation. We are subject to AML laws and regulations in the United States, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended, and its implemented regulations enforced by FinCEN, as well as laws designed to prevent the use of the financial systems to facilitate terrorist activities. We have implemented a comprehensive AML compliance program designed to prevent our payments network and custody services from being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illicit activity. Our program is also designed to prevent our network and other services from being used to facilitate business in countries, or with persons or entities, included on designated lists promulgated by OFAC and equivalent authorities in other countries. Our AML compliance program is comprised of policies, procedures, reporting protocols, including reporting requirements for suspicious transactions, and internal controls, including the designation of a compliance officer, training for employees, and a regular independent review of the program. It is further designed to address applicable legal and regulatory requirements and to assist in managing risk associated with money laundering and terrorist financing. Indirect Regulatory Requirements. We maintain relationships with certain partners, including banks and other financial institutions in the United States, that are regulated by state, local and federal agencies. Because of these relationships, we may be subject to indirect regulation or examination by these institutions' regulators. Knowing these indirect regulatory requirements may exist, we seek to account for them in our commercial agreements. Escheatment and Unclaimed Property Regulations. There is regulatory uncertainty regarding how states and jurisdictions treat virtual currencies and other crypto assets under unclaimed property laws and regulations. Unclaimed property laws, as may be applicable, require us to report and to remit certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time. We have policies and procedures designed to help us comply with these laws. Intellectual Property The protection of our intellectual property and all corresponding rights throughout the world, including our trademarks, service marks, trade dress, logos, trade names, domain names, goodwill, patents, copyrights, works of authorship (whether or not copyrightable), software and trade secrets, know-how, and proprietary and other confidential information, together with all applications, registrations, renewals, extensions, improvements and counterparts in connection with any of the foregoing, is important to the success of our business. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by filing applications in various patent, trademark and other government offices, and relying on applicable laws and regulations in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We have sought to register our core brands as domain names and as trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and a large number of other jurisdictions. We also have in place an active program to continue to secure, police and enforce trademarks, service marks, trade dress, logos, trade names, and domain names that correspond to our brands in markets of interest. We have filed patent applications in the U.S. and plan to extend them into international jurisdictions covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology and new innovations. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights where appropriate when offering or procuring products and services. We have routinely entered into confidentiality and invention disclosure and assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and non-disclosure agreements with external parties with whom we conduct business to control access to, and use and disclosure of, our proprietary information. Human Capital Our employees are essential in propelling our success. We hold our employees to high standards and aim to create a culture of accountability and results. Our performance expectations and attributes empower our company and reflect how we expect to operate, collaborate and make decisions. At Bakkt, we strive to challenge the status quo with new ideas, have -11- Table of Contents open and honest communication and appreciate our diversity of thought, take ownership and accountability for delivering valuable results and act with integrity, respect and reliability. At Bakkt, we understand that our success is built by operating as a unified company one culture and team across the digital asset landscape, with a focus on growth and innovation. We are committed to diversity throughout our company. We embrace and encourage our employees differences, valuing a diverse, inclusive and safe workplace. We aim to promote diversity and inclusion through a number of employee engagement events, internal and external speaker sessions and teaching seminars on relevant and important topics. Our colleagues come from a wide variety of backgrounds to work toward a common vision for the company. We bring our teams together in bi-weekly all hands calls and transparently share steps taken towards our company goals. It is our policy that employees are treated, and treat each other, with fairness, respect and dignity. Our commitment to our employees is reflected in our ability to attract high-caliber talent, continuously innovate, and provide exceptional service and solutions to our partners and customers. As of December 28, 2021, we had a total of 765 employees, which included 579 full-time employees, all of whom are located in the United States. We also engage temporary employees and consultants as needed to support our operations. Collectively, approximately 43% of our workforce is dedicated to engineering, design, or product roles. Our core locations are Alpharetta, GA, Scottsdale, AZ, New York City, NY and San Francisco, CA. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. We believe our positive culture strengthens our company and enables our business success. Legal Proceedings We are not currently a party to any legal proceedings that would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. From time to time, we are subject to litigation incidental to our business, as well as other litigation of a non-material nature in the ordinary course of business. COVID-19 Impacts In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak a global pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected global economic activity and, in 2020, contributed to significant declines and volatility in financial markets. The COVID-19 pandemic had an impact on our business during the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily in that it (i) decreased revenue from our loyalty and travel businesses, and (ii) impacted our ability to expand our relationships with existing loyalty partners, and to conclude relationships with new loyalty partners, whose businesses similarly have been adversely affected by the pandemic. During the year ended December 31, 2021, our business operations started to recover from the impacts of the pandemic, and revenue from the loyalty and travel business also started to recover. Available Information Our investor relations website is https://investors.bakkt.com. We use our investor relations website to post important information for investors, including news releases, analyst presentations, and supplemental financial information, and as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor our investor relations website, in addition to following press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes, before making a decision to invest in our securities. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. -12- Table of Contents Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that you should consider before investing in our securities. These risks are described more fully below and include, but are not limited to, risks relating to the following: Risks Related to Our Business, Finances and Operations our business model is newly developed and may encounter additional risks and challenges as it grows and changes; our platform is still in the early stages of its release and is largely untested; our ability to add additional functionalities and digital assets to our platform may adversely affect future growth; we have limited operating history and a history of operating losses; estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth may be inaccurate; we may be unable to attract additional enterprise or loyalty partners and retain and grow our relationships with our existing enterprise or loyalty partners; we face increasingly intense competition in our markets; we may fail to maintain consistently high levels of user satisfaction and trust; we may be unable to successfully transition certain services provided to us by ICE in the past; we rely on the availability of third-party services and they may experience disruption or performance or regulatory problems; if we experience rapid growth, our operational, administrative and financial resources may be strained and unable to sustain such growth; and the COVID-19 pandemic may significantly affect our business and operations. Risks Related to Cryptoassets we rely on cryptoasset custodial solutions and related technology, which may experience theft, employee or vendor sabotage, security and cybersecurity risks, system failures and other operational issues which could damage our reputation and brand; our cryptoasset businesss pricing model and incentive arrangements may create conflicts of interest and affect our revenues; there may be a general perception among regulators and others that cryptoassets are used to facilitate illegal activity such as fraud, money laundering, tax evasion and ransomware scams; cryptoassets, such as bitcoin, do not have extensive historical precedence and distributed ledger technology continues to rapidly evolve; cryptoassets are subject to volatile price fluctuations which can impact our business; our financial results and the market price of our securities may be adversely affected if price volatility of cryptoassets causes our internal market maker algorithm to malfunction; if the underlying smart contracts for cryptoassets do not operate as expected, they could lose value and our business could be adversely affected; and -13- Table of Contents we may encounter technical issues in connection with the integration of supported cryptoassets and changes and upgrades to their underlying networks, which could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Regulation, Taxation and Laws we are subject to extensive government regulation, oversight, licensure and appraisals and our failure to comply could materially harm our business; the U.S. state and federal regulatory regime governing blockchain technologies and cryptocurrencies is uncertain, and new regulations or policies may alter our business practices with respect to cryptocurrencies; digital assets are currently subject to many different, and potentially overlapping, regulatory regimes, and may in the future be subject to different regulatory regimes than those that are currently in effect; and complying with evolving privacy and other data related laws and requirements may be expensive and force us to make changes to our business. Risks Related to Information Technology and Data actual or perceived cyberattacks, security incidents, or breaches could result in serious harm to our reputation, business and financial condition. Risks Related to Risk Management and Financial Reporting if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we may be unable to produce timely and accurate financial statements, which could have a material effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Securities a significant portion of our total outstanding securities are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future, which could cause the market price of our securities to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Risks Related to Our Business, Finances and Operations Our business model is newly developed, untested and continually evolving and may encounter additional risks and challenges as it grows and changes. Our vision is that our users, which include consumers, enterprises and financial institutions, will utilize our platform as the go-to solution for buying, selling, converting, spending, redeeming and sending multiple types of digital assets. Most of the digital assets that we have incorporated and intend to incorporate into our platform in the future are already being handled by incumbent providers, as well as other competitors who have established payment programs. Our business model also assumes that there will be multiple synergies and benefits for users arising out of a single platform to buy, sell, convert, spend, redeem and send digital assets that have traditionally been usable only via individual solutions. To be successful, we must attract users to our platform and away from these existing solutions and platforms; and failure to achieve acceptance would impede our ability to develop and sustain a commercial business. There can be no assurance that our platform will gain the acceptance of users, consumers or other market participants, or generate the anticipated synergies. Because some of the digital assets that are anticipated to be available on our platform have not previously been available for these types of usage, it is difficult to predict the preferences and requirements of users, consumers or other market participants, and our platform, design and technology may not appeal to such users or other market participants, or be incompatible with new or emerging forms of digital assets or related technologies. Failure to achieve acceptance would impede our ability to develop and sustain a commercial business. We primarily generate revenue when users, largely acquired through our partners, buy, sell, convert, spend, redeem and send digital assets through our platform. Our success depends on both bringing on these partners and in the transaction volume from end users of our services. If we are not able to bring new partners onto the platform, many of whom will pay us subscription fees for our platform services, our revenue and business concern could be negatively impacted. Additionally, much of our future revenue depends on transaction fees earned from users buying, selling, -14- Table of Contents converting, redeeming and spending digital assets and the margin we charge in connection with consumer purchase and sale of cryptoassets. If we are not able to continue to grow our base of active users, we will not be able to continue to grow our revenues or our business, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and may cause us to be unable to continue as a going concern. The attractiveness of our platform to users depends upon, among other things: the number and variety of digital assets that users may buy, sell, convert, spend, redeem and send through our platform; our brand and reputation, as well as users experience and satisfaction with, and trust and perception of, our solutions; technological innovation; regulatory compliance and data security; and services and products offered by competitors. Moreover, loyalty partners may choose to modify their rewards programs in a way that makes them less appealing to consumers or terminate their programs entirely, either of which could make our platform less attractive to consumers. If we fail to retain existing relationships with, or attract new, loyalty partners, enterprises and financial institutions, attract new consumers to our platform, or continually expand usage and transaction volume on our platform, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be materially and adversely affected. We will have both increased financial and reputational risks if there is a failure to launch one or more features, or if the launch of a new feature is unsuccessful. Also, there can be no assurance that we will receive support partners to launch features as planned or that we will operate as anticipated. We may also require regulatory approvals, including, for our example, adding crypto rewards and open loop crypto wallet functionality to our platform, and may require additional licenses and/or consultation with regulators to add, modify or discontinue certain aspects of our business model, which could lead to delays or other complexities in effectuating such changes and have a materially adverse effect on our business and plan of operations. Furthermore, our business model entails numerous risks, including risks relating to our ability to: manage the complexity of our business model to stay current with the industry and new technologies; successfully enter new categories, markets and jurisdictions in which we may have limited or no prior experience; integrate into multiple distributed ledger technologies as they currently exist and as they evolve; successfully develop and integrate products, systems and personnel into our business operations; and obtain and maintain required licenses and regulatory approvals for our business. Our platform is in its early stages of release, will be further developed, and is largely untested. Any failure by us to successfully execute on the development of our platform would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our integrated platform is in the early stages of release and will be further refined and developed, and certain areas of our platform are still under development and largely untested on a commercial scale. We are continually working to expand our service offerings, including, for example offering crypto rewards. Any failure by us to execute on the development of our platform may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that our platform, and its planned functionality, will be successfully developed. Our platform will require significant additional development in order to add all of the additional functionality and features planned by our management and discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There can be no assurance that the additional functionality and features currently planned for our platform will be successfully developed, including those intended to be included in our consumer app, in a timely fashion or at all. Any problems that we encounter with the -15- Table of Contents operation of our platform, including technical, legal and regulatory problems, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to add additional functionalities and digital assets to our platform, our prospects for future growth may be adversely affected. Our platform currently reflects a subset of the planned functionalities and digital assets and a limited number of enterprise and loyalty partners and financial institutions. Our ability to attract and retain users to our platform, and therefore increase revenues, depends on our ability to successfully expand our platforms functionalities and digital assets over time. Accordingly, we intend to add enterprise and additional loyalty partners, financial institutions and digital assets, including additional cryptoassets, in the future, but our management has not yet determined either the order that additional partners and digital assets will be included or the timing of any such additions. Any substantial delay in the inclusion of additional partners and digital assets may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will have both increased financial and reputational risks if there is a failure to launch one or more functionalities, or if the launch of a new functionality or digital asset is unsuccessful. Also, there can be no assurance that we will receive the necessary regulatory approvals or support from partners to launch features as planned or that we will operate as anticipated. To penetrate new markets and add new functionalities, we will need to develop an understanding of those new markets and the associated business challenges faced by participants in them. Developing this level of understanding may require substantial investments of time and resources, and we may not be successful. In addition to the need for substantial resources, regulation could limit our ability to introduce new platform opportunities. For instance, the equity securities trading and lending industries are highly regulated. Our proposed operations in these fields could take an extended period of time to be approved by regulatory authorities, or may not be approved at all, and, if approved, would require us to devote additional resources to compliance. Further, as digital assets and distributed ledger technologies evolve, we may add, modify or discontinue certain aspects of our business model relating to the product mix and service offerings. Future additions and modifications to our business will increase the complexity of our business and place significant strain on our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources and internal financial control and reporting functions. We cannot offer any assurance that these or any other additions or modifications will be successful or will not result in harm to our business. If we fail to penetrate new markets successfully, our revenue may grow at a slower rate than we anticipate and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have a limited operating history and a history of operating losses, which make it difficult to forecast our future results of operations. Further, we expect our operating expenses to increase significantly in the foreseeable future, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability to satisfy such increased expenses. We were founded in 2018 and have experienced net losses in the periods from inception through December 31, 2021. For example, our revenue was $11.5 million, $28.0 million, and $28.5 million in the periods of October 15, 2021 through December 31, 2021 (Successor) and January 1, 2021 through October 14, 2021 (Predecessor), and the year ended December 31, 2020, respectively, and we generated net losses of $153.1 million, $139.2 million, and $79.6 million in the periods of October 15, 2021 through December 31, 2021 (Successor) and January 1, 2021 through October 14, 2021 (Predecessor), and the year ended December 31, 2020, respectively. You should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to accurately forecast our future results of operations is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. Our historical revenue was achieved largely as the result of our white-labeled loyalty redemption product to loyalty partners reflects little revenue from the launch of our broader platform or our initial attempt at attracting consumers directly through the launch of our consumer app, and therefore should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Because of our limited operating history and the fact that our current and historical revenue was largely not derived from our currently planned business model, our future revenue growth is difficult to predict. Even if we experience strong revenue growth, in future periods our revenue or revenue growth could decline for a number of reasons, including slowing demand for our platform, increased competition, changes to technology, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, or our failure, for any reason, to take advantage of growth opportunities. We have also encountered, and will continue to encounter, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks and uncertainties described below. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties and our future revenue growth are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations, and our business could suffer. -16- Table of Contents We expect our operating costs and expenses to increase substantially in the foreseeable future. In particular, we intend to continue to invest significant resources to further develop our platform and expand our sales, marketing and professional services teams. We will also incur increased general and administrative expenses associated with our growth, including legal and accounting expenses and costs related to internal systems and operating as a public company. Our efforts to grow our business may be costlier than we expect, or our revenue growth rate may be slower than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset the increase in operating expenses resulting from these investments. If we are unable to achieve the revenue growth that we expect from these investments, or achieve profitability, it would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the value of our business and our securities may significantly decrease. Substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions that occur during that quarter, which may result in significant fluctuations in our operating results that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Our quarterly results, including revenue, expenses, consumer metrics and other key metrics, will be derived from transactions that occur during that quarter. Accordingly, our quarterly results are likely to fluctuate significantly. It is difficult for us to forecast accurately the level or source of our revenues or earnings, and the results for any one quarter are not necessarily an indication of future performance. Our quarterly results are likely to fluctuate due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control. Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast expenses. Quarterly and annual expenses reflected in our financial statements may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. Fluctuations in quarterly results may adversely affect the price of our securities. In addition, many of the factors that affect our quarterly results are difficult for us to predict. If our revenue, expenses, or key metrics in future quarters fall short of the expectations of our investors and financial analysts, the price of our securities could be adversely affected. Other factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly results include: our ability to attract and retain new users; transaction volume and mix; rates of repeat transaction and fluctuations in usage of our platform, including seasonality; the amount and timing of our expenses related to acquiring users and the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; changes to our relationships with our enterprise and loyalty partners; general economic, industry and market conditions, including the COVID-19 pandemic; our emphasis on user experience instead of near-term growth; competitive dynamics in the industry in which we operate; the amount and timing of stock-based compensation expenses; network outages, cyberattacks, or other actual or perceived security incidents or breaches or data privacy violations; changes in laws and regulations that impact our business; the cost of and potential outcomes of potential claims or litigation; and the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses and potential future charges for impairment of goodwill from acquired technologies or businesses. -17- Table of Contents Sales efforts to large enterprise and loyalty partners involve risks that may not be present or that are present to a lesser extent with respect to sales to smaller organizations. If we are unable to attract additional enterprise or loyalty partners and retain and grow our relationships with our existing enterprise or loyalty partners, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. For our platform to be successful, we must continue our existing, and successfully develop new, partnerships with large enterprise and loyalty partners, such as airlines, hotel chains, ecosystem providers, financial institutions and other organizations that sponsor loyalty and rewards programs, have first party rights to consumers and/or manage digital assets. Our ability to retain and grow our relationships with our enterprise and loyalty partners depends on the willingness of those partners to establish a commercial relationship with us. Moreover, our growth plan includes significant marketing expense to incentivize large organizations with whom we develop partnerships to market our consumer app and platform to their customers, which we expect would accelerate consumer adoption of our platform and lower our overall consumer acquisition cost. If large enterprise and loyalty partners with whom we develop partnerships fail to market or do not effectively market our platform to their customers, or consumers fail to adopt our platform through these marketing efforts in such numbers as we have projected, we may be required to increase spending on direct to consumer marketing and adoption efforts, our consumer acquisition costs may increase and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Sales to large enterprise and loyalty partners involve risks that may not be present or that are present to a lesser extent with sales to smaller organizations, such as longer sales cycles, more complex partner requirements and substantial upfront sales costs. For example, large enterprise and loyalty partners may require considerable time to evaluate and test our platform prior to making a decision, or may request compensation that may decrease our potential margins. Several factors influence the length and variability of our sales cycle, including the need to educate potential partners about the uses and benefits of our platform, the discretionary nature of purchasing and budget cycles, and the competitive nature of evaluation and purchasing approval processes. In order for our sales efforts to large organizations to be successful, we often must be able to engage with senior officers of the organization. As a result, the length of our sales cycle, from identification of the opportunity to deal closure, may vary significantly for each enterprise and loyalty partner, with sales to large enterprises typically taking longer to complete. If we fail to effectively manage the risks associated with sales cycles and sales to large enterprise and loyalty partners, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, certain of our recently announced partnerships have not yet been memorialized in definitive written agreements, or certain terms of the written agreements relating to such partnerships remain subject to further discussion and refinement before they can be implemented. Our ability to realize the intended benefits of these partnerships will depend on our ability to finalize such agreements, and to do so on terms sufficiently favorable to us. While we continue to negotiate partnership terms, we may be unable to agree to terms with such partners on commercially advantageous terms or at all, which may adversely affect our business and prospects. Moreover, even when we execute an agreement with a large partner, we are still dependent on that partner to deploy our platform. Large partners often delay deployment for a lengthy period of time after executing an agreement. Even when large enterprise and loyalty partners begin their integration into our platform and consumer app, they do so on a limited basis while frequently requiring that we provide implementation services, which may include customization and controls that limit the functionality of our platform, and negotiate pricing discounts, which increases our upfront investment in the sales effort with no guarantee that sales to these partners will justify our upfront investment, which can be substantial. If a large partner delays deployment for lengthy periods of time, our consumer and revenue growth may not achieve expectations and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our agreements with our enterprise and loyalty partners have terms that range from approximately three to five years, and in some cases, our existing partners can generally terminate these agreements without cause upon 30 to 90 days prior written notice. The termination of one or more of our agreements with a partner would result in a reduction in a loss of transacting accounts, transaction volume and revenue attributable to users generated from that partner relationship, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Large enterprise and loyalty partners, including future prospects we are pursuing, that have been adversely impacted by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic have slowed all new business integrations, particularly those in the travel and hospitality industries. Their willingness to expend resources to integrate into our platform or support the consumer app has been, and may continue to be, hampered by the uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, -18- Table of Contents existing enterprise and loyalty partners may seek financial relief from obligations to us, or choose to cancel contracts with us, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise. We face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the loyalty, rewards, payment, cryptoasset and investment industries. The loyalty, rewards, payment, cryptoasset and investment industries are highly competitive, rapidly changing, highly innovative, and increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny and oversight. Although we do not believe that we have any single direct competitor for the full range of products we will provide through our platform, we compete against a wide range of businesses in the loyalty, rewards, payment and investment industries generally, including those that are larger than us, have greater name recognition, larger pools of deployable capital, longer operating histories, or a dominant or more secure position, or offer other products and services to users that we do not offer, as well as smaller or younger companies that may be more agile in responding quickly to regulatory and technological changes. Many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting consumer needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Competition also may intensify as businesses enter into business combinations and partnerships, and established companies in other segments expand to become competitive with different aspects of our business. We compete primarily on the basis of the following: ability to attract, retain and engage users on our platform; ability to demonstrate to enterprise and loyalty partners that they may achieve incremental sales and attract new customers by using and offering our services to consumers; the strength of our integrated solution over other potential coalitions of disparate point solutions; consumers confidence in the safety, security, privacy and control of their information on our platform; ability to develop products and services across multiple commerce channels, including mobile payments, payments at the retail point of sale, cryptoassets and loyalty/rewards points; and system reliability, regulatory compliance and data security. We partner with many businesses and consider the ability to continue establishing these partnerships important to our business. Competition for relationships with these enterprise and loyalty partners is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to establish, grow, or maintain these partner relationships. Some of our current and potential competitors have larger customer bases, broader geographic scope, volume, scale, resources and market share than we do, which may provide them significant competitive advantages. Some competitors may also be subject to less burdensome licensing, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing and other regulatory requirements. They may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products and services, and offer lower prices or more effectively offer their own innovative programs, products and services. If we are not able to differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors, drive value for our users, or effectively and efficiently align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively in the market. If we fail to promote, protect and maintain our brand in a cost-effective manner, we may lose market share and our revenue may decrease. Our ability to further develop our business depends on our ability to build a strong and trusted brand. We are in the process of building our brand, and once achieved, we believe that developing, protecting and maintaining awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to attracting and retaining users to our platform. To the extent our brand exists today, it is largely visible with respect to loyalty providers, financial institutions and institutional investment products and services. Successful promotion of our brand will entail broadening our brand to consumers and will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts (including co-marketing efforts with partners) and the experience of users. Our efforts to build our brand have involved significant expense, and we expect to increase our marketing spend in -19- Table of Contents the near term. These brand promotion activities may not result in increased revenue and, even if they do, any increases may not offset the expenses incurred. Additionally, the successful protection and maintenance of our brand will depend on our ability to obtain, maintain, protect and enforce trademark and other intellectual property protection for our brand. If we fail to successfully promote, protect and maintain our brand, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote, protect and maintain our brand, we may lose our existing users to our competitors or be unable to attract new users. Any such loss of existing users, or inability to attract new users, directly or through our partners, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain a consistently high level of user satisfaction and trust in our brand, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects may be materially and adversely affected. If consumers do not trust our brand or do not have a positive experience, they may not use our platform. If enterprise and loyalty partners and financial institutions do not participate in our platform, our platform cannot attract or retain consumers, and vice versa. As a result, we have invested heavily in both our technology and our support team. If we are unable to maintain a consistently high level of positive user experience, we may lose existing users and consumers. In addition, our ability to attract new users is highly dependent on our reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing users and the partners we serve. Any failure to maintain a consistently high level of service, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality service, may adversely affect our reputation and the number of positive referrals that we receive. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to successfully transition certain services provided to us by ICE in the past, our business could be harmed. We have historically relied on ICE, a significant stockholder, to provide services with respect to certain aspects of our business, including the following: market credibility, regulatory and industry expertise and infrastructure support critical infrastructure for custody of our cryptoassets and institutional-grade services to support our custody arrangements, which leverage ICEs robust platform of security protocols. Pursuant to a transition services agreement (the Transition Services Agreement) we signed with ICE on November 10, 2021, we have agreed to transition certain services, including technology and data center services, away from ICE that have been provided under an intercompany services agreement (ISA). There can be no assurance that we will be able to timely, efficiently or economically develop these capacities or provide these services without ICE, or that we will be able to procure alternative services from third parties. We may also be unable to provide the services at the level that they have historically been provided by ICE, or at all. In the interim, because we rely on ICE to provide support services and to facilitate certain of our business activities, we may face increased operational risk. Over time, we anticipate that ICE may sell down its ownership interest in us, thereby reducing the alignment of interests between us and ICE. With or without this sell down, ICE may be subject to financial, legal, regulatory and labor issues, cyberattacks, security incidents, privacy breaches, service terminations, disruptions or interruptions, or other problems, which may impose additional costs or requirements on us or prevent ICE from providing services to us or our users on our behalf, which could harm our business. In addition, ICE may disagree with our interpretation of contract terms or applicable laws and regulations, fail or refuse to process transactions or provide other services adequately, take actions that degrade the functionality of our services, impose additional costs or requirements on us or our users, or give preferential treatment to competitive services. As a result, we may be subject to business disruptions, losses related to costs to remediate any deficiencies, consumer dissatisfaction, reputational damage, legal or regulatory proceedings, or other adverse consequences, any of which could harm our business. -20- Table of Contents We rely on third parties, over which we have no control, in our business, which creates additional risk, including risks related to the failure of third parties to provide various services that are important to our operations or to comply with legal or regulatory requirements. We have significant vendors that, among other things, provide us with financial, technology and other services to support our platforms and other activities, including, for example, marketing services, fulfillment services, cloud-based computer and data storage and other IT solutions and payment processing. Because we rely on third parties to provide certain of our services and to facilitate certain of our business activities, we face increased operational risk. These third parties may be subject to financial, legal, regulatory and labor issues, cyberattacks, security incidents, privacy breaches, service terminations, disruptions or interruptions, or other problems, which may impose additional costs or requirements on us or prevent these third parties from providing services to us or our users on our behalf, which could harm our business. Additionally, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and other regulators have issued guidance stating that institutions under their supervision may be held responsible for the actions of the companies with which they contract. Accordingly, we could be adversely impacted to the extent our vendors fail to comply with the legal requirements applicable to the particular products or services being offered. In some cases, vendors are the sole source, or one of a limited number of sources, of the services they provide to us. For example, we are solely reliant on our agreement with our cloud computing web services provider for the provision of cloud infrastructure services to support our platform. Most of our vendor agreements are terminable by the vendor on little or no notice, and if our current vendors were to terminate their agreements with us or otherwise stop providing services to us on acceptable terms, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other vendors in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. If any vendor fails to provide the services we require, fails to meet contractual requirements (including compliance with applicable laws and regulations), fails to maintain adequate data privacy controls and electronic security systems, or suffers a cyberattack or other security incident or breach, we could be subject to CFPB, Federal Trade Commission and other regulatory enforcement actions, claims from third parties, including our consumers, and suffer economic and reputational harm that could have an adverse effect on our business. Further, we may incur significant costs to resolve any such disruptions in service, which could adversely affect our business. If our platform does not meet our service level commitments, our current and future revenue and reputation may be negatively impacted. We typically commit, through service level agreements or otherwise, to maintaining a minimum service levels with respect to our platforms functionality, availability and response time. If we are unable to meet these commitments, we may be obligated to provide partners and users, including customers of our custody business and customers of ICE Futures U.S., Inc. (IFUS) and ICE Clear US, Inc. (ICUS) under our digital currency trading, clearing and custody services agreement with IFUS and ICUS (the Triparty Agreement), with remedies set forth below. A failure to meet service level commitments for a relatively short duration could cause us to be contractually obligated to issue credits or refunds to a large number of affected partners, institutions and consumers or result in the loss of partners, institutions and consumers. In addition, we cannot predict whether our partners, institutions and consumer participants will accept these credits, refunds, termination or extension rights in lieu of other legal remedies that may be available to them. Our failure to meet our commitments could also result in substantial consumer dissatisfaction or loss. Because of the loss of future revenues through the issuance of credits or the loss of partners, institutions and of consumers or other potential liabilities, our revenue could be significantly impacted if we cannot meet our service level commitments. In addition, we rely on public cloud providers, such as Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud, and any availability interruption in the public cloud could result in us not meeting our service-level commitments. In some cases, we may not have a contractual right with our public cloud providers that compensates us for any losses due to availability interruptions in the public cloud. Any of the above circumstances or events may harm our reputation, impair our ability to develop our platform and grow our base of users, subject us to financial penalties and liabilities under our service level agreements and otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. -21- Table of Contents If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative products and services, the use of our products and services may not develop, and, consequently, our business would suffer. Rapid, significant and disruptive technological changes impact the industries in which we operate, including developments in payment card tokenization, mobile, social commerce (i.e., ecommerce through social networks), authentication, cryptoassets (including distributed ledger and blockchain technologies), and near-field communication and other proximity payment technology, such as contactless payments. As a result, we expect new services and technologies to continue to emerge and evolve, and we cannot predict the effects of technological changes on our business. In addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we rely in part on third parties for the development of and access to new or evolving technologies. These third parties may restrict or prevent our access to, or utilization of, those technologies, as well as their platforms or products. In addition, we may not be able to accurately predict which technological developments or innovations will become widely adopted and how those technologies may be regulated. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the industries in which we operate will continue to emerge and may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. Developing and incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require substantial expenditures, take considerable time, and ultimately may not be successful. In addition, our ability to adopt new products and services and to develop new technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, payments networks, changes to laws and regulations, resistance to change from users, third-party intellectual property rights, or other factors. Our success will depend on our ability to develop and incorporate new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards if we are unable to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. If a large percentage of our revenue is concentrated with a small number of enterprise and/or loyalty partners, the loss of any such enterprise or loyalty partner would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The concentration of a significant portion of our business and transaction volume with a limited number of enterprise and/or loyalty partners and financial institutions exposes us disproportionately to the risk of any of those partners choosing to no longer partner with us, to the economic performance of such partners or their respective industries or to any events, circumstances, or risks affecting such partners or their respective industries. Any such loss could make our platform less appealing to existing and potential users. In addition, because our business model anticipates revenue synergies between our loyalty redemption, alternative payment method and digital asset marketplace aspects, the loss of a significant partner in one aspect would have negative repercussions across the three separate revenue streams. Accordingly, the loss of any significant enterprise or loyalty partner or financial institution relationship could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. Failure to deal effectively with fraud, fictitious transactions, bad transactions and negative consumer experiences could increase our loss rate and harm our business and could severely diminish user confidence in and use of our platform. It is expected that our platform will process a significant volume and dollar value of transactions daily. In the event that enterprise or loyalty partners do not fulfill their obligations to consumers on our platform, we may incur substantial losses as a result of claims from consumers. We will seek to recover such losses from the partner, but we may not fully recover them if the partner is unwilling or unable to pay. In addition, in the event of the bankruptcy or other business interruption of a partner that sells goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use (e.g., airline, cruise or concert tickets, custom-made goods and subscriptions), we could be liable to consumers who buy such goods or services, through chargebacks. Furthermore, any reserves we generate to offset transaction losses may be insufficient. We may also incur substantial losses from claims that a consumer did not authorize fraudulent or erroneous transactions. We have taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud on our platform, but these measures require continuous improvement and may not be effective in detecting and preventing fraud, particularly new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new or expanded product offerings. If these measures do not succeed, our business could be negatively impacted. Our failure to correctly cause the settlement of transactions running through our platform, or the failure of a third party to correctly follow instructions regarding settlement of such transactions, could harm our business. As our platform develops, we will be required to settle large amounts of user transactions on behalf of consumers and on behalf of or through enterprise and loyalty partners via their APIs. Our ability to correctly cause transaction -22- Table of Contents settlement requires a high level of internal controls and to some degree requires the involvement and technology of our enterprise and loyalty partners. Since our platform is in its development stage, we have neither an established operating history nor proven management experience in developing or maintaining the necessary internal controls. Our success will require significant public confidence in our ability to handle large and growing transaction volumes and the cooperation of our enterprise and loyalty partners. Any failure by us, or by any third party, to maintain the necessary controls or to effect or cause settlement of transactions running through our platform accurately and in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements could result in reputational harm, lead users to discontinue or reduce their use of our platform and result in significant penalties and fines, any of which could materially harm our business. If we experience rapid growth, it may place significant demands on our operational, administrative and financial resources and it may be difficult to sustain such growth. We have a relatively limited operating history even at our current scale and our projected growth in future periods following the launch of our consumer app exposes us to increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties. If we are unable to appropriately scale our operations to support such growth, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. As a result of our growth, we face significant challenges in: increasing the number of consumers on, and the volume of transactions facilitated through, our platform; maintaining and developing relationships with existing and new enterprise and loyalty partners and financial institutions; securing funding to maintain our operations and future growth; maintaining adequate financial, business and risk controls; implementing new or updated information and financial risk