Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Reverse Stock Split On April 29, 2024, following approval by our stockholders and Board of Directors (the "Board"), we effected a reverse stock split (the Reverse Stock Split) of our Class A Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (Class A Common Stock), and Class V Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (Class V Common Stock and collectively with the Class A Common Stock, the Common Stock), at a ratio of 1-for-25 (the Reverse Stock Split Ratio), effective as of 12:01 a.m. eastern time on April 29, 2024 (the Effective Time). Our Class A Common Stock began trading on a reverse-split adjusted basis on the NYSE as of the open of trading on April 29, 2024. The Reverse Stock Split has been retroactively applied to all share and per share information throughout this Form 10-K (unless otherwise noted). In connection with the Reverse Stock Split, we effected a corresponding and proportional adjustment to our authorized shares of Common Stock, such that the 1,000,000,000 authorized shares of Common Stock, consisting of 750,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock and 250,000,000 shares of Class V Common Stock were reduced proportionately to 40,000,000 authorized shares of Common Stock, consisting of 30,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock and 10,000,000 shares of Class V Common Stock. The par value per share of Common Stock, the par value per share of preferred stock and the number of authorized shares of preferred stock did not change. We did not issue fractional shares in connection with the Reverse Stock Split. Stockholders who would have otherwise held fractional shares because the number of shares of Class A Common Stock they held before the Reverse Stock Split was not evenly divisible by the Reverse Stock Split Ratio received cash (without interest, and subject to any required tax withholding applicable to a holder) in lieu of such fractional shares. To maintain parity with the Class A Common Stock, holders of paired interests (each of which is a combination of one share of Class V Common Stock and one common unit of Bakkt Opco Holdings, LLC (Opco) and is exchangeable into a share of Class A Common Stock on a one-for-one basis) were also correspondingly adjusted for the Reverse Stock Split and paid out in cash, applying the same per-share price, for any resulting fractional interests. The aggregate cash in respect of fractional interests was not material. Immediately after the Reverse Stock Split, each stockholders percentage ownership interest and proportional voting power remained unchanged, except for minor changes that resulted from the treatment of fractional shares. All of our outstanding warrants to purchase Class A Common Stock (Public Warrants) were proportionately adjusted as a result of the Reverse Stock Split in accordance with the terms of the warrants. Proportionate adjustments were also made to our employees and directors' outstanding equity awards, as well as to the number of shares issuable under our 2021 Omnibus Incentive Plan, as amended (the 2021 Omnibus Incentive Plan). -9- February 2024 Concurrent Registered Direct Offerings On February 29, 2024, we entered into a securities purchase agreement (the Third-Party Purchase Agreement) with certain institutional investors (the Third-Party Purchasers). The consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Third-Party Purchase Agreement (the Third-Party Closing) occurred on March 4, 2024. At the Third-Party Closing, pursuant to the Third-Party Purchase Agreement, we issued and sold to the Third-Party Purchasers an aggregate of 1,396,701 shares of our Class A Common Stock, Class 1 Warrants (Class 1 Warrants) to purchase an aggregate of 922,722 shares of Class A Common Stock, Class 2 Warrants (Class 2 Warrants) to purchase an aggregate of 922,722 shares of Class A Common Stock and Pre-Funded Warrants (Pre-Funded Warrants) to purchase an aggregate of 448,742 shares of Class A Common Stock. As of the date of this Form 10-K, holders have exercised all of the Pre-Funded Warrants. The offering of such securities was conducted in a registered direct offering (the Third-Party Offering). The purchase price of each share of Class A Common Stock and accompanying Class 1 Warrant or Class 2 Warrant (each, a Warrant) was $21.675 and the purchase price of each Pre-Funded Warrant and accompanying Warrant was $21.6725. In a concurrent registered direct offering with ICE (the ICE Offering, together with the Third-Party Purchasers offering, the Concurrent Offerings), we entered into a purchase agreement with ICE, pursuant to which we issued and sold to ICE an aggregate of 461,361 shares of Class A Common Stock, Class 1 Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 230,680 shares of Class A Common Stock, and Class 2 Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 230,680 shares of Class A Common Stock. The purchase price of each share of Class A Common Stock and accompanying Warrant in the ICE Offering was $21.675. In the ICE Offering, we closed the sale and issuance to ICE of 110,480 shares of Class A Common Stock, Class 1 Warrants to purchase up to 55,240 shares of Class A Common Stock and Class 2 Warrants to purchase up to 55,240 shares of Class A Common Stock, concurrently with the Third-Party Closing (the Initial ICE Closing). The closing of the issuance and sale of the remaining 350,880 shares of Class A Common Stock, Class 1 Warrants to purchase up to 175,440 shares of Class A Common Stock and Class 2 Warrants to purchase up to 175,440 shares of Class A Common Stock in the ICE Offering occurred on April 25, 2024, after we obtained stockholder approval for such issuances under the rules and regulations of the NYSE on April 23, 2024. Crypto Market Developments The U.S. cryptocurrency market evolved dramatically in 2024 and early 2025, marked by changes to the regulatory framework, technological innovations, and institutional change. Bitcoins price increased from approximately $39,500 on January 22, 2024 to a price exceeding $103,000 in January 2025. There were several regulatory and macroeconomic events that likely contributed to the rise in price, including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approving the first-spot bitcoin Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) in 2024. Within the year, Bitcoin ETFs accounted for over $105 billion in assets under management, and were a key contributor to bitcoin hitting all-time highs, with bitcoin ending the year at a market cap of $1.8 trillion. These positive trends have continued with the continued adoption of crypto assets across institutional and retail markets alike, and the election of President Trump, who has vocalized his support of the crypto industry and establishing the U.S. as a blockchain innovation hub. According to Security.orgs 2025 Cryptocurrency Adoption and Consumer Sentiment Report, as of January 31, 2025 an estimated 28% of U.S. adults owned crypto assets, reflecting a near doubling in adoption since 2021. We believe this significant and expedient market adoption of crypto assets reflect a maturing cryptocurrency market. -10- Crypto Assets and Services Offered by Bakkt Retail Customers We currently provide the following crypto-related services for retail customers. These services are provided through our clients which have a direct relationship with such customers and utilize our trading platform and custody services. crypto asset trading; custody services for the crypto assets supported for trading; and external transfers of crypto assets in jurisdictions where transfers are allowed. Bakkt Crypto facilitates transactions in, and provides services for, the crypto assets listed in the table below. -11- Supported For Crypto Asset Symbol Trading Transfers Aave AAVE Yes No Cardano ADA Yes Yes* Algorand ALGO Yes Yes* Arbitrum ARB Yes No Cosmos ATOM Yes Yes* Avalanche AVAX Yes Yes* Basic Attention Token BAT Yes No Bitcoin Cash BCH Yes Yes* BONK BONK Yes No Bitcoin BTC Yes Yes* Dogecoin DOGE Yes Yes* Polka dot DOT Yes Yes* EOS EOS Yes No Ethereum Classic ETC Yes Yes* Ethereum ETH Yes Yes* Fantom FTM** Yes No The Graph GRT Yes No Hedera HBAR Yes No Lido DAO LDO Yes No Chainlink LINK Yes Yes* Litecoin LTC Yes Yes* NEAR Protocol NEAR Yes No Optimism OP Yes No Pepe Coin PEPE Yes Yes* Shiba Inu SHIB Yes Yes* Solana SOL Yes Yes* Sui SUI Yes No TRUMP $TRUMP Yes Yes* Uniswap UNI Yes No USD Coin USDC Yes* Yes* WIF WIF Yes No Stellar XLM Yes No Ripple XRP Yes Yes* * Except for the State of New York ** Delisted January 19, 2025 Our management regularly considers whether to add or remove crypto assets available on our platform, consistent with our policies and procedures and developments in light of regulatory guidance. See Policies and Procedures Listing-Related Policies. Crypto Asset Trading -12- Our client agreements entitle us to receive recurring revenues in the form of platform fees from clients for the use of our platforms by their customers. Customers may purchase approved crypto assets directly through Bakkt Crypto utilizing: the customers fiat wallet (see Fig. 1 below); the customers Banking as a Service (BaaS) provider account (see Fig. 2 below); or the customers brokerage account (see Fig. 3 below). Customers may sell crypto assets through Bakkt Crypto. The sale proceeds from a sale can be directed to: the customers fiat wallet (see Fig. 4 below); the customers BaaS account (see Fig. 5 below); or the customers brokerage account (see Fig. 6 below). The funding source is specific to the client relationship through which the customer account was opened and is not specified by the individual customer account holder. For example, if a customer opens an account with a client where trades are funded via a BaaS relationship, all sale and purchase transaction-related funds will flow through the customers BaaS account. Customers submit all purchase and sale orders through the user interface of the client with which they have opened an account. With respect to customer purchase and sale orders, Bakkt Crypto operates as a riskless principal and offsets each customer order it fills by routing a corresponding order to a liquidity provider on a one-to-one basis. Bakkt Crypto settles its transactions with liquidity providers on a net basis. For more information, see Crypto Assets and Services Offered by Bakkt Crypto Asset Trading Liquidity Providers below. Customers can submit an order request to purchase crypto assets by specifying the dollar value or coin quantity that they wish to purchase. The clients user interface displays the estimated price or quantity, as applicable, as well as any transaction fees. Before sending a purchase order request, the client must verify that sufficient funds are available in the applicable customer funding source. If the customer account has sufficient funds, the client then sends the order to Bakkt Crypto. Upon receipt of the purchase order, Bakkt Crypto accepts and processes the purchase order and records any order fill transactions on Bakkt Cryptos internal ledger. Bakkt Crypto recognizes the revenue from markup and/or trade fees at this time in the flow using explicit journal types in the transaction ledgering. -13- If the customers funding source is a fiat wallet, Bakkt Crypto will debit the customers fiat wallet on its internal ledger. During the daily net settlement period fiat funds are transmitted from the for benefit of (FBO) account to the Bakkt Crypto transaction account. Fig. 1 Crypto Assets Purchase Through A Fiat Wallet If the customers funding source is a BaaS account, Bakkt Crypto sends a message to the client that a trade has been executed. The client then instructs the BaaS provider to transfer the funds from the customers BaaS account to its BaaS FBO account. The BaaS provider will debit the customers fiat wallet on its internal ledger. During the daily batch settlement period, fiat funds are transmitted from the BaaS FBO account to the Bakkt Crypto transaction account. A BaaS account is one where a client, through its banking relationships, offers customers the ability to withdraw fiat currency from, or transfer or deposit fiat currency into, the customers BaaS account with that client. In those instances, those customers would utilize their BaaS account to purchase supported crypto assets from Bakkt Crypto, as depicted in Figure 2, below, and to deposit the proceeds of sales of supported crypto assets to Bakkt Crypto, as depicted in Figure 6, below. Our client, not the Company, maintains the relationship with the BaaS provider and the Company is not itself regulated as a bank. -14- Fig. 2 Crypto Assets Purchase Through A Customers BaaS Account If the customers funding source is a brokerage account, Bakkt Crypto sends a message to ledger the funds from the customers brokerage account at the brokerages clearing firm to Bakkt Crypto brokerage account at the brokerages clearing firm. During the daily batch settlement period, fiat funds are transmitted from the Bakkt Crypto brokerage account to the Bakkt Crypto transaction account. Fig. 3 Crypto Assets Purchase Through A Customers Brokerage Account For sales, customers submit an order request via the client with which they have a relationship to Bakkt Crypto to sell crypto assets by specifying the dollar value or quantity that they wish to sell. For market orders, the client displays the estimated price or estimated quantity, which is inclusive of any markup. If the client is charging any trade fees, those will be displayed and included in the total trade value. Once confirmed by the customer, the order is then sent to Bakkt Crypto by the client. Upon receipt of the order, Bakkt Crypto accepts and processes the sale order and records the order fill transaction on Bakkt Cryptos internal ledger by recording a debit to the customers crypto asset account. -15- If the customers funding source is a fiat wallet, Bakkt Crypto will credit the customers fiat wallet on its internal ledger. During the daily batch settlement period, fiat funds are transmitted from the Bakkt Crypto transaction account to the FBO account. Fig. 4 Crypto Assets Sale with proceeds to the Customers Fiat Wallet Hosted by Bakkt Crypto If the customers funding source is a BaaS account, Bakkt Crypto sends a message to the client that a trade has been executed. The client then instructs the BaaS provider to transfer the funds from its BaaS FBO account to the customers BaaS account. The BaaS will credit the customers fiat wallet on its internal ledger. During the daily batch settlement period, fiat funds are transmitted from the Bakkt Crypto transaction account to the BaaS FBO account. Fig. 5 Crypto Assets Sale with Proceeds to the Customers BaaS Account If the customers funding source is a brokerage account, Bakkt Crypto sends a message to ledger the funds from the Bakkt Crypto brokerage account at the brokerages clearing firm to the customers brokerage account at the brokerages clearing firm. During the daily batch settlement period, fiat funds are transmitted from the Bakkt Crypto transaction account to the Bakkt Crypto brokerage account. -16- Fig. 6 Crypto Assets Sale with Proceeds to the Customers Brokerage Account Liquidity Providers Bakkt Crypto currently has relationships with several liquidity providers, with at least two providers servicing each supported crypto asset in order to provide consistent liquidity. Bakkt Crypto aggregates quotes from its liquidity providers by asset, side, price and size, which Bakkt Crypto uses to determine what quotes to provide, as principal, to its clients for display to customers. To fill customer orders as a riskless principal, the Bakkt Crypto platform compares customer orders to the aggregated best bid or offer prices quoted by Bakkt Cryptos liquidity providers. If a customer order is marketable, Bakkt Crypto routes an offsetting order for its own account, on a one-to-one basis, to the liquidity provider quoting the best price. Customers may place market orders or limit orders on the Bakkt Crypto platform. Market orders are, by definition, marketable when they are placed. As such, when a customer market order is received, Bakkt Crypto will offset that order by routing an order for its own account to the relevant liquidity provider on an immediate or cancel basis. Limit orders may be marketable when they are placed or may become marketable when the aggregated market price, as determined by Bakkt Cryptos proprietary internal system, aligns with the limit price selected by the customer. The Bakkt Crypto platform holds customer limit orders that are not marketable at the time they are placed on Bakkt Cryptos internal order book and evaluates such orders for marketability on an ongoing basis as liquidity providers change their best bid or offer prices. Should a customer limit order become marketable as the aggregated best price changes, the Bakkt Crypto platform would, at that point, place an offsetting order for its own account with a liquidity provider. Upon receipt of a fill confirmation from the liquidity provider servicing one of Bakkt Cryptos offsetting orders, Bakkt Crypto will fill the corresponding customer transaction out of its own account, as riskless principal. In other words, the Bakkt Crypto platform is structured to execute the offsetting order for Bakkt Cryptos own account prior to executing the corresponding customer order. Bakkt Crypto has written agreements with all of its liquidity providers. Under these agreements, Bakkt Crypto is granted access to proprietary trading platforms of the liquidity providers for the purpose of placing orders for purchase or sale of crypto assets. Bakkt Crypto acts as principal in such transactions with liquidity providers. Orders cannot be withdrawn, cancelled or amended. After the liquidity provider accepts the order, it issues a transaction confirmation. The parties then are obligated to deliver fiat currency and crypto assets according to the terms of the transaction. The agreements contain customary representations and warranties and confidentiality, limitation of liability and indemnification -17- provisions. The agreements do not have a set term and generally may be cancelled by either party for convenience on prior written notice of 30 to 60 days, with some agreements providing for no such notice obligations or a notice obligation of seven days. Settlement is conducted on a net basis on the blockchain supporting the crypto asset. Bakkt Crypto is not required to pre-fund any transactions with liquidity providers. Instead, Bakkt Crypto settles with liquidity providers on a daily basis; however, in instances where a liquidity providers settlement balance is less than an agreed upon notional dollar amount for a given token, Bakkt Crypto will settle with those liquidity providers on the last business day of the applicable month, or when the settlement balance exceeds those levels, if sooner. At settlement, fiat currency and crypto assets are exchanged to settle trading obligations from the previous period. In periods of heavy trading volumes, Bakkt Crypto and the liquidity providers may agree to perform more frequent settlements in order to decrease the exposure of unsettled transactions. Custody Services for the Crypto Assets Supported for Trading Bakkt Crypto has third-party custodial relationships with Coinbase Custody Trust Company (Coinbase Custody) and BitGo Trust Company (BitGo), which are currently used for custody and crypto asset transfers, where applicable. In addition, Bakkt Crypto also self-custodies select crypto assets (approximately 47% of total customer crypto assets were self-custodied as of December 31, 2024) to facilitate customer withdrawals utilizing the Fireblocks Vault service offered by Fireblocks Inc. (Fireblocks). Self-custodying customer crypto assets through the use of Fireblocks third-party custody software involves risks related to our reliance on the third party for certain services. These include the implementation of Secure Multi-Party Computation (MPC) key creation software, the provision of software that facilitates a Secure Transfer Environment for the transfer of crypto assets, and workflow authorization functionality ensuring that only Bakkt Crypto specified authorized persons are able to access the wallets for authorized purposes. Under the BitGo Custody Agreement, BitGo, at Bakkt Cryptos direction, establishes and maintains wallets for the storage of crypto assets, including cold wallets where BitGo holds all of the keys, and all of those keys are held in an offline storage platform (a Vault). BitGo serves as custodian of crypto assets stored in these wallets. BitGo is required to use reasonable best efforts to keep all custodial coins received by BitGo in safe custody on behalf of Bakkt Crypto and to keep all keys to the custodial wallet held by BitGo secure and to maintain at least one backup key. BitGo is also required to exercise all reasonable best efforts to prevent unauthorized access to or use of the keys held by BitGo to the custodial wallet. Bakkt Crypto does not have inspection rights under the BitGo Custody Agreement. The BitGo Custody Agreement had an initial one-year term and is renewing automatically for successive one-year periods unless either party provides notice to the other party of its intent not to renew at least 60 days prior to the expiration of the then-current term. Under the Coinbase Custody Agreement, Coinbase Custody provides Bakkt with a segregated custody account controlled and secured by Coinbase Custody to store certain crypto assets supported by Coinbase Custody on Bakkt Cryptos behalf. Crypto assets in the custodial account are not treated as general assets of Coinbase Custody, and Coinbase Custody is a fiduciary and custodian on Bakkt Cryptos behalf. Pursuant to the Coinbase Custody Agreement, Coinbase Custody securely stores crypto asset private keys in offline storage and has implemented and agreed to maintain a reasonable information security program with policies and procedures reasonably designed to safeguard its electronic systems and Bakkt Cryptos confidential information. Coinbase Custody is required to keep timely and accurate records as to the deposit, disbursement, investment and reinvestment of crypto assets and maintain accurate books and records of the custody services in accordance with applicable law and its own internal document retention policies. Bakkt Crypto does not have inspection rights under the Coinbase Custody Agreement. The Coinbase Custody Agreement remains effective until terminated by either party by providing at least 30 days prior written notice to the other party. -18- Pursuant to the License Agreement between Fireblocks and Bakkt Crypto, Fireblocks has granted Bakkt Crypto a non-exclusive, non-sub-licensable, non-transferable license to generate wallets through the Fireblocks Vault service. The service allows Bakkt Crypto to access and use crypto asset wallets that store private and public keys, interact with various blockchains and monitor its balances of crypto assets. Bakkt Crypto holds all crypto assets, including customer crypto assets and the immaterial inventory of crypto assets that Bakkt Crypto maintains for purposes such as facilitating blockchain fee payments and accommodating the impacts of rounding, in omnibus wallets. With respect to mode of storage, a small percentage of all crypto assets (generally not more than 2%) are held in warm or hot storage in order to facilitate daily settlement and customer withdrawals, while the vast majority of crypto assets are held in cold storage and accessed, as needed, to replenish the warm or hot wallets. The amounts of crypto assets held in warm/hot storage and cold storage are monitored daily by our custody operations team and reviewed by management on a monthly basis. Assets stored by Coinbase Custody and BitGo are held 100% in segregated cold storage. Segregated means that Bakkt Crypto customer assets are held in unique addresses on the respective blockchains and do not include assets of other BitGo or Coinbase clients, or of BitGo or Coinbase themselves. Both entities are SOC 1 certified. At this time, Bakkt Crypto does not utilize third parties other than Coinbase Custody and BitGo to hold customer crypto assets as custodian. To ensure the security of crypto assets, we do not disclose the geographic location where such assets are held or the identity of the persons who have access to them or the authority to release those assets from wallets. Private keys are held in controlled locations dispersed through the United States according to SOC 1 audit procedures to ensure appropriate security. There are dedicated team members responsible for daily reconciliation of wallet holdings. New members of our custody operations team are required to complete training and test simulations and are provided with a runbook on our custody procedures. New members of the custody operations team, like all our employees, also are subject to background checks and drug testing. The daily reconciliations prepared by the custody team are reviewed and analyzed by management monthly. Designated individuals within the custody operations team are responsible for the initiation and approval of outbound wallet transactions, as per our policies and procedures. Access rights are managed according to the principle of least privilege. These rights are maintained according to our IT security policy and subject to quarterly review by our IT security team. No insurance provider has inspection rights in respect of the crypto assets held in storage. External Transfers of Crypto Assets Other than in the State of New York, we make available to customers the ability to transfer crypto assets to and from external wallets. Because we have structured our platforms to be client-configurable in several aspects, each client has the discretion to enable this transfer feature for its customers. Crypto assets made available to customers residing in the State of New York will not be transferable to external wallets until that capability is approved by the NYDFS, which we are presently seeking. Other Potential Services As a B2B2C-oriented, client-led business, we continually refine our service offerings in light of client demand and our strategy in a manner that is compliant with applicable governance and regulatory requirements. For instance, in October 2024, we determined to de-prioritize offering the institutional grade custody solution offered by Bakkt Trust, and in March 2025, we agreed to the sale of Bakkt Trust to ICE. We also continually evaluate new product offerings that we believe are -19- logical expansions of our platform that will address client and customer expectations. For instance, we are presently planning to expedite our BakktX infrastructure to offer institutional clients a liquidity-only product that we are calling Liquidity As A Service, which we expect will leverage that infrastructure to enable other providers to access better crypto asset liquidity and pricing. Because of the rapidly changing regulatory environment, we may decide to undertake, or in some cases stop undertaking, potential service offerings in light of regulatory or compliance concerns. Policies and Procedures We and our subsidiaries have a comprehensive set of policies and procedures relating to crypto assets and crypto asset-related services. General Self-dealing and other potential conflicts of interest are addressed by our Insider Trading Policy, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Related Person Transactions Policy and Cryptocurrency Listing Policy. Employees are trained in these areas and attest to review these documents and policies upon hire and annually. Operationally, we implement segregation of duties and information tied to trading, listing and money movements, including protections for whistleblowers, compliance reviews, and blackout periods. Orders are entered into our systems where transactions are executed at best available prices with market makers and liquidity sources, designed to further insulate customer activities and prevent front-running and other illegal activities. Custody-Related Policies Bakkt Crypto makes use of third-party providers of custodial services, including Coinbase Custody Trust Company, LLC and BitGo, to hold customer crypto assets as custodian in cold storage as well as in hot or warm wallets as necessary. Bakkt Crypto also self-custodies customer crypto assets using the Fireblocks Vault service. All wallets hosted by Bakkt Crypto are omnibus wallets, which may contain both crypto assets held for the benefit of customers and the limited quantity of crypto assets held by Bakkt Crypto in its own account as inventory. Bakkt Crypto does not, and historically did not, operate a proprietary trading business. Listing-Related Policies We maintain crypto asset listing and delisting policies (the Listing Policies), which provide a framework for the review and approval of new crypto assets, and the continued offering of crypto assets for customer transactions. The Listing Policies were revised to accommodate new guidance issued by the NYDFS in November 2023, and were subsequently approved by the NYDFS. Material revisions to the Listing Policies require prior written approval from the NYDFS. The Listing Policies require the covered entity to undertake and document a risk assessment for each new crypto asset, which considers a number of risks, including legal and regulatory risk, and entails a review of the regulatory status of the crypto asset. Other risks covered by the risk assessment include integrity and legitimacy risk (i.e., risks associated with the creation, governance, issuance, and design of the crypto asset); reputational risk; liquidity, pricing, and manipulation risk; operational risk; cyber security risk; and illicit finance risk. The Listing Policies also provide for an evaluation of actual or potential conflicts of interest with respect to the potential listing of a crypto asset, and updates to policies and procedures to ensure that monitoring and control measures are in place to manage money laundering and financial crime risk associated with the crypto asset. -20- Under the Listing Policies, we utilize the risk assessment to consider various factors when making a decision to approve a new crypto asset for listing, including, among others, the appropriateness of the crypto asset to our business model and client base and whether the crypto asset is supported by other reputable markets or trading venues. In order to assess the regulatory status of a crypto asset, we consider the applicable laws, rules and case law, and other factors relevant to the determination of the security status of a crypto asset, and the positions of the SEC as expressed in various crypto-related enforcement actions and lawsuits. We may also solicit the opinion of outside counsel. We are required to monitor each of the crypto assets for material changes and for changes in the risk assessment conducted during the listing evaluation, and to ensure their offering remains consistent with our mission and values, general safety and soundness, and protection of customers. Should we determine that removal of a crypto asset is consistent with NYDFS guidance and regulations, and with safety and soundness, we will delist the crypto asset in accordance with the Listing Policies. The Listing Policies do not ascribe specific weighting to particular factors or inputs to be considered in connection with the potential listing or delisting of crypto assets. Sales and Marketing We market our platform to our clients. We do not engage in any direct-to-consumer marketing for the acquisition or engagement of customers. As part of client engagement, we may assist them in developing their crypto assets marketing strategy but any such strategy is ultimately executed by clients at their discretion. Clients may choose to market our crypto asset services to customers. In order to ensure we comply with applicable laws and regulations, we retain the right to review customer-facing marketing materials proposed to be used by clients. In specific instances, we require clients to disclose the services we provide and the related risks in such materials. We market our products and services to potential clients using multiple business-to-business channels, such as (i) Company-owned domains (e.g., our website and blog and its social media platforms), (ii) direct marketing, including email marketing and targeted digital advertisements to potential clients, and (iii) indirect marketing to potential clients via partnerships with existing clients and other third parties to promote branding and product access for potential clients through existing client channels. Since customers must agree to our terms of use in order to utilize the services offered by our platforms, as part of customer onboarding, we collect data about customers from the applicable client and/or customer in accordance with our privacy policy. This data is used to complete required processes (e.g., Customer Identification Program and KYC verification) and to service customers. We have built an extensive vendor network across various industries including financial services, travel and entertainment, retail and platform companies. While we have made headway building partnerships in these industries, there remain significant untapped growth opportunities in each area. For example, traditional financial institutions are facing increased competition from a broader group of fintech entrants. We expect that the pressure on them to provide innovative products and increased competition will continue to grow. We believe our ability to stand up capabilities within client ecosystems makes our platform an attractive solution for such financial institutions seeking an intuitive, tightly integrated, low risk solution to offer crypto and loyalty services. -21- We believe our growing network of clients provides potential for increased scale and substantiates the viability of our business plan. As our partnerships go live, we will offer to retail clients marketing resources to drive consumer adoption and usage of our platform. The successful activation and implementation of these partnerships are expected to be a significant driver for our transaction growth and associated revenue, including crypto trading revenue. We believe we will benefit from a positive network effect, where the value of our network will generally increase as we add new clients, vendors, customers and crypto to our platform. Insurance Matters We maintain types and amounts of insurance coverage that we believe are appropriate and consistent with customary industry practices. Our insurance policies cover employee-related accidents and injuries, property damage, business interruption, storm damage, facilities, cyber, crime and liability deriving from our activities. Our insurance policies also cover the employee and fiduciary liability of our directors and officers. The insurance policies include exclusions aimed at delineating and clarifying the scope of coverage. Examples of key customary exclusions include exclusions for losses arising from force majeure events or theft, fraud, or dishonest acts committed by any principal shareholders, partners or directors of the insured entity. Losses stemming from the network failure of a digital asset cryptographic protocol, as well as those associated with illegal activities like money laundering, are expressly excluded. We may also be covered for certain liabilities by insurance policies issued to third parties, including, but not limited to, our dealers and vendors. To protect against loss to or theft of cryptocurrency assets, we maintain $230 million of insurance coverage, which includes $200 million of cold storage coverage and $30 million of hot storage coverage. The $30 million of hot storage coverage is excess of a $500,000 each loss retention. There is no retention applicable to the $200 million of cold storage coverage. Our cold storage insurance coverage had an initial three-month term, which expired in February 2025, and is now on a month-to-month basis through November 2025. Our hot wallet insurance coverage is in place until August 2025. All supporting insurers maintain a minimum A.M. Best rating of A. Loyalty We offer a full spectrum of supplier content through configurable, white-label e-commerce storefronts that clients can make available for their customers to purchase via redemption of loyalty points. Our redemption catalog spans a variety of rewards categories including travel, gift cards and merchandise, including a unique Apple product and services storefront. Our travel solution offers a retail e-commerce booking platform with direct supplier integrations, as well as a U.S.-based call center for live-agent booking and servicing. Our platform provides a unified shopping experience that is built to seamlessly extend our clients loyalty strategies and user experience for their loyalty programs. Functionality includes a mobile-optimized user interface, numerous configurations to support diverse program needs, promotional campaign services, comprehensive fraud protection capabilities and the ability to split payments across both loyalty points and credit cards. We recognize that businesses want to offer consumers choice, innovation and a frictionless experience, and our platform and service offerings were constructed with this in mind. We have thoughtfully built a unique and powerful platform with end-to-end services, including easily consumable technology services, customer support and compliance infrastructure, for our clients. -22- Our Clients Our clients include financial institutions, fintechs, broker-dealers, neobanks, registered investment advisers, funds, merchants, and other businesses. Our crypto-related capabilities facilitate new asset acquisition opportunities for their customers, in addition to the secure safekeeping of acquired crypto assets and crypto assets stored on behalf of institutional clients. Our loyalty-related capabilities deepen our clients relationships with their customers by strengthening the value proposition of their loyalty programs. Our thousands of redemption options enable our clients to meet their customers where they are, deliver the products and services they desire, and meet the expectations of next generation audiences by offering crypto redemption options. Our dependence on a limited number of clients exposes us disproportionately to the risk of any of those clients choosing to no longer partner with us, to the economic performance of such clients or their respective industries or to any events, circumstances, or risks affecting such clients or their respective industries. For example, our clients, Webull and Bank of America, have notified us that they will not be renewing their respective agreements with us when the current term of the applicable agreement ends. Webull represented 74% and 73% of our Crypto services revenues in the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and Bank of America represented approximately 16% and 18% of our loyalty services revenue in the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. For more information, please see our risk factors described in Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business, Finances and Operations. Revenue Model We primarily generate revenue when clients or their customers use our services to buy, sell and/or store crypto or transact in loyalty points on our platform in the following key areas: Subscription and service revenue. We receive a recurring subscription revenue stream from client platform fees as well as service revenue from software development fees and call center support. Transaction revenue. We generate transaction revenue from crypto buy/sell transactions, where we charge a markup on both legs of the transaction, and through loyalty redemption volumes, where we earn a margin from the difference of the value of the points being redeemed and the cost of fulfilling the redemption request. Our loyalty revenue has seasonality and is typically higher in the fourth quarter, driven by holiday spending and the travel bookings. Revenue generated from our crypto services was immaterial prior to our acquisition of Bakkt Crypto in April 2023; however, revenue from crypto services is now a significant driver of our business, and we expect Crypto services revenue to continue to increase as we grow our client base and our customers. Growth Strategy We go to market using a platform strategy, driven by our clients. We partner with leading companies and expect to grow customers on our platform through those relationships, in addition to our direct institutional clients. We have already built an extensive network of clients across numerous industries including financial institutions, merchants and travel and entertainment. These clients include Webull, Public.com, Blockchain.com, and Swan Bitcoin. We believe this strategy will enable us to add transacting accounts and volume more quickly and more efficiently than a direct-to-consumer model, given our limited operating history and the novelty of the crypto space for some customers. -23- As part of this approach, we have developed our platform to be flexible and scalable to accommodate how different clients may want to implement our solutions. Depending on each clients specific needs and objectives, that client can choose to add one, some or all of our capabilities, and can also choose the manner in which those capabilities are enabled. Clients can choose to fully or partially embed our capabilities directly through Bakkt hosted user interfaces. We believe our growth will come from adding clients and correspondingly, their customers, and increasing transaction activity as well as strategic acquisitions. Leveraging Bakkt Cryptos proprietary trading platform and existing relationships with liquidity providers, we provide a wide range of assets and competitive pricing to our clients. Our growth strategies include the following: Adding clients. We are focused on continuing to build strong client relationships. We believe acquiring customers through our clients is an efficient and scalable way to grow our business. Bakkt Crypto has significantly expanded our crypto client base into a number of new and rapidly growing client verticals, such as fintechs, trading and brokerage platforms and neobanks. Adding customers. We are focused onactivating our existing clients and supporting our clients in marketing campaigns to drive new customer acquisition and engagement of existing customers. Expanding our offering. We aim to increase the breadth and depth of our product offering in order to increase its appeal to clients and customers. We continue to focus on improving our retail product offerings as we believe that it will make our platform more appealing to clients and customers. For example, Bakkt Crypto accelerated our product road map by providing new capabilities to our platform including the addition of 17 coins to our platform in 2024 and deposit and withdrawal functionality in jurisdictions where permitted. The integration of Bakkt Crypto into our existing crypto trading business enabled direct fiat funding capabilities, user management and onboarding and compliance functionality, each of which continues to be enhanced with additions such as wire funding support and, subject to applicable regulatory approvals, support for entity accounts, which have materially expanded the market for our trading capabilities from individual consumers to include businesses and trust entities. Over time, we expect to continue to invest in our business to provide best-in-class products and services. Some of those longer-term planned enhancements include: Crypto enhancements.We expect to expand our crypto capabilities to products and services that we believe will appeal to both our clients and customers. By increasing the acceptance of crypto investing in the institutional space, we believe that these additional products can further increase interest in crypto generally among retail consumers, which will ultimately benefit our platform. For instance, we expect BakktX to enable us to offer crypto institutions competitive and customizable liquidity. Evaluate additional strategic acquisitions. We will continue to be opportunistic and evaluate strategic acquisitions that have compelling benefits for our business. -24- How We Are Different The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, rapidly changing and highly innovative. We believe that we are well-positioned given our unique ability to provide all of our capabilities under one platform, combined with our institutional-grade, secure and licensed infrastructure. We believe this provides a competitive differentiation that would be difficult to replicate. We compete with a wide range of parties, including crypto exchanges, custodians, payment systems, and loyalty program redemption solutions, for similar services. This market is growing and changing rapidly, so we expect that we will continue to see increased competition with new entrants into the space or existing competitors expanding their product offerings. We believe that our business model provides us with significant competitive advantages, including: Multi-faceted approach to security and compliance. We enable responsible and secure access to crypto for our clients. Our compliance measures, controls and risk management practices are at the core of how we operate. Our infrastructure provides multiple layers of protection and provides heightened security and compliance. As a public company, we are subject to significant and comprehensive regulations. Across our entities, we possess a BitLicense from NYDFS and state money transmitter licenses in all jurisdictions that we believe are required for us to operate our business. We have policies and programs that govern crypto-related activity, such as a cyber security program, information security policy, global AML policy, and U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (BSA)/Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the U.S. Department of the Treasury program. These measures are all designed to protect our clients and stockholders. Client-led strategy. We seek to leverage our existing and new client relationships with leading brands to add customers to our platform. By partnering with these brands and their existing customer bases, we believe customers are more likely to embrace the new asset classes offered on our platform. We also believe that, as a relatively new brand, this approach will allow us to scale customers and revenue more quickly. Institutional-grade platform. Our platform architecture is engineered to natively support crypto across a wide range of classes, with scalability and regulatory and compliance controls. Our platform was designed with these principles in mind to provide safe, reliable infrastructure for our clients offering our platform to retail consumers in their everyday use. We believe that it also serves as a springboard for additional products and services, particularly with respect to the institutional crypto space. Trusted and scalable capabilities. Our approach, built to scale with technology, privacy, security and compliance at its core, is informed by our team's decades of collective experience. Our platform moves a significant amount of volume across asset classes every day. We believe these pillars provide confidence to customers and clients that participate in our ecosystem. Sales and Marketing Our go-to-market strategy is business-to-business-to-consumer, or B2B2C, in which we acquire customers primarily via client relationships. We believe our focused approach on building scalable partnerships with valued brands will drive strong growth in customers. Our goal is to provide our clients with opportunities to leverage Bakkts capabilities to drive mutually beneficial customer acquisition and engagement. Customers of our crypto clients access our platform -25- through a client environment. Similarly, customers of our loyalty clients may only access our redemption storefronts through clients loyalty program user experience. Our marketing efforts are focused on business-to-business (B2B) activities to acquire new clients. We utilize multiple B2B channels, such as Bakkt-owned domains (e.g., our website and blog and its social media platforms) and direct marketing to potential clients, such as email marketing and targeted digital advertisements. We also engage in indirect marketing to potential clients via partnerships with existing clients and other third parties to promote branding and product access for potential clients through existing client channels. Customer Care Our customer service channels are at the core of our loyalty and travel redemption offerings to clients, providing seamless and easy-to-leverage support for the wide array of loyalty and travel redemption transactions on our platform. We strive to provide our clients and their customers with a high-quality experience. We provide customer service that is designed to meet the requirements of our clients. Our customer service agents undergo a rigorous training program and are continually monitored and trained as new capabilities are added to the platform. New clients are able to leverage our deep expertise in customer support as they roll out new offerings to their customer bases. Technology Our core platforms were built in-house and are maintained by our skilled technical staff who have industry expertise across crypto and loyalty solutions. We leverage a modern software and cloud infrastructure stack to offer off-the-shelf or bespoke solutions for our clients, depending on their needs. Additionally, our platform implements strategies and controls to enable KYC, AML, and other anti-fraud measures to combat financial crime. Our modern embedded web experiences and API-driven platform allow us to partner and easily integrate with clients, including through the following: Our crypto solutions operate in an institutional-grade crypto trading platform, anchored by our trade execution engine, which was built with speed and scale at its core to deliver equities-grade trading performance to provide liquidity for the purchase and sale of crypto to our clients. Via standard SSO and API integrations, our multi-storefront loyalty redemption platform is provided as SaaS and powers rewards redemption for several of the top loyalty programs in the US. The platform is built upon highly scalable proprietary technology and is directly integrated with dozens of suppliers for real-time redemption of merchandise, gift cards and travel services. Additionally, our multi-location call center teams leverage our platform to provide agent assisted transactions and redemption servicing. Cybersecurity Each of our products is architected, deployed, and managed through a common controls environment designed to protect our customers' confidential information using a combination of administrative, physical, and technical controls. We maintain a comprehensive cyber security program, managed by a dedicated team of security professionals, leveraging multiple layers of defenses to protect our loyalty and crypto clients consumer data, as well as crypto wallets, including crypto that is kept in custody. Our administrative, technical, and physical controls include the use of separation of duties, physical and logical access controls, biometrics, hardware security modules, advanced cryptographic algorithms, dedicated -26- security monitoring, and other controls to protect our environment and restrict unauthorized access. Additionally, we regularly utilize independent external parties to assess and provide added assurance that our products are designed appropriately and operating effectively. We currently maintain independent SSAE-18 SOC 1 Type II and SOC 2 Type II attestation reports for our crypto platform and SOC 2 Type II attestation reports for our loyalty platform. We also maintain compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) for in-scope systems where cardholder data is stored or processed. We comply with NYDFS cybersecurity requirements which impose requirements related to establishing a detailed cybersecurity plan, enacting a comprehensive cybersecurity policy, and maintaining an ongoing reporting system for cybersecurity events. Regulation International, federal and state laws and regulations apply to many key aspects of our business. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with these requirements may result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approved status, regulatory or governmental investigations, administrative enforcement actions, sanctions, civil and criminal liability, private litigation, reputational harm, or constraints on our ability to continue to operate. We operate in a regulatory environment that is evolving rapidly and increasing in scope. For example, the new presidential administration and Congress have each taken initial steps to change regulation and provide additional regulatory clarity around crypto assets and transactions. As such, it is possible that current or future laws or regulations could be enacted, interpreted or applied in a manner that would support, prohibit, alter, or impair our existing or planned products and services, or that could require costly, time-consuming, or otherwise burdensome compliance measures, or could force us to change our business quickly to successfully compete with new or existing entrants in the industry. Further, additional laws and regulations may apply to our businesses as we expand outside of the United States in the future. For more information, please see our risk factors described in Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Crypto and Risks Related to Regulation, Taxation and Laws. Regulation of Our Money Transmission Business. Bakkt Crypto maintains a money transmitter license in each jurisdiction in which it operates that requires such a license for its activities. In all other jurisdictions where Bakkt Crypto operates, we have established with the applicable licensing body that a money transmitter license is not required at this time. We will comply with new license requirements as they arise. Bakkt Crypto is also registered as a Money Services Business with FinCEN. These licenses and registrations subject us to, among other things, record-keeping requirements, reporting requirements, bonding requirements, limitations on the investment of customer funds, and examination by state and federal regulatory agencies. These licensing laws also address matters such as change in control, and regulatory approval of controlling shareholders, directors, and senior management of the licensed entity. Regulation of Our Virtual Currency Business. We are subject in certain jurisdictions to licensing and regulatory requirements as a result of offering our clients the ability to aggregate, buy, sell, convert, and send virtual currency through our platform. Consequently, we must comply with laws, rules and regulations promulgated by federal or state regulators in those jurisdictions in order to provide our services, including requirements related to capitalization, consumer protection, anti-money laundering, disclosure, reporting and examination, as well as supervisory guidance and requirements. Bakkt Crypto also has a virtual currency license (BitLicense) from the NYDFS, which subjects it to NYDFS's oversight with respect to business activities conducted in New York State and with New York residents, and a Louisiana virtual currency business activity license, which subjects it to oversight by the Louisiana Office of Financial Institutions with respect to its virtual currency business activity in Louisiana State and with Louisiana residents. In October 2023, the governor of California signed into law the -27- Digital Financial Assets Law (DFAL), which establishes a required licensing framework administered by the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation (DFPI) for entities engaged in digital financial asset business activity in the state of California. We expect that our business will require licensure under the DFAL and will therefore take steps to obtain necessary licenses prior to the enactments effective date of July 1, 2026. The DFAL provides that the DFPI may issue a conditional license to companies, such as our subsidiaries, that maintain licenses to conduct virtual currency business activity in New York or hold a charter as a New York limited purpose trust company with approval to conduct a virtual currency business under New York law. We will continue to monitor and review guidance from the DFPI clarifying the enactments scope and interpretation. The laws and regulations applicable to crypto are rapidly evolving and subject to interpretation and change. For instance, the SEC has indicated in various enforcement actions and other contexts that it considers certain crypto assets to constitute securities. In early 2025, however, some of the companies that were subject to such enforcement actions have disclosed that the SEC has informed them that those enforcement actions are being closed and will not be pursued. The SEC has yet to issue any formal regulation on this point, though it has put forth some guidance on overarching frameworks and relevant factors to consider in this analysis, and the recent formation of a Crypto Task Force at the SEC signals potentially significant change and additional regulatory clarity. Based on these changes, our crypto services offered through our platform may become subject to more, less, or changed regulation. Privacy and Information Cybersecurity Regulations. Aspects of our operations or business are subject to laws and regulation in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions relating to privacy, data protection and cybersecurity. Accordingly, we publish our privacy policies and terms of service, which describe our practices concerning the use, protection, transmission, and disclosure of information. As our business continues to expand in the United States and beyond, and as laws and regulations continue to be passed and their interpretations continue to evolve in numerous jurisdictions, additional laws and regulations may become relevant to us. Regulatory authorities around the world are considering numerous legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy, data protection and cybersecurity. In addition, the interpretation and application of these laws and regulations in the United States and elsewhere are often uncertain and in a state of flux. As our business continues to develop and expand, we continue to monitor the additional rules and regulations that may become relevant. For additional information regarding these laws and regulations and related risks, please see Risk Factors Risks Related to Regulation, Taxation, and Laws Complying with evolving privacy and other data related laws and requirements may be expensive and force us to make changes to our business, and failure to comply with such laws and requirements could result in substantial harm to our business. Consumer Protection Regulation. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and other federal and state regulatory agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission, broadly regulate financial products, enforce consumer protection laws applicable to credit, deposit, prepaid products, and payments, and other similar products. Such agencies have broad consumer protection mandates, and they promulgate, interpret, and enforce laws, rules and regulations, including with respect to unfair, deceptive, and abusive acts and practices that may impact or apply to our business. For example, under federal and state financial privacy laws and regulations, we must provide notice to consumers of our policies on sharing non-public information with third parties, among other requirements. In addition, under the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, we are required to disclose the terms of, and any fees applicable to, our electronic fund transfer services to consumers prior to their use of the service, among other requirements. -28- Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Regulation. We are subject to AML laws and regulations in the United States, including the BSA, as amended, and its implemented regulations enforced by FinCEN, as well as laws designed to prevent the use of the financial systems to facilitate terrorist activities. We have implemented a comprehensive AML compliance program designed to prevent our platform from being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illicit activity. Our program is also designed to prevent our platform from being used to facilitate business in countries, or with persons or entities, included on designated lists promulgated by OFAC and equivalent authorities in other countries. Our AML compliance program is comprised of policies, procedures, reporting protocols, including reporting requirements for suspicious transactions, and internal controls, including the designation of a compliance officer, training for employees, and a regular independent review of the program. It is designed to address applicable legal and regulatory requirements and to assist in managing risk associated with money laundering and terrorist financing. Indirect Regulatory Requirements. We maintain relationships with certain clients, including banks and other financial institutions in the United States, that are regulated by state, local and federal agencies. Because of these relationships, we may be subject to regulation by these institutions regulators, as well as examination should these regulators exercise their authorities under applicable law. In addition, the federal banking agencies have well established supervisory guidance for banks with respect to their relationships with third parties, which they updated in 2023. This guidance applies to us and our bank clients relative to the totality of our relationship, including with respect to strategies and goals, financial condition, risk management, information security and systems, operational resilience, audit rights, and performance benchmarks. We generally seek to account for these types of indirect regulatory requirements in our commercial agreements. We also have clients that are investments advisors. The SEC has recently proposed changes to its investment adviser custody rule, which could affect the terms upon which we can offer custody services to those clients. Escheatment and Unclaimed Property Regulations. There is regulatory uncertainty regarding how states and jurisdictions treat virtual currencies and other crypto assets under unclaimed property laws and regulations. Unclaimed property laws, as may be applicable, require us to report and to remit certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time. We have policies and procedures designed to help us comply with these laws. Intellectual Property The protection of our intellectual property and all corresponding rights throughout the world, including our trademarks, service marks, trade dress, logos, trade names, domain names, goodwill, patents, copyrights, works of authorship (whether or not copyrightable), software and trade secrets, know-how, and proprietary and other confidential information, together with all applications, registrations, renewals, extensions, improvements and counterparts in connection with any of the foregoing, is important to the success of our business. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by filing applications in various patent, trademark and other government offices, and relying on applicable laws and regulations in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We have sought to register our core brands as domain names and as trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and a large number of other jurisdictions. We also have in place an active program to continue to secure, police and enforce trademarks, service marks, trade dress, logos, trade names, and domain names that correspond to our brands in markets of interest. We have filed patent applications in the U.S. covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology and new innovations. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights where appropriate when offering or procuring products and services. We have routinely entered into confidentiality and invention disclosure and assignment agreements with our -29- employees and contractors, and non-disclosure agreements with external parties with whom we conduct business to control access to, and use and disclosure of, our proprietary information. Human Capital Our employees are essential in propelling our success. We hold our employees to high standards, both in work product and ethics, and aim to create a culture of accountability and results. Our performance expectations and attributes empower our company. They reflect how we expect employees to operate, collaborate and make decisions. At Bakkt, we strive to challenge the status quo with new ideas, have open and honest communications, appreciate our diversity of thought, take ownership and accountability for delivering valuable results and act with integrity, respect and reliability. In a complex industry, it is critical for employees to act ethically. We provide regular training to help our employees understand and comply with the many regulations in our industry and with our company policies. We expect managers to set the tone for their teams and to lead by example, including by embracing ethical behavior and sharing its importance with their team. Managers are expected to help their teams understand our company policies and encourage them to report any violations of policy or law. As a company, we help ensure Bakkts non-retaliation policy is strictly followed. At Bakkt, we understand that our success is built by operating as a unified company one culture and team across the crypto landscape, with a focus on growth and innovation. We are committed to diversity throughout our company. It is our policy that employees are treated, and treat each other, with fairness, respect and dignity. We embrace our employees differences, while valuing a diverse, inclusive and safe workplace. We aim to promote diversity and inclusion through a number of employee engagement events including internal and external speaker sessions to foster learning on relevant and important topics. Our employees come from a wide variety of backgrounds to work toward a common vision for the Company. Our CEO brings our teams together in bi-weekly all hands calls and sends weekly email updates for transparency regarding our company strategy and goals. We strive to hold employees accountable for their work performance while providing incentives for excellence in their contributions to the Company. We encourage open collaboration to put out the best ideas and solutions to better adapt to changing markets and other challenges Bakkt faces. As of December 31, 2024, we had a total of 559 employees, all of whom were full-time employees, and are located in the United States. We also engage temporary employees, consultants and employers of record as needed to support our operations. Collectively, approximately 15% of our workforce is dedicated to engineering, design, or product roles. Our core locations are Alpharetta, GA, Scottsdale, AZ and New York City, NY. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Available Information Our website is http://www.bakkt.com, and our investor relations website is located at https://investors.bakkt.com, where we make available, free of charge, our Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of -30- 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We use our investor relations website to post important information for investors, including news releases, analyst presentations, and supplemental financial information, and as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. We use these channels as well as social media to communicate with the public about our company. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Accordingly, investors should monitor our investor relations website as well as the social media channels listed on our investor relations website. The information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. -31- Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Form 10-K, including the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes, before making a decision to invest in our securities. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that you should consider before investing in our securities. These risks are described more fully below and include, but are not limited to, risks relating to the following: Risks Related to Our Business, Finances and Operations Our business model is newly developed and may encounter additional risks and challenges as it grows. Our platform has been designed to meet the needs of our clients and customers, and as such we must continually invest in our platform to meet their evolving needs is being further developed as we look to grow our business. We have limited operating history and a history of operating losses. If we are unable to attract, retain or grow our relationships with our existing clients, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Some of our current and prospective clients require the approval of their own regulators in order to deploy our solutions, and if they are unable to obtain those approvals on a timely basis, or at all, our results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. A large percentage of our revenue is concentrated with a single client that has notified us it will not be renewing its agreement with us. The loss of this client will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Moreover, because of our B2B2C go-to-market model, the loss of any clientregardless of the reasonincreases the risk that the customers that originally emanated from that client will transition to another provider or stop doing business with us, which would harm our business. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future investments, strategic transactions, or acquisitions and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. In the past, we have identified conditions and events that raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and it is possible that we may identify conditions and events in the future that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Risks Related to Crypto Disruptions in the crypto market subject us to additional risks, including the risk that banks may not provide banking services to us. -32- There may be a perception among regulators and others that crypto is used to facilitate illegal activity such as fraud, money laundering, tax evasion and ransomware scams. Crypto custodial solutions and related technology, including our systems and custodial arrangements, are subject to risks related to a loss of funds due to theft, employee or vendor sabotage, security and cybersecurity risks, system failures and other operational issues the loss, destruction or other compromise of our private keys and a lack of sufficient insurance. Our failure to safeguard and manage our customers crypto could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Crypto does not have extensive historical precedent and distributed ledger technology continues to rapidly evolve. We may encounter technical issues in connection with the integration of supported crypto assets and changes and upgrades to their underlying networks, which could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Regulation, Taxation and Laws We are subject to extensive government regulation, oversight, licensure and appraisals and our failure to comply could materially harm our business. The regulatory regimes governing blockchain technologies and crypto are uncertain and may change rapidly. New regulations or policies may alter or significantly adversely affect our business practices with respect to crypto assets, and we may need to adapt our business to regulatory change quickly to succeed. A crypto assets status as a security in any relevant jurisdiction is currently subject to a high degree of uncertainty, and if crypto assets on our platform are later determined to be securities, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny, investigations, fines, and other penalties, which may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are subject to significant litigation risk and risk of regulatory liability and penalties. Any current or future litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. Risks Related to Information Technology and Data Actual or perceived cyberattacks, security incidents, or breaches could result in serious harm to our reputation, business and financial condition. Risks Related to Risk Management and Financial Reporting If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we may be unable to produce timely and accurate financial statements, which could have a material effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Securities The trading market for our securities has in the past been and could in the future be impacted by market volatility. Stock run-ups, divergences in valuation ratios relative to those seen during traditional markets, high short interest or short squeezes, and strong and atypical retail investor interest in the markets may impact the demand for our securities. Risks Related to Our Business, Finances and Operations -33- Our business model is newly developed and may encounter additional risks and challenges as it grows. Our vision is that our clients will utilize our platform as the go-to solution enabling customers to transact in crypto and loyalty points. Most of the assets that we have incorporated and intend to incorporate into our platform in the future are already being handled by incumbent providers. There can be no assurance that our platform will gain the acceptance of clients or customers or generate the anticipated synergies. It is difficult to predict the preferences and requirements of clients or customers, and our platform, design and technology may not appeal to such clients or customers, or may be incompatible with new or emerging forms of crypto or related technologies. Failure to achieve acceptance would impede our ability to develop and sustain a commercial business. We primarily generate revenue when customers transact in crypto and loyalty points on our platform. Our success depends on bringing on clients and on the transaction volume from customers. If we are not able to bring new clients onto the platform, many of whom will pay us subscription fees for our platform services, our revenue and business concern could be negatively impacted. Additionally, much of our future revenue depends on transaction fees earned from customers transacting in crypto and loyalty points and the margin we charge in connection with those transactions. If we are not able to continue to grow our base of clients, we will not be able to continue to grow our customer base, our revenues or our business, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations and may cause us to be unable to continue as a going concern. The attractiveness of our platform depends upon, among other things: the number and variety of assets and other capabilities in which customers can transact through our platform; our reputation, as well as clients and customers experience and satisfaction with, and trust and perception of, our platform; technological innovation; regulatory compliance and data security; and services and products offered by competitors. Moreover, clients may choose to contract with other providers of services that are competitive with ours. If we fail to retain existing clients, attract new clients, or continually expand usage and transaction volume on our platform, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be materially and adversely affected. We will have both increased financial and reputational risks if there is a failure to launch one or more features, or if the launch of a new feature is unsuccessful. Also, there can be no assurance that we will receive support from clients to launch features as planned or that we will operate as anticipated. We also are subject to requirements to obtain regulatory approvals, including, for example, to add new crypto assets, products, and functionalities to our platform, and may be required to obtain additional licenses and/or consultation with or approval of regulators to add, modify or discontinue certain aspects of our business model, which could lead to delays or other complexities in effectuating such changes and have a material adverse effect on our business and plan of operations. Further, our business model entails numerous risks, including risks relating to our ability to: manage the complexity of our business model to stay current with the industry and new technologies; successfully enter new categories, markets and jurisdictions in which we may have limited or no prior experience; -34- integrate into multiple distributed ledger technologies as they currently exist and as they evolve; successfully develop and integrate products, systems and personnel into our business operations; obtain and maintain required licenses and regulatory approvals for our business; and respond to, and comply with, the evolving regulatory landscape for crypto and crypto platforms. For example, we plan to expand our platform to offer stablecoin-based payment service under the Cooperation Agreement with DTR. While we believe such expanded offerings will be beneficial in our attempts to attract and retain clients and to increase transaction volumes and assets under custody, the interest level of our clients and their customers in these offerings may be less than we expect or market adoption may be slower than we anticipate, any of which may be adverse to our business and prospects. Our platform has been designed to meet the needs of our clients and customers, and as such we must continually invest in our platform to meet their evolving needs we look to grow our business. Any failure by us to successfully execute on the development of our platform would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our platform is in the early stages of release and will be further refined and developed, and certain areas of our platform are still under development and largely untested on a commercial scale. We are working to expand our service offerings, including, for example, utilizing BakktX technology for an institutionally-focused ECN. Our platform will require additional development in order to add all of the additional functionalities and features planned by our management and activate our service offerings. There can be no assurance that the additional functionalities and features currently planned for our platform will be successfully developed in a timely fashion or at all. The addition of functionalities to our platform may require regulatory approvals, may increase our regulatory obligations and the degree of regulatory scrutiny we face, and may make regulatory compliance more complex and burdensome. We will have both increased financial and reputational risks if there is a failure to launch one or more functionalities, or if the launch of a new functionality is unsuccessful. Also, there can be no assurance that we will receive the necessary regulatory approvals or support from clients to launch features as planned or that we will operate as anticipated. Any problems or delays that we encounter with the development or operation of our platform, including technical, legal and regulatory problems, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a limited operating history and a history of operating losses, which make it difficult to forecast our future results of operations. Further, we have reduced, and may in the future further reduce, our operating expenses in the foreseeable future, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability to absorb our targeted expense base. We were founded in 2018 and have experienced net losses in the periods from inception through December 31, 2024. For example, our revenue was $3,490.2 million and $780.1 million in the years ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively, and we generated net losses of $103.5 million and $225.8 million in the years ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. You should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to accurately forecast our future results of operations is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. Prior to the Bakkt Crypto acquisition in April 2023, our historical revenue was achieved largely as the result of a white-labeled loyalty redemption product offered by the Bakkt Loyalty Solutions business, and therefore should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Because of our limited operating history and the fact that our current and historical revenue prior to the acquisition of Bakkt Crypto was largely not derived from our current business model, our future revenue growth is difficult to predict. Even if we experience strong revenue growth, in future periods our revenue or revenue growth could decline for a number of reasons, including slowing demand for our platform, cyclicality in crypto trading -35- activity, increased competition, changes to technology, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, or our failure, for any reason, to take advantage of growth opportunities. We have also encountered, and will continue to encounter, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks and uncertainties described below. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties and our future revenue growth are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations, and our business could suffer. Despite reducing operating expenses in 2024, we may not be able to achieve the operating expense levels that align with our revenues and may not achieve or, if achieved, maintain profitability. Furthermore, we intend to continue to invest significant resources to further develop our platform. If we are unable to achieve the revenue growth that we expect from these investments, further reduce our operating expenses, or achieve profitability, it would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and the value of our business and our securities may significantly decrease. Substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions that occur during that quarter, which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant fluctuations in our operating results. Our quarterly results, including revenue, expenses, consumer metrics and other key metrics, are derived from transactions that occur during that quarter. Accordingly, our quarterly results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control. For example, we saw a significant increase in crypto transactions in the fourth quarter of 2024 relative to prior periods. It is difficult for us to forecast accurately the level or source of our revenues, earnings and expenses, and the results for any one quarter are not necessarily an indication of future performance or expenses. Moreover, because of these fluctuations, our quarterly results may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. If our revenue, expenses, or key metrics in future quarters fall short of the expectations of our investors and financial analysts, the price of our securities could be adversely affected. Other factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly results include: our ability to attract and retain clients and generate transaction volume from customers; market sentiment regarding cryptocurrencies; our ability to negotiate agreements with vendors, partners and service providers on terms that are favorable to us, if at all; transaction volume and mix; rates of repeat transaction and fluctuations in usage of our platform, including seasonality; the amount and timing of our expenses related to acquiring clients and customers and the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; changes to our relationships with our clients; general economic, industry and market conditions; competitive dynamics in the industry in which we operate; the amount and timing of stock-based compensation expenses; network outages, cyberattacks, or other actual or perceived security incidents or breaches or data privacy violations; -36- changes in laws and regulations that impact our business; the cost and outcomes of existing or potential claims or litigation; and the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses and potential future charges for impairment of goodwill from acquired technologies or businesses. If we are unable to attract, retain or grow our relationships with our existing clients, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, sales efforts to large clients involve risks that may not be present or that are present to a lesser extent with respect to sales to smaller organizations. For our platform to be successful, we must continue our existing partnerships, and successfully develop new partnerships, with clients. Our ability to retain and grow our relationships with our clients depends on the willingness of those clients to establish a commercial relationship with us. If clients with whom we develop partnerships fail to market or do not effectively market our platform to their customers, or customers fail to adopt our platform through these marketing efforts in such numbers as we have projected, our customer acquisition costs may increase and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Sales to large clients involve risks that may not be present or that are present to a lesser extent with sales to smaller organizations, such as longer sales cycles, more complex requirements and substantial upfront sales costs. For example, large clients may require considerable time to evaluate and test our platform prior to making a decision, or may request pricing models that may decrease our potential margins. Several factors influence the length and variability of our sales cycle, including the need to educate potential clients about the uses and benefits of our platform, the discretionary nature of purchasing and budget cycles, and the competitive nature of evaluation and purchasing approval processes. In order for our sales efforts to large organizations to be successful, we often must be able to engage with senior officers of the organization. As a result, the length of our sales cycle, from identification of the opportunity to deal closure, may vary significantly for each client, with sales to large enterprises typically taking longer to complete. If we fail to effectively manage the risks associated with sales cycles and sales to large clients, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Moreover, when we execute an agreement with a client, we are still dependent on that client to deploy our platform. Larger clients, in particular, often delay deployment for a lengthy period of time after executing an agreement. Even when clients begin their integration into our platform, they do so on a limited basis while frequently requiring that we provide implementation services, which may include customization and controls that limit the functionality of our platform, and negotiate pricing discounts, which increases our upfront investment in the sales effort with no guarantee that sales to these clients will justify our upfront investment, which can be substantial. If a client delays deployment for lengthy periods of time, our consumer and revenue growth may not achieve expectations and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our agreements with our clients have terms that range from approximately one to three years, and in some cases, our existing clients can generally terminate these agreements without cause upon 30 to 90 days prior written notice. In addition, many of those agreements also provide for the right of the client to terminate the agreement, or for us to pay financial penalties, in the event that we breach certain service level agreements with respect to the operation of our platform. The termination of one or more of our agreements with a client would result in a reduction in a loss of transacting accounts, transaction volume and revenue attributable to customers generated from that client relationship, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, certain terms of our client agreements remain subject to further discussion and refinement before they can be implemented, including the potential products and services to bring to market. For example, we were unable to reach an agreement with Hidden Road Inc. regarding certain services it would provide to BakktX and without which we cannot operate the technology underlying BakktX in the manner originally intended. Our ability to realize the intended benefits of these partnerships will depend on our ability to finalize such -37- agreements, for such products and services, and to do so on terms sufficiently favorable to us. While we continue to negotiate client agreement terms, we may be unable to agree to terms with such clients on commercially advantageous terms or at all, which may adversely affect our business and prospects. Furthermore, our ability to retain existing, or obtain new, clients and customers may be impacted to the extent that clients choose not to partner with us, or customers choose not to transact or to engage in fewer transactions on our platform, in each case, because we do not currently offer or plan to cease offering certain crypto assets. For example, Bakkt previously delisted a substantial majority of the crypto assets that had historically been available for trading on the Bakkt Crypto platform, some of which have since been relisted. Delisting those crypto assets impacted our trading volume and revenues, and the possibility that Bakkt may again delist crypto assets may impact our trading volume and revenues and may adversely affect our client and customer relationships. If clients do not engage with us, or if customers choose not to transact or make fewer transactions on our platform, our revenues will be adversely impacted. Any of the foregoing could, among other things, adversely impact our stock price, make us less competitive compared to our peers and otherwise significantly adversely affect our business. Some of our current and prospective clients require the non-objection or other supervisory feedback of their own supervisors in order to deploy our solutions, and if they are unable to obtain those approvals on a timely basis, or at all, our results of operations and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Some of our current and prospective clients themselves are regulated entities that may be subject to restrictions with respect to how they engage in crypto-related activities. For instance, several banks to whom we seek to provide our crypto solutions are regulated by the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and/or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Pursuant to statements made by these regulators in the last few years, banks subject to their supervision are required to consult with, and potentially obtain the non-objection of, their relevant supervisor before engaging in crypto-related activities. If these banks, or other current or prospective clients that are supervised entities, are unable to obtain any required non-objection or other supervisory feedback of their regulators, or the timing of such non-objection or other supervisory feedback is delayed, that failure or delay would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and future prospects. We face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the industries in which we operate. The crypto and loyalty and rewards industries are highly competitive, rapidly changing, highly innovative, and increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny and oversight. We compete against a wide range of businesses in the crypto and loyalty and rewards industries generally, including those that are larger than us, have greater name recognition, larger pools of deployable capital, longer operating histories, or a dominant or more secure position, or offer other products and services to customers that we do not offer, as well as smaller or younger companies that may be more agile in responding quickly to regulatory and technological changes. Many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting consumer needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Competition also may intensify as businesses enter into business combinations and partnerships, and established companies in other segments expand to become competitive with different aspects of our business. We compete primarily on the basis of the following: ability to attract, retain and engage clients (and in turn, customers) on our platform; ability to demonstrate to clients that they may achieve incremental revenue and attract new customers by using and offering our services to their customers; confidence in the safety, security, privacy and control of customer information on our platform; -38- ability to develop products and services across multiple commerce channels, including crypto and loyalty; and system reliability, regulatory compliance and data security. We partner with many businesses and consider the ability to continue establishing these partnerships important to our business. Competition for relationships with these clients is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to establish, grow, or maintain these client relationships. Some of our current and potential competitors have larger customer bases, broader geographic scope, volume, scale, resources and market share than we do, which may provide them significant competitive advantages. Some competitors may also be subject to less burdensome licensing, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing and other regulatory requirements. They may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products and services, and offer lower prices or more effectively offer their own innovative programs, products and services. We also compete against a large number of decentralized and noncustodial platforms. On these platforms, customers can interact directly with a market-making smart contract or on-chain trading mechanism to exchange one type of crypto for another without any centralized intermediary. These platforms are typically not as easy to use as our platform, and some lack the speed and liquidity of centralized platforms, but various innovative models and incentives have been designed to bridge the gap. In addition, such platforms have low startup and entry costs as market entrants often remain unregulated and have minimal operating and regulatory costs. If the demand for decentralized platforms grows and we are unable to compete with these decentralized and noncustodial platforms, our business may be adversely affected. If we are not able to differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors, drive value for our clients and customers, or effectively and efficiently align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively in the market. If our platform does not meet our service level commitments, our revenue and reputation may be negatively impacted. We typically commit, through service level agreements or otherwise, to maintaining a minimum service levels with respect to our platforms functionality, availability and response time. If we are unable to meet these commitments, we may be obligated to provide clients with remedies set forth below. A failure to meet service level commitments, even for a relatively short duration, could cause us to be contractually obligated to issue credits or refunds to a large number of affected clients and customers, or could result in the dissatisfaction or loss of clients and customers. Affected participants could also choose to pursue other legal remedies that may be available to them. In addition, we rely on public cloud providers, such as Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud, and any availability interruption in the public cloud could result in us not meeting our service-level commitments. In some cases, we may not have a contractual right with our public cloud providers that compensates us for any losses due to availability interruptions in the public cloud. Any of the above circumstances or events may impact our revenues, harm our reputation, impair our ability to develop our platform and grow our base of clients and customers, subject us to financial penalties and liabilities under our service level agreements and otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face operational, legal and other risks related to our reliance on third party vendors, over which we have no control. We face operational risk because we rely on third party vendors to provide us with financial, technology and other services and to facilitate certain of our business activities, including, for example, marketing services, fulfillment services, cloud-based computer and data storage and other IT solutions and payment processing. -39- These third parties may be subject to financial, legal, regulatory and labor issues, cyberattacks, security incidents, privacy breaches, service terminations, disruptions or interruptions, or other problems, which may impose additional costs or requirements on us or prevent these third parties from providing services to us or our customers on our behalf, which could harm our business. Additionally, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and other regulators have issued guidance stating that institutions under their supervision may be held responsible for the actions of the companies with which they contract. Accordingly, we could be adversely impacted to the extent our vendors fail to comply with the legal requirements applicable to the particular products or services being offered. In some cases, vendors are the sole source, or one of a limited number of sources, of the services they provide to us. For example, there are a limited number of service providers that can provide the credit needed to facilitate high-volume institutional trading on ECNs, such as the BakktX ECN we plan to launch. As such, to the extent we look to add central clearing counterparty services to BakktX, we may be limited in the number of available counterparties. We may be unable to procure alternatives from other vendors in a timely and efficient manner on acceptable terms, or at all. We are also solely reliant on our agreement with our cloud computing web services provider for the provision of cloud infrastructure services to support our platform. Most of our vendor agreements are terminable by the vendor with little or no notice, and if our current vendors were to terminate their agreements with us or otherwise stop providing services to us on acceptable terms, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other vendors in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. If any vendor fails to provide the services we require, fails to meet contractual requirements (including compliance with applicable laws and regulations), fails to maintain adequate data privacy controls and electronic security systems, or suffers a cyberattack or other security incident or breach, we could be subject to CFPB, Federal Trade Commission, SEC, and other regulatory enforcement actions, claims from third parties, including our customers, incur significant costs to resolve any issues or suffer economic and reputational harm, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative products and services, the use of our products and services may not develop, and, consequently, our business would suffer. Rapid, significant and disruptive technological changes impact the industries in which we operate, including developments in crypto (including distributed ledger and blockchain technologies). As a result, we expect new services and technologies to continue to emerge and evolve, and we cannot predict the effects of technological changes on our business. In addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we rely in part on third parties for the development of and access to new or evolving technologies. These third parties may restrict or prevent our access to, or utilization of, those technologies, as well as their platforms or products. In addition, we may not be able to accurately predict which technological developments or innovations will become widely adopted and how those technologies may be regulated. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the industries in which we operate will continue to emerge and may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. Developing and incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require substantial expenditures, take considerable time, and ultimately may not be successful. In addition, our ability to adopt new products and services and to develop new technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, payments networks, changes to laws and regulations, resistance to change from clients or customers, third-party intellectual property rights, or other factors. Our success will depend on our ability to develop and incorporate new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. A large percentage of our revenue is concentrated with a single client that has notified us it will not be renewing its agreement with us. The loss of this client will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Moreover, because of our B2B2C go-to-market model, the loss of any clientregardless of the reason increases the risk that the customers that originally emanated from that client will transition to another provider or stop doing business with us, which would harm our business. The concentration of a significant portion of our business and transaction volume with a limited number of clients exposes us disproportionately to the risk of any of those clients choosing to no longer partner with us, to the -40- economic performance of such clients or their respective industries or to any events, circumstances, or risks affecting such clients or their respective industries. For example, our largest client, Webull, which represented approximately 74% and 73% of our Crypto services revenue in the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, has notified us that it will not be renewing its agreement with us when the current term of the agreement ends on June 14, 2025. In addition, our client Bank of America Corporation (Bank of America), which represented approximately 16% and 18% of our Loyalty net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, notified us that it would not be renewing its commercial contract at the contracts expiration in April 2025, subject to the Companys obligation to provide transition services for up to a 12-month period. These events will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and future prospects to the extent we are unable to replace the revenue from such client. Our clients may terminate or reduce their use of our services, including their transaction volumes, for any number of reasons, including if they are not satisfied with our services, the value proposition of our services or platform, or our ability to meet their needs and expectations. We cannot accurately predict clients usage levels and the loss of clients or reductions in their usage levels of our services or transaction volumes. Any such loss or reduction could make our platform less appealing to existing and potential clients. Accordingly, the loss of any additional significant client relationship could further materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. In connection with the sale of Bakkt Trust we may become subject to retained liabilities and other risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On March 17, 2025, we entered into an agreement for the sale of Bakkt Trust. Pursuant to the terms of the Bakkt Trust purchase agreement, we may be subject to liabilities such as legal claims, including but not limited to third-party liability and other tort claims, claims for breach of contract, employment-related claims, regulatory or other compliance with law issues, tax liabilities, or liabilities we agree to retain pursuant to the Bakkt Trust purchase agreement. If any of these liabilities are not adequately covered by insurance or an enforceable indemnity or similar agreement from a creditworthy counterparty, we may be responsible for significant out-of-pocket expenditures. Further, in connection with the Bakkt Trust purchase agreement, we may incur liabilities for breaches of representations and warranties or failure to comply with operating covenants under such agreement. Additionally, we may have to indemnify the counterparty to the Bakkt Trust purchase agreement for certain liabilities or operations of Bakkt Trust. These liabilities, if they materialize, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Furthermore, we may not realize the expected benefits from the Bakkt Trust sale or from a strategic transaction involving our loyalty business. For example, we expect certain operational efficiencies, cost reductions and releases of regulatory capital to follow any such disposition. If any of those or other expected benefits fail to materialize at the levels we expect or at all, our business, financial position, results of operations and available cash may be adversely affected. We may not realize the expected benefits under the Cooperation Agreement and may be unable to successfully negotiate the terms to acquire DTR, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On March 19, 2025, we entered into the Cooperation Agreement, pursuant to which, among other things, DTR agreed to provide us with certain exclusive payment processing technology, application programming interfaces, and infrastructure to be integrated into our platform for the enablement of global payments processing services in the jurisdictions where we or our affiliates operate. While we expect to work with DTR under the Cooperation Agreement to integrate our platform with DTRs technology to establish mutually beneficial stablecoin-based payment services, we may be unsuccessful in such efforts and, even if we are initially successful, we may be unable to continue such operations if we are unable to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, which risk may be compounded by Akshay Nehata, who directly or indirectly, wholly owns DTR, serving as our Co-Chief Executive Officer and on the Board. Additionally, under the Cooperation Agreement, we will negotiate with DTR to establish the terms of the Call Option and the Put Option. While we intend to negotiate such matters in accordance with the terms of the Cooperation Agreement, we may be unsuccessful in such efforts, which may cause us or DTR to seek to modify or -41- terminate the other commercial agreements under the Cooperation Agreement, any of which may be adverse to our prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Further, if we establish the terms of the Put Option, DTR will have the ability to force us to acquire DTR for up to 31.5% of our common stock plus certain convertible or exchangeable securities, which may be highly dilutive to our existing stockholders. Moreover, if we establish terms of the put/call option, and we acquire DTR or DTR exercises its right for us to acquire DTR, we may not realize the expected benefits of such acquisition. For additional information regarding the risks related to potential acquisitions, see the following risk factor. Acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships, or alliances may be difficult to identify. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future investments, strategic transactions or acquisitions and integration of these acquisitions may pose integration challenges, divert the attention of management, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, joint ventures, partnerships, alliances and platform technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform, enhance our technology, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future investments, strategic transactions, or acquisitions, and these transactions involve numerous risks that are not within our control. These risks include the following, among others: difficulty in assimilating the operations, systems, and personnel of the acquired business; difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues; difficulty integrating the acquired businesss accounting, management information and other administrative systems; inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business; inability to retain key customers, vendors and other business clients of the acquired business; inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our results of operations; regulatory changes that affect the value of the businesses we acquire or our plans for integration of those businesses, or that expose us to additional regulation or litigation in connection with the acquired businesses; significant post-acquisition investments which may lower the actual benefits realized through the acquisition; potential failure of the due diligence process to identify significant issues with product quality, legal, and financial liabilities among other things; and -42- potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective. In particular, the acquisition of Bakkt Crypto presents risks to our business, including because: our ability to retain the legacy clients of Bakkt Crypto, and expand those relationships, is a key growth driver for us; we are in the process of replacing and/or augmenting many of our existing systems and relationships (e.g., agreements with crypto liquidity providers) with those historically used by Bakkt Crypto; we may have increased liability and/or regulatory risk from the list of additional crypto assets on our platform and from the pre-acquisition activities of Bakkt Crypto, even after we elected to delist certain of the crypto assets on the Bakkt Crypto platform; and the commercial relationship with Apex Clearing Corporation that is a part of the acquisition of Bakkt Crypto is a key growth driver for us, but that relationship may not produce the benefits that we envision. Our failure to address these risks, or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future investments, strategic transactions, or acquisitions, could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental expenses or the write-off of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition or results of operations, and the trading price of our Class A Common Stock could decline. For example, under the purchase agreement for the acquisition of Bakkt Crypto, we agreed to issue cash consideration of $55.0 million, up to $45.0 million in shares of our Class A Common Stock depending on Bakkt Cryptos achievement of certain profitability targets for the fourth quarter of 2022, and up to an additional $100.0 million in shares of our Class A Common Stock depending on Bakkt Cryptos achievement of certain financial targets through 2025. Under the purchase agreement for the acquisition of Bakkt Crypto, we have delivered approximately $9.1 million of shares of Class A Common Stock, which we expect to satisfy all of our obligations thereunder. We may require additional capital to support the growth of our business, and such capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through equity financings and payments received from our platform. We cannot be certain when or if our operations will generate sufficient cash to fully fund our ongoing operations or the growth of our business. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business, which may require us to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. For example, in the Concurrent Offerings we issued and sold an aggregate of 1,858,062 shares of our Class A Common Stock, warrants to purchase an aggregate of 2,306,800 shares of Class A Common Stock at an exercise price of $25.50 per share, and Pre-Funded Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 448,742 shares of Class A Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.0001 per share for aggregate net proceeds of $46.5 million. Furthermore, while the ICE Credit Facility allows us to borrow up to $40,000,000, there are certain limitations on such borrowings, including graduated availability from December 31, 2024 through September 29, 2025. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. For example, we may be required to seek the approval of ICE under the ICE Credit Facility in order to incur other indebtedness. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest in future growth opportunities, which could harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations. If we incur debt, including under the ICE Credit Facility, the debt holders would have rights senior to holders of existing securities to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our existing securities. Our decision to issue securities in the future will depend on numerous considerations, including factors beyond our control, thus we cannot predict or -43- estimate the amount, timing, or nature of any future issuances of debt or equity securities. As a result, our stockholders bear the risk of future issuances of debt or equity securities reducing the value of our securities and diluting their interests. In the past, we have identified conditions and events that raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and it is possible that we may identify conditions and events in the future that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We intend to use our unrestricted cash and amounts available for borrowings under the ICE Credit Facility primarily to fund our day-to-day operations, including, but not limited to funding our regulatory capital requirements, compensating balance arrangements and other similar commitments, each of which is subject to change, and as available, to (i) activate new crypto clients, (ii) launch new crypto products in the institutional space and maintain our product development efforts, and (iii) optimize our technology infrastructure and operational support. We previously identified conditions and events that raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern in connection with the filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ending September 30, 2023. In connection with the filing of subsequent amendments thereto, we disclosed that, without additional equity financing, we could not conclude that we could maintain our operations for a period of at least 12 months from the dates of such filings. We subsequently closed on the Concurrent Offerings and, most recently, the ICE Credit Facility, which resulted in management concluding that we had sufficient capital to continue as a going concern for at least 12 months from the date of this Form 10-K. On March 14, 2025, our largest client, Webull, notified us that it will not be renewing its agreement with us when the current term of the agreement ends on June 14, 2025. The loss of Webull will materially reduce our Crypto services revenue and raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for at least the next 12 months. Management has plans to reduce operating costs, including reductions in force and other spending cuts, that will preserve and extend liquidity. Management believes that these plans can be successfully implemented and alleviate the substantial doubt as of the date of this filing. However, that determination may change in the future. If we cannot continue as a viable entity, our stockholders will likely lose most or all of their investment in us. We have experienced and may continue to experience impacts to our business as a result of our clients concern regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. For example, (i) one of our crypto clients closed out of all customer positions, (ii) we received inquiries from clients and prospective clients about our financial position, (iii) certain of our surety bond providers requested additional collateral, (iv) we were required to pledge as collateral the amounts that were previously required to be maintained in a concentration account for our purchasing card facility, and (v) certain of our liquidity providers requested updated payment arrangements. There can be no assurance that we will not experience additional adverse impacts to our business, including additional or accelerated account closures, loss of future potential business, and additional demands for cash or collateral, which, individually or in the aggregate may further impair our business and exacerbate the risks related to our ability to continue as a going concern. There is significant uncertainty associated with our expansion to new markets, our launch of new products, and the growth of our revenue base given the rapidly evolving environment associated with crypto assets. Accordingly, we cannot conclude it is probable we will be able to increase revenues substantially beyond levels that we have attained in the past in order to generate sustainable operating profit and sufficient cash flows to continue doing business without raising additional capital in the near future. If we are required to raise additional funding in the future to maintain our operations or we are unable to access any or all of the amounts available under the ICE Credit Facility, we cannot be certain that additional capital, whether through selling additional equity or debt securities or obtaining additional lines of credit or other loans, will be available to us or, if available, will be on terms acceptable to us. If we issue additional securities to raise funds, these securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of our common stock, and our current stockholders may experience dilution. If we are unable to obtain funds when needed or on acceptable terms, we may be required to curtail our current platform expansion programs, cut operating costs, forego future development and other opportunities or even terminate our operations. In addition, even though as of the filing of this Form 10-K, we determined that the Company has sufficient capital to continue as a going concern for at least 12 months, we may be -44- unable to recover with investors, clients and customers due to the adverse reputational effects we experienced previously or may experience in the future. We hold our cash and cash equivalents that we use to meet our working capital and operating expense needs in deposit accounts that could be adversely affected if the financial institutions holding such funds fail. We hold our cash and cash equivalents that we use to meet our working capital and operating expense needs in deposit accounts at multiple financial institutions. The balances held in these accounts typically exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit insurance limit. If a financial institution in which we hold such funds fails or is subject to significant adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets, we could be subject to a risk of loss of all or a portion of such uninsured funds or be subject to a delay in accessing all or a portion of such uninsured funds. Any such loss or lack of, or delay in, access to these funds could adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to meet our ongoing working capital and operating expense obligations. We also maintain investment accounts with other financial institutions in which we hold our investments and, if access to these investments were to be impaired, we may not be able to open new operating accounts, sell investments or transfer funds from our investment accounts to new operating accounts on a timely basis sufficient to meet our operating expense obligations. In addition, if further liquidity and financial stability concerns arise with respect to banks and financial institutions, the ability of our clients or their customers to access existing cash, cash equivalents or investments or to access existing, or enter into new, banking arrangements or facilities, may be adversely impacted, which could in turn impact such parties ability to pay their obligations to us or to our clients, or to enter into new commercial arrangements with us. The loss of the services of our senior management could adversely affect our business. The experience of our senior management is a valuable asset to us. If we are unable to retain members of our core senior management team, we could experience uncertainty and significant delays or difficulty in the achievement of our development and strategic objectives and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely harmed. Our management team has significant experience, is responsible for many of our core competencies, and would be difficult to replace. Competition for senior executives in these businesses is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. Failure to retain talented senior leadership could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, or our leadership structure, could disrupt our business, and could impact our ability to preserve our culture, which could negatively affect our ability to recruit and retain personnel. For example, effective March 21, 2025, Akshay Naheta will be appointed as our Co-Chief Executive Officer, to serve in such role along with Andrew Main. This is a somewhat atypical leadership structure, and such structure may not achieve the benefits we intend. Furthermore, Mr. Naheta agreed to serve as our Co-Chief Executive Officer in connection with our entrance into the Cooperation Agreement with him and DTR, which is an entity that is directly or indirectly wholly owned by Mr. Naheta. To the extent our negotiations to acquire DTR are unsuccessful, Mr. Naheta may determine to no longer serve as our Co-Chief Executive Officer or seek to modify his role with us. Any departure of an executive could be particularly disruptive in light of the leadership transition. Our business will suffer if we fail to attract and retain highly skilled employees. Our future success will depend on our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel for all areas of our organization, particularly information technology and sales. Hiring qualified and experienced personnel in this specialized technology space is difficult due to the high level of competition and scarcity of experience. Further, on May 2, 2024, we announced a reduction in force resulting in the termination of 28 employees, which may limit our ability to attract and retained qualified and experienced personnel. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we do and may be able to -45- offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training employees, which increases their value to competitors that may seek to recruit them. We may not be able to attract, develop and maintain the skilled workforce necessary to operate our business and labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of qualified personnel, which would negatively impact our business. Further, we may suffer shortages with respect to certain categories of personnel due to reductions in force, attrition, inability to hire qualified and experienced personnel, or any combination of the foregoing, which may negatively impact our operational performance. For example, if we suffer shortages with respect to certain of our customer service personnel, our ability to maintain compliance with our service level commitments to clients may be impacted, resulting in financial penalties and, potentially, damage to or loss of those client relationships. Shortages with respect to certain of our compliance personnel may limit our ability to comply with evolving and uncertain laws and other regulations. For additional information, see Risks Related to Regulation, Taxation and Laws. Shortages with respect to certain of our accounting personnel may limit our ability to maintain internal control over financial reporting. For more information, see Risks Related to Risk Management and Financial Reporting. Our revenue is impacted, to a significant extent, by the general economy. Our business and our clients businesses are sensitive to macroeconomic conditions. Economic factors such as interest rates, tariffs, inflation, changes in monetary and related policies, market volatility (including as a result of geopolitical issues, such as the wars in Ukraine and the Middle East), consumer confidence, and unemployment rates are among the most significant factors that impact consumer spending behavior. Weak economic conditions, high interest rates, inflation or a significant deterioration in economic conditions reduce the amount of disposable income consumers have, which in turn reduces consumer spending and the willingness of consumers to accumulate and spend crypto and loyalty points or otherwise transact in such assets, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. In particular, the high levels of inflation experienced in the United States could negatively impact our business by increasing our costs and reducing consumer activities necessarily to our revenue generation. Our ability to generate subscription and service revenue and transaction revenue depends, in part, on customers continuing to access and utilize our platform. Our clients businesses may decrease or fail to increase as a result of factors outside of their control, such as the macroeconomic conditions referenced above, or business conditions affecting a particular client, industry vertical, or region. Weak economic conditions also could extend the length of our clients sales cycle and cause consumers to delay making (or not make) purchases. Some of our clients have experienced a decrease in sales, supply chain disruptions, inventory shortages, and other adverse effects. A decline in activity by consumers of our clients products and services for any reason may correspondingly result in lower revenue generated by our platform. If we experience rapid growth, it may place significant demands on our operational, administrative and financial resources and it may be difficult to sustain such growth. We have a relatively limited operating history even at our current scale, and our projected growth in future periods exposes us to increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties. If we are unable to appropriately scale our operations to support such growth, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. If we experience rapid growth, we could face significant challenges in: maintaining and developing relationships with existing and new clients; securing funding to maintain our operations and future growth; maintaining adequate financial, business and risk controls; implementing new or updated information and financial risk