Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2024 (this "Report") and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, which is incorporated herein by reference. References in this section to we, us, our, Bakkt or the Company and like terms refer to Bakkt Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries for the three months ending March 31, 2024, unless the context otherwise requires. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Report, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business, includes forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of our management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, our management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those factors discussed above in Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors. Overview In this section and elsewhere in this Report, we use the following terms, which are defined as follows: "Client" means businesses with whom we contract to provide services to customers on our platform, and includes financial institutions, hedge funds, merchants, retailers, third party partners, and other businesses (except in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements, where we refer to revenue earned from customers, instead of clients. The term customers is in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.) "Crypto" or "Crypto asset" means an asset that is built using blockchain technology, including virtual currencies (as used in the State of New York), coins, cryptocurrencies, stablecoins, and other tokens. Our platform enables transactions in certain supported crypto assets. For purposes of this Form 10-Q, we use crypto assets, virtual currency, coins, and tokens interchangeably. "Customer" means an individual user of our platform. Customers include customers of our loyalty clients who use our platform to transact in loyalty points, as well as customers of our clients who transact in crypto through, and have accounts on, our platform (except as defined for ASC 606 purposes above). "Loyalty points" means loyalty and/or reward points that are issued by clients to their customers. Founded in 2018, Bakkt builds technology that connects the digital economy by offering one ecosystem for crypto and loyalty points. We enable our clients to deliver new opportunities to their customers through software as a service (SaaS) and API solutions that unlock crypto and drive loyalty, powering engagement and performance. The global market for crypto, while nascent, is rapidly evolving and expanding. We believe we are well-positioned to provide innovative, multi-faceted product solutions and grow with this evolving market. Our platform is uniquely positioned to power commerce by enabling consumers, brands, and financial institutions to better manage, transact with and monetize crypto in exciting new ways. Our platform is built to operate across various cryptoassets and offers clients the flexibility to choose some or all of our capabilities, and the manner in which these capabilities are enabled for consumers, based on their needs and objectives. Some clients may choose to enable our capabilities directly in their experience, while others may want a ready-to-go storefront and leverage capabilities such as our web-based technology. Our institutional-grade platform, born out of our former parent company, Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. (ICE), supports "know your customer" ("KYC"), anti-money laundering ("AML"), and other anti-fraud measures to combat financial crime. 36 Table of Contents Recent Developments Reverse Stock Split On April 29, 2024, following approval by our stockholders and Board of Directors, we effected a reverse stock split (the Reverse Stock Split) of our Class A Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (Class A Common Stock), and Class V Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (Class V Common Stock and collectively with the Class A Common Stock, the Common Stock), at a ratio of 1-for-25 (the Reverse Stock Split Ratio), effective as of 12:01 a.m. eastern time on April 29, 2024 (the Effective Time). Our Class A Common Stock began trading on a reverse-split adjusted basis on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE) as of the open of trading on April 29, 2024. After the Effective Time, the Class A Common Stock will continue to be listed on the NYSE under the symbol BKKT. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 505 Equity, changes in the capital structure of a public reporting entity due to a reverse stock split occurring after the balance sheet date, but before the release of the financial statements, should be given retroactive effect. As such, the Reverse Stock Split has been retroactively applied to all figures throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (unless otherwise noted). The Reverse Stock Split increased the price per share of our Class A Common Stock above the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement of Section 802.01C of the NYSE Listed Company Manual (the Listing Rule), as discussed below. We, however, cannot assure that the price per share following the Reverse Stock Split will be maintained for any period of time, or that the price will remain above the pre-split trading price or $1.00 per share. In connection with the Reverse Stock Split, we effected a corresponding and proportional adjustment to our authorized shares of Common Stock, such that the 1,000,000,000 authorized shares of Common Stock, consisting of 750,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock and 250,000,000 shares of Class V Common Stock were reduced proportionately to 40,000,000 authorized shares of Common Stock, consisting of 30,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock and 10,000,000 shares of Class V Common Stock. The par value per share of Common Stock and number of authorized shares of preferred stock did not change. We did not issue fractional shares in connection with the Reverse Stock Split. Stockholders who would have otherwise held fractional shares because the number of shares of Class A Common Stock they held before the Reverse Stock Split was not evenly divisible by the Reverse Stock Split Ratio received cash (without interest, and subject to any required tax withholding applicable to a holder) in lieu of such fractional shares. To maintain parity with the Class A Common Stock, holders of paired interests (each of which is a combination of one share of Class V Common Stock and one common unit of Bakkt Opco Holdings, LLC and is exchangeable into a share of Class A Common Stock on a one-for-one basis) were also correspondingly adjusted for the Reverse Stock Split and paid out in cash, applying the same per-share price, for any resulting fractional interests. The aggregate cash in respect of fractional interests was not material. Immediately after the Reverse Stock Split, each stockholders percentage ownership interest and proportional voting power remained unchanged, except for minor changes that resulted from the treatment of fractional shares. All of our outstanding warrants to purchase Class A Common Stock were proportionately adjusted as a result of the Reverse Stock Split in accordance with the terms of the warrants. Proportionate adjustments were also made to our employees and directors' outstanding equity awards, as well as to the number of shares issuable under our 2021 Omnibus Incentive Plan, as amended (the 2021 Omnibus Incentive Plan). February 2024 Concurrent Registered Direct Offerings On February 29, 2024, we entered into a securities purchase agreement (the Third-Party Purchase Agreement) with certain institutional investors (the Third-Party Purchasers). The consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Third-Party Purchase Agreement (the Third-Party Closing) occurred on March 4, 2024. At the Third-Party Closing, pursuant to the Third-Party Purchase Agreement, we issued and sold to the Third-Party Purchasers an aggregate of 37 Table of Contents 1,396,701 shares of our Class A Common Stock, Class 1 Warrants (Class 1 Warrants) to purchase an aggregate of 922,722 shares of Class A Common Stock, Class 2 Warrants (Class 2 Warrants) to purchase an aggregate of 922,722 shares of Class A Common Stock and Pre-Funded Warrants (Pre-Funded Warrants) to purchase an aggregate of 448,742 shares of Class A Common Stock. As of the date of this report, holders have exercised all of the Pre-Funded Warrants. The offering of such securities was conducted in a registered direct offering (the Third-Party Offering). The purchase price of each share of Class A Common Stock and accompanying Class 1 Warrant or Class 2 Warrant (each, a Warrant) was $0.8670 and the purchase price of each Pre-Funded Warrant and accompanying Warrant was $0.8669. In a concurrent registered direct offering (the ICE Offering and, together with the Third-Party Offering, the Concurrent Offerings), we entered into a securities purchase agreement (the ICE Purchase Agreement and, together with the Third-Party Purchase Agreement, the Purchase Agreements) with ICE, pursuant to which we agreed to sell to ICE up to 461,360 shares of Class A Common Stock, Class 1 Warrants to purchase up to 230,680 shares of Class A Common Stock, and Class 2 Warrants to purchase up to 230,680 shares of Class A Common Stock. The purchase price of each share of Class A Common Stock and accompanying Warrant in the ICE Offering is $0.8670. In the ICE Offering, we closed the sale and issuance to ICE of 110,480 shares of Class A Common Stock, Class 1 Warrants to purchase up to 55,240 shares of Class A Common Stock and Class 2 Warrants to purchase up to 55,240 shares of Class A Common Stock, concurrently with the Third-Party Closing (the Initial ICE Closing). The closing of the issuance and sale of the remaining 350,880 shares of Class A Common Stock, Class 1 Warrants to purchase up to 175,440 shares of Class A Common Stock and Class 2 Warrants to purchase up to 175,440 shares of Class A Common Stock in the ICE Offering occurred on April 25, 2024, after we obtained stockholder approval for such issuances under the rules and regulations of the NYSE on April 23, 2024. See Liquidity and Capital Resources below for managements assertions on the impact of the Concurrent Offerings on our going concern considerations. Crypto Market Developments After a year of significant volatility in crypto asset prices, a loss of confidence in many participants in the crypto asset ecosystem, regulatory actions and adverse publicity around specific companies in 2023, the crypto markets in 2024 continue to be impacted by the broader macroeconomic conditions, including the strength of the overall macroeconomic environment, high interest rates, spikes in inflation rates, general market volatility, and geopolitical concerns. We expect the macroeconomic environment and the state of the crypto markets to remain dynamic in the near-term. In addition, crypto assets and crypto market participants have recently faced increased scrutiny by regulators. For example, in 2023, the SEC has brought charges against a number of crypto asset exchanges, including Bittrex, Coinbase, Binance, Kraken, and other crypto asset service providers, identifying a number of crypto assets as securities and alleging violations of, and non-compliance with, U.S. federal securities laws. We continue to monitor regulatory developments in this area and assess our business model and the assets we support in light of such developments. In January 2024, the SEC approved a number of applications for spot-traded bitcoin exchange-traded funds, or ETFs. Since then, the crypto market has seen a significant increase in interest from, and participation by, institutional investors. We believe this increase in institutional interest and adoption intersects with our strengths, as we were originally conceived as an institutionally-focused crypto company. Apex Crypto Acquisition On April 1, 2023, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the ownership interests of Apex Crypto LLC (Apex Crypto) and subsequently changed the name of the legal entity to Bakkt Crypto Solutions, LLC (Bakkt Crypto Solutions). On March 20, 2024, Bakkt Marketplace, LLC ("Bakkt Marketplace") merged with Bakkt Crypto Solutions. The newly merged entity operates under the name Bakkt Crypto Solutions, LLC ("Bakkt Crypto"). We are leveraging Bakkt Cryptos proprietary trading platform and existing relationships with liquidity providers to provide a wider range of 38 Table of Contents assets and competitive pricing to our customers. Our acquisition of Bakkt Crypto Solutions complements our B2B2C growth strategy by broadening our business partnerships to fintechs and neobanks. Specifically, Bakkt Crypto offers customers the ability to purchase, sell, store and, in approved jurisdictions, deposit and withdraw approved crypto assets, all from within the applications of its clients with whom customers already have a relationship. Using Bakkt Crypto's platform, customers can purchase approved crypto assets, store crypto assets in custodial wallets, liquidate their holdings, and transfer supported crypto assets between a custodial wallet maintained by Bakkt Crypto and external wallets in certain jurisdictions, if enabled by the client. In addition, Bakkt Crypto is in the process of developing, subject to applicable regulatory approvals, functionalities enabling transfers of supported crypto assets between registered customers. Bakkt Crypto is also in the process of enhancing capabilities on its trading platform, including support for larger orders and recurring buys, and extending the platform to support institutional execution. As part of our ongoing review of potential services, we continually evaluate how we can most effectively improve our platform and service offerings in a manner that is compliant with applicable governance and regulatory considerations. In such review, we may determine to stop pursuing a potential service offering in light of, among other things, revenue expectations and compliance with applicable laws. For example, following discussion with our clients we have elected to suspend the development of our Bakkt Payouts product indefinitely. Furthermore, we considered developing the capability for registered customers to transfer crypto assets to and from other registered customers within our platform but have indefinitely postponed further development and rollout of such functionality. In addition, we evaluated opportunities to offer staking, as well as opportunities to offer non-fungible tokens, and have postponed further development and rollout for both such functionalities indefinitely. At the time our acquisition of Bakkt Crypto Solutions closed, Bakkt Crypto Solutions had agreements with more than 30 fintech clients pursuant to which the clients made Bakkt Crypto Solutionss crypto asset trading service available to their customer base. Our acquisition of Bakkt Crypto Solutions resulted in us obtaining access to such partners. The majority of these fintech clients are also part of Apex Fintech Solutions client network. The agreements with these fintech clients provide for licensing of their front-end trading platforms by Bakkt Crypto and cooperation between the parties in facilitating consumers transactions in crypto assets. The agreements are for a term of either one or two years and can be terminated by either party for breach or in case of a change of control. In most cases, the agreements also contain provisions giving Bakkt Crypto discretion in the choice of crypto assets offered to each client through its platform, and, in some cases, exclusivity covenants pursuant to which clients have agreed not to refer their customers to other crypto asset trading platforms. Following the closing of the acquisition of Bakkt Crypto Solutions and in light of recent regulatory developments, we reviewed all crypto assets then available on the Bakkt Crypto Solutions platform and determined it was appropriate to delist certain of such crypto assets. In effecting such delisting decisions, we attempted to mitigate impacts on our business and customers by affording customers a period in which to exit their positions in the impacted crypto assets as part of an orderly wind-down. The delisting process was completed on September 21, 2023 and we recognized transactional revenue associated with delisted crypto assets of approximately $27.6 million on that date. NYSE Listing Notification On March 13, 2024, we were notified by NYSE that we were not in compliance with the Listing Rule because the average closing stock price of a share of our Class A Common Stock was less than $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. Pursuant to the Listing Rule, we have six months following the NYSE notification to regain compliance with the Listing Rule, during which time our Class A Common Stock will continue to be listed on the NYSE. Under the NYSEs rules, if a Company determines it will cure its noncompliance with the Listing Rule by taking an action that will require stockholder approval, it must so inform the NYSE, and the noncompliance with the Listing Rule 39 Table of Contents will be deemed cured if the price promptly exceeds $1.00 per share and the price remains above that level for at least the following 30 trading days. As discussed above, we implemented the Reverse Stock Split, which we believe will cure the noncompliance with the Listing Rule. Executive Officer Transition On March 18, 2024, Gavin Michael resigned as President, Chief Executive Officer and as a director of the Company, as well as from all positions held with the Companys subsidiaries, effective March 25, 2024. Mr. Michael has been engaged as an advisor to the Company for a period of one year. On March 18, 2024, the Company announced that the Companys Board of Directors (the Board) appointed Andrew Main to serve as the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer, effective as of March 26, 2024. In connection with his appointment as the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Main resigned from his position as a member of the Compensation Committee of the Board, effective as of March 26, 2024. Mr. Main will continue to serve as a member of the Board. On April 29, 2024, Charles Goodroe tendered his resignation from his position as Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, to be effective as of May 22, 2024. Upon the effectiveness of Mr. Goodroes resignation, Karen Alexander, the Companys Chief Financial Officer and principal financial officer, will assume the role of the Companys principal accounting officer. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Growing Our Client Base Our ability to increase our revenue stream depends on our ability to grow clients on our platform. We collaborate with leading brands and have built an extensive network across numerous industries including financial institutions, merchants and travel and entertainment. To date, management has been focused on building through clients within a business-to-business-to-consumer (B2B2C) model. Our goal is to provide these clients opportunities to leverage our capabilities either through their existing environment or by leveraging our platform. Our acquisition of Bakkt Crypto Solutions complements our B2B2C growth strategy by broadening our business partnerships to fintechs and neo-banks. Product Expansion and Innovation The crypto marketplace is rapidly evolving. We believe our ability to continue innovating our platform will increase the attractiveness of our platform to clients. Our ability to meet the capability demands of our clients will allow us to continue to grow revenue. Competition The crypto marketplace is highly competitive with numerous participants competing for the same clients. We believe we are well positioned with our ability to provide capabilities around emerging crypto alongside loyalty points on a single, highly secure, institutional-grade technology platform. General Economic and Market Conditions Our performance is impacted by the strength of the overall macroeconomic environment and crypto market conditions, which are beyond our control. Negative market conditions hinder client activity, including extended decision timelines around implementing crypto strategies. See Crypto Market Developments above. 40 Table of Contents Regulations in U.S. & International Markets We are subject to many complex, uncertain and overlapping local, state and federal laws, rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations (collectively, laws and regulations) in the markets in which we operate. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, consumer protection, privacy and data protection, labor and employment, anti-money laundering, money transmission, competition, and marketing and communications practices. These laws and regulations will likely have evolving interpretations and applications, particularly as we introduce new products and services and expand into new jurisdictions. We are seeking to bring trust and transparency to crypto. We are and will continue to be subject to laws and regulations relating to the collection, use, retention, security, and transfer of information, including the personally identifiable information of our clients and all of the users in the information chain. We have developed and frequently evaluate and update our compliance models to ensure that we are complying with applicable restrictions. We continue to work with regulators to address the emerging global landscape for crypto. As investment continues, the intersection of technology and finance will require ongoing engagement as new applications emerge. Crypto asset and distributed ledger technology have significant, positive potential with proper collaboration between industry and regulators. Safeguarding Obligation Liability and Safeguarding Asset Related to Crypto Held for Other Parties As detailed in Note 18 in the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in this Report, upon the adoption of Staff Accounting Bulletin 121 (SAB 121), we recorded a safeguarding obligation liability and a corresponding safeguarding asset related to the crypto held for other parties. As of March 31, 2024, the safeguarding obligation liability related to crypto held for other parties was $1,233.2 million. We have taken steps to mitigate the potential risk of loss for the crypto we hold for other parties, including holding insurance coverage specifically for certain crypto incidents and using secure cold storage to store the vast majority of crypto that we hold. SAB 121 also asks us to consider the legal ownership of the crypto held for other parties, including whether the crypto held for other parties would be available to satisfy general creditor claims in the event of our bankruptcy. The legal rights with respect to crypto held on behalf of third parties by a custodian, such as us, upon the custodians bankruptcy have not yet been settled by courts and are highly fact-dependent. However, based on the terms of our terms of service and applicable law, in the event that we were to enter bankruptcy, we believe the crypto that we hold in custody for users of our platform should be respected as users property (and should not be available to satisfy the claims of our general creditors). We do not allow users to purchase crypto on margin, and crypto held on our platform does not serve as collateral for margin loans. We hold crypto in custody for users in one or more omnibus crypto wallets. We hold cryptographic key information and maintain internal record keeping for the crypto we hold in custody for users, and we are obligated to secure such assets from loss or theft. Our contractual arrangements state that our customers and clients retain legal ownership of the crypto custodied by us on their behalf; they also benefit from the rewards and bear the risks associated with their ownership, including as a result of any price fluctuations. We have been monitoring and will continue to actively monitor legal and regulatory developments and may consider further steps, as appropriate, to support this contractual position so that in the event of our bankruptcy, the crypto custodied by us should not be deemed to be part of our bankruptcy estate. We do not expect potential future cash flows associated with the crypto safeguarding obligation liability. 41 Table of Contents Key Performance Indicators We use four key performance indicators (KPIs) that are key to understanding our business performance, as they reflect the different ways we enable clients to engage with our platform. Crypto-enabled accounts. We define crypto-enabled accounts as the total crypto accounts open on our platform. There were 6.3 million and 6.2 million crypto-enabled accounts as of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. Transacting accounts. We define transacting accounts as unique accounts that perform transactions on our platform each month. We use transacting accounts to reflect how users across our platform use the variety of services we offer, such as buying and selling crypto to facilitate everyday purchases, redeeming loyalty points for travel or merchandise, or converting loyalty points to cash or gift cards. There were 0.8 million and 0.7 million unique monthly transacting accounts during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, respectively. Notional traded volume.We define notional traded volume as the total notional volume of transactions across crypto and loyalty platforms. The figures we use represent gross values recorded as of the order date. Notional traded volumes were $1,040.7 million and $193.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, respectively. Assets under custody. We define assets under custody as the sum of coin quantities held by customers multiplied by the final quote for each coin on the last day of the period. Assets under custody were $1,233.2 million and $701.6 millionas of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. 42 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table is our consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, respectively (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Revenues: Crypto services $ 841,340 $ 443 Loyalty services, net 13,242 12,776 Total revenue 854,582 13,219 Operating expenses: Crypto costs 831,972 363 Execution, clearing and brokerage fees 5,630 Compensation and benefits 24,531 34,144 Professional services 3,635 2,378 Technology and communication 5,772 5,718 Selling, general and administrative 7,811 6,709 Acquisition-related expenses 11 776 Depreciation and amortization 57 3,063 Related party expenses 150 600 Impairment of long-lived assets 288 Restructuring expenses 6,140 4,251 Other operating expenses 422 665 Total operating expenses 886,419 58,667 Operating loss (31,837) (45,448) Interest income, net 956 1,624 Gain (loss) from change in fair value of warrant liability 9,046 (1,000) Other income (expense), net 716 (17) Loss before income taxes (21,119) (44,841) Income tax expense (156) (18) Net loss $ (21,275) $ (44,859) Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (13,110) (30,883) Net loss attributable to Bakkt Holdings, Inc. (8,165) (13,976) Net loss per share attributable to Class A Common Stockholders. Basic $ (1.86) $ (4.27) Diluted $ (1.86) $ (4.27) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Financial Summary The three months ended March 31, 2024 included the following notable items relative to the three months ended March 31, 2023: Revenue increased $841.4 million, primarily driven by a significant increase in crypto services revenue due to our acquisition of Bakkt Crypto Solutions; and Operating expenses increased $827.8 million primarily driven by increased trading costs in connection with our acquisition of Bakkt Crypto Solutions. 43 Table of Contents Revenue Revenues consist of crypto and loyalty revenue. We earn revenue when consumers use our services to buy, sell, and store crypto and redeem loyalty points. We generate revenue across our platform in the following key areas: Subscription and service revenue. We receive a recurring subscription revenue stream from client platform fees as well as service revenue from software development fees and call center support. Transaction revenue. We generate transaction revenue from crypto buy/sell trades where we earn a spread on both legs of the transaction (reported gross) and through loyalty redemption volumes where we receive a percentage fee based on the volume (reported net of associated costs). Crypto Services Revenue ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Crypto services $ 841,340 $ 443 $ 840,897 n/m Crypto services revenue increased by $840.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by increased crypto trading volume due to our acquisition of Bakkt Crypto Solutions. Loyalty Services Revenue ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Loyalty services, net $ 13,242 $ 12,776 $ 466 3.6 % Loyalty services revenue increased by $0.5 million, or 3.6%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily related to increased transaction volume. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of crypto costs, execution, clearing and brokerage fees, compensation and benefits, professional services, technology and communication expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses, acquisition-related expenses, depreciation and amortization, related party expenses, goodwill and intangible assets impairments, impairment of long-lived assets, restructuring charges, and other operating expenses. Crypto Costs ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Crypto costs $ 831,972 $ 363 $ 831,609 n/m Crypto costs represent the gross value of crypto sold by our customers on our platform. These costs are measured at the executed price at the time of the trade. Crypto costs increased by $831.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023, which reflects increased volume driven by our acquisition of Bakkt Crypto Solutions. 44 Table of Contents Execution, Clearing and Brokerage Fees ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Execution, clearing and brokerage fees $ 5,630 $ $ 5,630 n/m Execution, clearing and brokerage fees primarily represent payments to clients in exchange for driving order flow to our platform. Execution, clearing and brokerage fees were $5.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase reflects increased volume driven by our acquisition of Bakkt Crypto Solutions. Compensation and Benefits ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Compensation and Benefits $ 24,531 $ 34,144 $ (9,613) (28.2 %) Compensation and benefits expense include all salaries and benefits, compensation for contract labor, incentive programs for employees, payroll taxes, share-based and unit-based compensation and other employee related costs. Our headcount decreased year over year as we undertook restructuring actions and right sized our expense base to meet current market demand. We expect to limit future hiring and further optimize our headcount as we complete development projects on our platform. Compensation and benefits expense is a significant component of our operating expenses, and we expect this will continue to be the case. However, we expect that our compensation and benefits expenses will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time. Compensation and benefits decreased by $9.6 million, or 28.2%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $4.8 million in non-cash compensation and incentive bonuses, a decrease of $3.1 million in salaries, wages and benefits and a decrease of $1.4 million in contract labor, net of capitalized software development costs. Professional Services ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Professional Services $ 3,635 $ 2,378 $ 1,257 52.9 % Professional services expense includes fees for accounting, legal and regulatory fees. Professional services increased by $1.3 million, or 52.9%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily due to increases of $0.8 million in audit and tax fees and $0.3 million in legal fees, as well as $0.2 million in professional services fees related to our Concurrent Offerings. Technology and Communication ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Technology and Communication $ 5,772 $ 5,718 $ 54 0.9 % Technology and communication costs represent all non-headcount related costs to deliver technological solutions. Such costs principally include amounts paid for software licenses and software-as-a-service arrangements utilized for operating, administrative and information security activities, fees paid for third-party data center hosting arrangements, and fees paid to telecommunications service providers and for telecommunication software platforms necessary for operation of our customer support operations. These costs are driven by client requirements, system capacity, functionality and redundancy requirements. 45 Table of Contents Technology and communications expense also includes fees paid for access to external market data and associated licensing costs, which may be impacted by growth in electronic contract volume, our capacity requirements, changes in the number of telecommunications hubs, and connections with customers to access our electronic platforms directly. Technology and communications expense increased by $0.1 million, or 0.9%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily due to an increase in hardware and software license fees. Selling, General and Administrative ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Selling, General and Administrative $ 7,811 $ 6,709 $ 1,102 16.4 % Selling, general and administrative expenses include marketing, advertising, business insurance, rent and occupancy, bank service charges, dues and subscriptions, travel and entertainment, rent and occupancy, and other general and administrative costs. Our marketing activities primarily consist of web-based promotionalcampaigns, promotional activities with clients, conferences and user events, and brand-building activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses do not include any headcount cost, which is reflected in the Compensation and benefits financial statement line item. We expect these costs will decrease as a percentage of our revenue in future years as we gain improved operating leverage from our projected revenue growth. Selling, general and administrative costs increased by $1.1 million, or 16.4%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $0.8 million in marketing expenses associated with a strategic marketing agreement entered into in 2023, which requires a committed spend, as well as $0.5 to settle the termination of a vendor contract, partially offset by a decrease of $0.3 million insurance expenses. Acquisition-related Expenses ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Acquisition-related expenses $ 11 $ 776 $ (765) (98.6 %) Acquisition-related expenses decreased by $0.8 million, or 98.6%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Acquisition-related expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 primarily consisted of fees for investment banking advisors, lawyers, accountants, tax advisors and public relations firms related to the acquisitions of Apex Crypto and Bumped. The amount and timing of acquisition-related expenses is expected to vary across periods based on potential transaction activities. Depreciation and Amortization ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Depreciation and amortization $ 57 $ 3,063 $ (3,006) (98.1 %) Depreciation and amortization expense consists of amortization of intangible assets from business acquisitions and internally developed software and depreciation of purchased software and computer and office equipment over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation and amortization decreased by $3.0 million, or 98.1%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to lower net book values of intangible assets after impairments were recognized in 2023. 46 Table of Contents Related Party Expenses ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Related party expenses $ 150 $ 600 $ (450) (75.0 %) Related party expenses consist of fees for transition services agreements. Related party expenses decreased by $0.5 million, or 75.0%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was due to the termination of the ICE transition services agreement in December 2023. Impairment of long-lived assets ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Impairment of long-lived assets $ 288 $ $ 288 n/m Impairment of long-lived assets expense increased by $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we recorded impairment charges related to certain fixed assets. Impairment of our remaining long-lived assets may occur in the future. Restructuring Expenses ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Restructuring expenses $ 6,140 $ 4,251 $ 1,889 n/m Restructuring expenses of $6.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024 consist of severance costs and accelerated vesting of non-cash compensation related to the termination of a former executive. Gain (loss) from Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liability ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Gain (loss) from change in fair value of warrant liability $ 9,046 $ (1,000) $ 10,046 n/m We recorded a gain of $9.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024 for the change in fair value on the revaluation of our warrant liabilities associated with our public warrants and warrants from the Concurrent Offerings. We recorded a loss of $1.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 for the change in fair value on the revaluation of our warrant liability associated with our public warrants. These are non-cash charges and are driven by fluctuations in the market price of our public warrants and valuation of our warrants from the Concurrent Offerings. Other Income (Expense), net ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Other income (expense), net $ 716 $ (17) $ 733 (4311.8 %) Other income (expense), net primarily consists of non-operating gains and losses. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we recorded income of $0.7 million primarily related to foreign currency translation. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we recorded expense of less than $0.1 million primarily related to foreign currency translation. 47 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense ($ in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Income tax expense $ (156) $ (18) $ (138) n/m Income tax expense during the three months ended March 31, 2024 primarily consisted of current state tax expense related to certain state jurisdictions wherein we are required to file income tax returns during the period. Income tax benefit during the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily consisted of current state tax expense related to certain state jurisdictions wherein we are required to file income tax returns during the period. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2024, we had $56.6 million and $44.0 million of cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, respectively. Additionally, as of March 31, 2024, we had $18.0 million of available-for-sale debt securities that mature over the next one to seven months. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash deposits at banks and money market funds. Restricted cash is held to satisfy certain minimum capital requirements pursuant to regulatory requirements, or as collateral for insurance contracts. Restricted cash increased over the last 12 months primarily due to insurance and banking collateral requirements. However, we expect the amount of cash that is restricted associated with regulatory capital and insurance requirements to decrease by approximately $10.0 million due to the NYDFS approving the merger of Bakkt Crypto Solutions and Bakkt Marketplace in March 2024. As discussed above, we consummated the initial closings related to Concurrent Offerings in March 2024. As of March 31, 2024, we have raised net proceeds from the Concurrent Offerings of approximately $36.9 million, after deducting the placement agents fees and estimated offering expenses payable by us. Approximately $2.4 million of proceeds from the ICE Offering were received concurrently with the closing of the Third-Party Offering, and an additional $7.6 million in gross proceeds from the ICE Offering were received on April 25, 2024. We intend to use our unrestricted cash, inclusive of the net proceeds from the Concurrent Offerings, and proceeds from maturity of available-for-sale debt securities primarily to fund our day-to-day operations, including, but not limited to funding our regulatory capital requirements, compensating balance arrangements and other similar commitments, each of which is subject to change, and as available (i) activate new crypto clients, (ii) maintain our product development efforts, and (iii) optimize our technology infrastructure and operational support. We continue to evaluate our headcount and expense base. We completed a reduction in force on May 2, 2024, and may take further action to right-size headcount and expenses in 2024. Excluding the cash purchase price to acquire Bakkt Crypto Solutions in 2023, we expect our operating cash usage in 2024 (exclusive of potential acquisitions or other strategic initiatives) to decline from 2023 levels driven by the combined impact of increased revenue and expense reductions related to the completion of large-dollar investments in 2023 and benefits from restructuring actions. In addition, we may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies or intellectual property rights. However, we have no agreements or commitments with respect to any such acquisitions or investments at this time. Our expected uses of available funds are based on our present plans, objectives and business condition. Based on fully-implemented operating budgets and forecasts, which exclude forecasts for new products or markets, our cash and proceeds from the maturity of available for sale debt securities as of the date of the filing of this Form 10-Q are estimated to fund our operations into June of 2025. Our future cash requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, the timing and extent of overhead, sales and marketing expenditures to support projected growth, and our ability to limit our software development investments to features and functionality with a clear line of sight to revenue generation. We made substantial investments in our platforms in 2023, which we expect will enable us to simplify our organization and focus on the core capabilities that are critical to our strategy. 48 Table of Contents Our losses and projected cash needs, combined with our liquidity level, initially raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern in the third quarter of 2023, which we alleviated through management plans which emphasized reducing headcount and other cost cutting measures. In connection with the filing of subsequent amendments thereto, we disclosed that without additional equity financing we could not conclude that we could maintain our operations for a period of at least 12 months from the dates of such amendment filings. We subsequently closed on equity offerings that, when considered with managements other plans, resulted in management concluding that, notwithstanding the initial doubt that was raised, managements plans were expected to alleviate substantial doubt. As of the date of this filing, management believes the expected impact on our liquidity and cash flows resulting from the entity integration and operational initiatives outlined above are probable of occurring, if not already completed as discussed above, are sufficient to enable us to meet our obligations for at least twelve months from the date the consolidated financial statements in this Report are issued, and alleviate the conditions that raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. However, there are certain risks associated with this determination. Please see Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business, Finance and Operations - We might not be able to continue as a going concern. in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 38,353 $ (47,241) Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (2,304) $ 69,699 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 36,705 $ Operating Activities Since our inception, we have yet to achieve positive cash flow from operations. Our primary uses of cash include compensation and benefits for headcount-related expenses, investment in software and product development of our technology platforms, and associated non-headcount technology and communication cost to develop, operate and support our customer-facing technology platforms. Net cash flows provided by operating activities of $38.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily related to net cash inflows resulting from changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $59.7 million, partially offset by our net loss of $21.3 million. Net cash inflows from changes in our operating assets and liabilities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 were primarily due to a $55.2 million increase in customer funds, $3.9 million decrease in prepaid insurance and $3.6 million increase in unsettled crypto trades, partially offset by a $1.3 million decrease in deferred revenue, $1.0 million increase in other assets and liabilities and $1.0 million decrease in operating lease liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of share-based compensation of $8.0 million, the gain from the change in fair value of our warrant liability of $9.0 million and non-cash lease expense of $0.6 million. Net cash flows used in operating activities of $47.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily related to our net loss of $44.9 million and net cash outflows resulting from changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $15.4 million, offset by non-cash charges of $13.0 million. Net cash outflows from changes in our operating assets and liabilities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 resulted primarily from a $16.0 million decrease of accounts payable and accrued liabilities, which was partially offset by a decrease in prepaid insurance of $4.3 million. The non-cash charges primarily consisted of share-based compensation of $7.2 million and depreciation and amortization of $3.1 million. Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities of $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 consisted of the purchase of $18.0 million of available-for-sale debt securities and $1.8 million of capitalized costs of internally 49 Table of Contents developed software for our technology platforms, partially offset by the receipt of $17.5 million of proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities. Net cash flows provided by investing activities of $69.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 consisted of the receipt of $101.0 million of proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities, partially offset by the purchase of $27.0 million of available-for-sale debt securities, $3.7 million of capitalized costs of internally developed software for our technology platforms and $0.6 million cash used to acquire Bakkt Brokerage. Financing Activities Net cash flows provided by financing activities of $36.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024 resulted from proceeds from the Concurrent Offerings of $39.0 million, partially offset by the repurchase and retirement of Class A Common Stock of $2.3 million for tax withholding amounts due in connection with the vesting of equity grants. We did not have any financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Tax Receivable Agreement Concurrently with the completion of the VIH Business Combination, we entered into a Tax Receivable Agreement ("TRA") with certain Bakkt Equity Holders. Pursuant to the TRA, among other things, holders of Bakkt Common Units may, subject to certain conditions, from and after April 16, 2022, exchange such Common Units (along with a corresponding number of shares of our Common Stock), for Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to the terms of the Exchange Agreement, including our right to elect to deliver cash in lieu of Class A common stock and, in certain cases, adjustments as set forth therein. Bakkt will have in effect an election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code for each taxable year in which an exchange of Bakkt Common Units for Class A common stock (or cash) occurs. The exchanges are expected to result in increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Bakkt. These increases in tax basis may reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future. These increases in tax basis may also decrease gains (or increase losses) on future dispositions of certain capital assets to the extent tax basis is allocated to those capital assets. The TRA provides for the payment by us to exchanging holders of Bakkt Common Units of 85% of certain net income tax benefits, if any, that we realize (or in certain cases is deemed to realize) as a result of these increases in tax basis related to entering into the TRA, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the TRA. This payment obligation is an obligation of the Company and not of Bakkt. For purposes of the TRA, the cash tax savings in income tax will be computed by comparing our actual income tax liability (calculated with certain assumptions) to the amount of such taxes that we would have been required to pay had there been no increase to the tax basis of the assets of Bakkt as a result of Bakkt having an election in effect under Section 754 of the Code for each taxable year in which an exchange of Bakkt Common Units for Class A common stock occurs and had we not entered into the TRA. Such change will be calculated under the TRA without regard to any transfers of Bakkt Common Units or distributions with respect to such Bakkt Common Units before the exchange under the Exchange Agreement to which Section 743(b) or 734(b) of the Code applies. As of March 31, 2024, 1,042,812 Opco common units were exchanged for Class A common stock. Based on our history of taxable losses, we have concluded that it is not probable to expect cash tax payments in the foreseeable future and as such, no value has been recorded under the TRA. 50 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following is a summary of our significant contractual obligations and commitments as of March 31, 2024 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Total Purchase obligations(1) $ 6,800 $ 13,200 $ $ $ 20,000 Future minimum operating lease payments(2) 5,024 9,198 7,602 9,731 31,555 Total contractual obligations $ 11,824 $ 22,398 $ 7,602 $ 9,731 $ 51,555 (1)Represents minimum commitment payments under a four-year cloud computing arrangement and a separate five-year marketing partnership. In December 2023, we agreed to amend the cloud computing arrangement and extended the payment period for an additional year. (2)Represents rental payments under operating leases with remaining non-cancellable terms in excess of one year. On April 7, 2022, we entered into a corporate card services agreement with Bank of America to provide a purchasing card facility that we utilize for redemption purchases made from vendors as part of our loyalty redemption platform. Total borrowing capacity under the facility is $35.0 million and there is no defined maturity date. Expenditures made using the purchasing card facility are payable at least bi-monthly, are not subject to formula-based restrictions and do not bear interest if amounts outstanding are paid when due and in full. The purchasing card facility requires us to maintain a concentration account with the lender subject to a minimum liquidity maintenance requirement of $7.0 million along with the accounts receivable of our subsidiary, within the loyalty business. Bakkt Holdings, Inc. serves as the guarantor on behalf of our subsidiary under the commercial purchasing card facility. We began using the purchasing card facility in August 2022. In March 2024, Bank of America required us to pledge as collateral the amounts which were previously required to be maintained in the concentration account. In April 2024, Bank of America reduced our credit line associated with the purchasing card facility from $35.0 million to $20.0 million. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use non-GAAP financial measures to assist in comparing our performance on a consistent basis for purposes of business decision-making by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our core operations. We believe that presenting non-GAAP financial measures is useful to investors because it (a) provides investors with meaningful supplemental information regarding financial performance by excluding certain items that we believe do not directly reflect our core operations, (b) permits investors to view performance using the same tools that we use to budget, forecast, make operating and strategic decisions, and evaluate historical performance, and (c) otherwise provides supplemental information that may be useful to investors in evaluating our results. We believe that the presentation of the following non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to those measures provided herein, provides investors with an additional understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business that could not be obtained absent these disclosures. Adjusted EBITDA We present Adjusted EBITDA as a non-GAAP financial measure. 51 Table of Contents We believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides relevant and useful information, which is used by management in assessing the performance of our business. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization, acquisition-related expenses, share-based and unit-based compensation expense, goodwill and intangible assets impairments, restructuring charges, changes in the fair value of our warrant liability and certain other non-cash and/or non-recurring items that do not contribute directly to our evaluation of operating results and are not components of our core business operations. Adjusted EBITDA provides management with an understanding of earnings before the impact of investing and financing transactions and income taxes, and the effects ofaforementioned items that do not reflect the ordinary earnings of our operations. This measure may be useful to an investor in evaluating our performance. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of our financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to net income (loss) or other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures like Adjusted EBITDA have limitations, should be considered as supplemental in nature and are not meant as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures should be considered alongside other financial performance measures, including net loss and our other financial results presented in accordance with GAAP. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP operating performance measure, to our Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Net loss $ (21,275) $ (44,859) Depreciation and amortization 57 3,063 Interest income, net (956) (1,624) Income tax expense (benefit) 156 18 EBITDA (22,018) (43,402) Acquisition-related expenses 11 776 Share-based and unit-based compensation expense 8,013 7,921 (Gain) loss from change in fair value of warrant liabilities (9,046) 1,000 Impairment of long-lived assets 288 Restructuring expenses 6,140 4,251 Shelf Registration expenses 200 Transition services expense 150 600 Adjusted EBITDA loss $ (16,262) $ (28,854) Adjusted EBITDA loss for the three months ended March 31, 2024 decreased by $12.6 million or 43.6% as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decreased loss was primarily due to the contribution of increased revenues, a $5.2 million decrease in compensation and benefits expense and a $0.7 million decrease in insurance and occupancy costs. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts. In our notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements, we describe the significant accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Our management has discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. For further information about our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in 52 Table of Contents our Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since our Form 10-K. Use of Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates and assumptions on various judgments that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The significant estimates and assumptions that affect the financial statements may include, but are not limited to, going concern, those that are related to income tax valuation allowances, useful lives of intangible assets and property, equipment and software, fair value of financial assets and liabilities, determining provision for credit losses, valuation of acquired tangible and intangible assets, the impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, and fair market value of Bakkt common units, incentive units and participation units. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management's estimates and assumptions and such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements are described in Note 2 in the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in this Report.