Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Significant judgments, estimates, and assumptions used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include, or may in the future include, those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, derivatives, intangible assets, including goodwill, and income taxes. 41 Table of Contents We could be subject to additional tax liabilities. We are subject to federal, state, and local income taxes in the U.S. Determining our provision for income taxes requires significant management judgment, and the ultimate tax outcome may be uncertain. In addition, our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by many factors, including, among other things, changes to our operating or holding structure, changes in the amounts of earnings in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in U.S. tax laws. Tax authorities may disagree with our calculation of research and development tax credits, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing, or other matters and assess additional taxes, interest, or penalties. While we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and we believe that our financial statements reflect adequate reserves to cover any such contingencies, there can be no assurance that the outcomes of such examinations will not have a material impact on our results of operations and cash flows. If tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. As of December 31, 2024, we had $219.0 million of U.S. federal and $231.4 million of U.S. state net operating loss (NOLs) carryforwards available to reduce future taxable income. While the federal NOL carryforwards can be carried forward indefinitely, state NOLs begin to expire in the year ending December 31, 2031. It is possible that we will not generate taxable income in time to use these NOL carryforwards before their expiration or at all. Under legislative changes made in December 2017, U.S. federal NOLs incurred in 2018 and in future years may be carried forward indefinitely, but the deductibility of such NOLs is limited. In addition, the federal and state NOL carryforwards and certain tax credits may be subject to significant limitations under Section 382 and Section 383 of the Code, respectively, and similar provisions of state law. Under those sections of the Code, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, the corporations ability to use its pre-change NOL carryforwards and other pre-change attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income or tax may be limited. In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5-percent stockholders that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. During 2024, we performed an analysis of an ownership changes for purposes of Section 382 and 383 of the Code. This analysis found that an ownership change occurred on December 2, 2024. As a result, our ability to utilize NOLs generated prior to that date is limited from the date of the change through 2028. This could lead to BigBear.ai or its subsidiaries retaining less cash after paying U.S. federal and state income taxes in years when there is taxable income, compared to if the NOL utilization was not limited. This reduction in retained cash could negatively affect our operating results. Certain U.S. state tax authorities may assert that we have a state nexus and seek to impose state and local income taxes which could harm our results of operations. There is a risk that certain U.S. state tax authorities where we do not currently file a state income tax return could assert that we are liable for state and local income taxes based upon income or gross receipts allocable to such states. States are becoming increasingly aggressive in asserting a nexus for state income tax purposes. If a state tax authority successfully asserts that our activities give rise to a nexus, we could be subject to state and local taxation, including penalties and interest attributable to prior periods. Such tax assessments, penalties and interest may adversely impact our results of operations. Our results of operations may be harmed if we are required to collect sales or other related taxes for our license arrangements in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so. States and some local taxing jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. We collect and remit U.S. sales and use tax, value-added tax (VAT), and goods and services tax (GST) in several jurisdictions. It is possible, however, that we could face sales tax, VAT, or GST audits and that our liability for these taxes could exceed our estimates as state tax authorities could still assert that we are obligated to collect additional tax amounts from our customers and remit those taxes to those authorities. We could also be subject to audits for which we have not accrued tax liabilities. Jurisdictions may seek to impose incremental or new sales, use, or other tax collection obligations on us or may determine that such taxes should have, but have not been, paid by us. 42 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Relationships and Business with the Public Sector A significant portion of our business depends on sales to the public/government sector, and our failure to receive and maintain government contracts or changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of the public sector could have a material adverse effect on our business. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from contracts with the federal government and government agencies, and we believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to depend on our successful procurement of government contracts. For example, we have historically derived, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenue from sales to agencies of the U.S. federal government, either directly by us or through other government contractors. Our perceived relationship with the U.S. government could adversely affect our business prospects in certain non-U.S. geographies or with certain non-U.S. governments. Sales to government agencies are subject to a number of challenges and risks. Selling to government agencies can be highly competitive, expensive, and time-consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that these efforts will generate a sale. We also must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of contracts, which provide public sector customers rights, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts. Further, governmental and highly regulated entities may demand contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements and may be less favorable than terms agreed with private sector customers. In our experience, government entities often require shorter term subscriptions than our private sector customers due to budget cycles. Government entities and highly regulated organizations typically have longer implementation cycles, sometimes require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition, can have more complex IT and data environments, and may expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. Contracts with governmental entities may also include preferential pricing terms, including, but not limited to, most favored customer pricing. In the event that we are successful in being awarded a government contract, such award may be subject to appeals, disputes, or litigation, including but not limited to bid protests by unsuccessful bidders. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects may be adversely affected by certain events or activities, including, but not limited to: changes in fiscal or contracting policies or decreases in available government funding; changes in government programs or applicable requirements; restrictions in the grant of personnel security clearances to our employees; ability to maintain facility clearances required to perform on classified contracts for U.S. federal government agencies; changes in the political environment, including before or after a change to the leadership within the government administration, and any resulting uncertainty or changes in policy or priorities and resultant funding; changes in the governments attitude towards the capabilities that we offer, especially in the areas of national defense, cybersecurity, digital identity and critical infrastructure, including the financial, energy, telecommunications, and healthcare sectors; changes in the governments attitude towards us as a company or our software as a viable or acceptable software solution; appeals, disputes, or litigation relating to government procurement, including but not limited to bid protests by unsuccessful bidders on potential or actual awards of contracts to us or our partners by the government; the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations; budgetary constraints, including automatic reductions as a result of sequestration or similar measures and constraints imposed by any lapses in appropriations for the federal government or certain of its departments and 43 Table of Contents agencies; influence by, or competition from, third parties with respect to pending, new, or existing contracts with government customers; changes in political or social attitudes with respect to security or data privacy issues; potential delays or changes in the government appropriations or procurement processes, including as a result of events such as war, including the ongoing conflicts in Ukraine, the Middle East, and Africa, incidents of terrorism, natural disasters, and public health concerns or epidemics; and increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays caused by other factors outside of our control, such as performance failures of our subcontractors. Any such event or activity, among others, could cause governments and governmental agencies to delay or refrain from purchasing our software and services in the future, reduce the size or payment amounts of purchases from existing or new government customers, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects. We have government customers, which subjects us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from contracts with U.S. defense and intelligence agencies and intend to enter into additional contracts with the U.S. government in the future. This subjects us to statutes and regulations applicable to companies doing business with the government, including the Federal Acquisition Regulation. These government contracts customarily contain provisions that give the government substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, which in certain cases are unfavorable to contractors. For instance, most U.S. government agencies include provisions that allow the government to unilaterally terminate contracts, in whole or in part, for convenience, and in that event, the counterparty to the contract may generally recover only its incurred or committed costs and settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, the defaulting party may be liable for any extra costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered supplies or services from another source. Some of our federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the U.S. Congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. In addition, government contracts normally contain additional compliance requirements that may increase our costs of doing business, reduce our profits, and expose us to liability for failure to comply with these terms and conditions. These requirements include, for example: specialized disclosure and accounting requirements unique to government contracts; financial and compliance audits that may result in potential liability for price adjustments, recoupment of government funds after such funds have been spent, civil and criminal penalties, or administrative sanctions such as suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. government; public disclosures of certain contract and company information; and mandatory socioeconomic compliance requirements, including labor requirements, non-discrimination and affirmative action programs and environmental compliance requirements. Government contracts are also generally subject to greater scrutiny by the government, which can initiate reviews, audits and investigations regarding our compliance with government contract requirements. In addition, if we fail to comply with government contracting laws, regulations and contract requirements, our contracts may be subject to termination, and we may be subject to financial and/or other liability under our contracts, the Federal Civil False Claims Act (including the possibility of treble damages and significant penalties), or criminal law. In particular, the False Claims Acts whistleblower provisions also allow private individuals, including present and former employees, to sue on behalf of the U.S. government. Any penalties, damages, fines, suspension, or damages could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. 44 Table of Contents We have contracts with government agencies that involve classified programs, which may limit investor insight into portions of our business. We derive a portion of our revenue from programs with government agencies that are subject to security restrictions (e.g., contracts involving classified information, classified contracts, and classified programs), which preclude the dissemination of information and technology that is classified for national security purposes under applicable law and regulation. In general, access to classified information, technology, facilities, or programs requires appropriate personnel security clearances, is subject to additional contract oversight and potential liability, and may also require appropriate facility clearances and other specialized infrastructure. In the event of a security incident involving classified information, technology, facilities, or programs or personnel holding clearances, we may be subject to legal, financial, operational, and reputational harm. We are limited in our ability to provide specific information about these classified programs, their risks, or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. As a result, investors have less insight into our classified programs than our other businesses and therefore less ability to fully evaluate the risks related to our classified business or our business overall. However, historically the business risks associated with our work on classified programs have not differed materially from those of our other government contracts. Our business could be adversely affected if our employees cannot obtain and maintain required personnel security clearances, or we cannot establish and maintain a required facility security clearance. Certain government contracts may require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances and may require us to maintain a facility security clearance to comply with U.S. and international government agency requirements. Many governments have strict security clearance requirements for personnel who perform work in support of classified programs. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees typically involves a lengthy process, and it can be difficult to identify, recruit, and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain security clearances in a timely manner, or at all, or if our employees who hold security clearances are unable to maintain their clearances or terminate employment with us, then we may be unable to comply with relevant U.S. and international government agency requirements, or our customers requiring classified work could choose to terminate or decide not to renew one or more contracts requiring employees to obtain or maintain security clearances upon expiration. To the extent we are not able to obtain or maintain a facility security clearance, we may not be able to bid on or win new classified contracts, and existing contracts requiring a facility security clearance could be terminated, either of which would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Most of our customer contracts may be terminated by the customer at any time for convenience and may contain other provisions permitting the customer to discontinue contract performance, and if terminated contracts are not replaced, our results of operations may differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. In addition, our contracts with government customers often contain provisions with additional rights and remedies favorable to such customers that are not typically found in commercial contracts. Most of our contracts, including our government contracts, contain termination for convenience provisions. Customers that terminate such contracts may also be entitled to a pro rata refund of the amount of the customer deposit for the period of time remaining in the contract term after the applicable termination notice period expires. Government contracts often contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide government customers with additional rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These rights and remedies allow government customers, among other things, to: terminate existing contracts for convenience with short notice; reduce orders under or otherwise modify contracts; for contracts subject to the Truth in Negotiations Act, reduce the contract price or cost where it was increased because a contractor or subcontractor furnished cost or pricing data during negotiations that was not complete, accurate, and current; for some contracts, (i) demand a refund, make a forward price adjustment, or terminate a contract for default if a contractor provided inaccurate or incomplete data during the contract negotiation process and (ii) reduce the contract price under triggering circumstances, including the revision of price lists or other documents upon which the contract award was predicated; cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; 45 Table of Contents decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract or issue task orders in connection with indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts; claim rights in solutions, systems, or technology produced by us, appropriate such work-product for their continued use without continuing to contract for our services, and disclose such work-product to third parties, including other government agencies and our competitors, which could harm our competitive position; prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency due to a finding of organizational conflicts of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that would give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors, or the existence of conflicting roles that might bias a contractors judgment; subject the award of contracts to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest and may also result in a requirement to resubmit offers for the contract or in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract; suspend or debar us from doing business with the applicable government agency; and control or prohibit the export of our services. If a customer were to unexpectedly terminate, cancel, or decline to exercise an option to renew with respect to one or more of our significant contracts, or if a government were to suspend or debar us from doing business with such government, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially harmed. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or contractual provisions applicable to our business could cause us to lose government customers or our ability to contract with the U.S. and other governments. As a government contractor, we must comply with laws, regulations, and contractual provisions relating to the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts and inclusion on government contract vehicles, which affect how we and our partners do business with government agencies. As a result of actual or perceived noncompliance with government contracting laws, regulations, or contractual provisions, we may be subject to audits and internal investigations which may prove costly to our business financially, divert management time, or limit our ability to continue selling our software and services to our government customers. These laws and regulations may impose other added costs on our business, and failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and requirements, including non-compliance in the past, could lead to claims for damages from our channel partners, penalties, and termination of contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting for a period of time with government agencies. Any such damages, penalties, disruption, or limitation in our ability to do business with a government could adversely impact, and could have a material adverse effect on, our business, results of operations, financial condition, public perception, and growth prospects. Evolving government procurement policies and increased emphasis on cost over performance could adversely affect our business. Federal, state, local, and foreign governments and government agencies could implement procurement policies that negatively impact our profitability. Changes in procurement policy favoring more non-commercial purchases, different pricing, or evaluation criteria or government contract negotiation offers based upon the customers view of what our pricing should be may affect the predictability of our margins on such contracts or make it more difficult to compete on certain types of programs. Governments and government agencies are continually evaluating their contract pricing and financing practices, and we have no assurance regarding the full scope and recurrence of any study and what changes will be proposed, if any, and their impact on our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations. Increased competition and bid protests in a budget-constrained environment may make it more difficult to maintain our financial performance and customer relationships. A substantial portion of our business is awarded through competitive bidding. Even if we are successful in obtaining an award, we may encounter bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on any specific award. Bid protests could result, among other things, in significant expenses to us, contract modifications, or even loss of the contract award. Even where a bid protest does not result in the loss of a contract award, the resolution can extend the time until contract activity can begin and, as a result, delay the 46 Table of Contents recognition of revenue. We also may not be successful in our efforts to protest or challenge any bids for contracts that were not awarded to us, and we would be required to incur significant time and expense in such efforts. In addition, governments and agencies increasingly have relied on competitive contract award types, including IDIQ and other multi-award contracts, which have the potential to create pricing pressure and to increase our costs by requiring us to submit multiple bids and proposals. Multi-award contracts require us to make sustained efforts to obtain orders under the contract. The competitive bidding process entails substantial costs and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. We are experiencing increased competition while, at the same time, many of our customers are facing budget pressures, cutting costs, identifying more affordable solutions, performing certain work internally rather than hiring contractors, and reducing product development cycles. To remain competitive, we must maintain consistently strong customer relationships, seek to understand customer priorities, and provide superior performance, advanced technology solutions, and service at an affordable cost with the agility that our customers require to satisfy their objectives in an increasingly price competitive environment. Failure to do so could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The U.S. government may procure non-commercial developmental services rather than commercial products, which could materially impact our future U.S. government business and revenue. U.S. government agencies, including our customers, often award large developmental item and service contracts to build custom software rather than firm fixed-price contracts for commercial products. The U.S. government is required to procure commercial items and services to the maximum extent practicable in accordance with FASA, 10 U.S.C. 2377; 41 U.S.C. 3307, and the U.S. government may instead decide to procure non-commercial developmental items and services if commercial items and services are not practicable. In order to challenge a government decision to procure developmental items and services instead of commercial items and services, we would be required to file a bid protest at the agency level and/or with the Government Accountability Office. This can result in contentious communications with government agency legal and contracting offices and may escalate to litigation in federal court. The results of any future challenges or potential litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, however, and any dispute or litigation with the U.S. government may not be resolved in our favor; moreover, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, such disputes or litigation could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. These proceedings could adversely affect our reputation and relationship with government customers and could also result in negative publicity, which could harm customer and public perception of our business. Any change in or repeal of FASA, or a contrary interpretation of FASA by a court of competent jurisdiction, could adversely affect our competitive position for U.S. federal government contracts. A decline in the U.S. and other government budgets, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, or delays in contract awards may significantly and adversely affect our future revenue and limit our growth prospects. Because we generate a substantial portion of our revenue from contracts with U.S. government agencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected by government spending caps or changes in government budgetary priorities, as well as by delays in the government budget process, program starts, or the award of contracts or orders under existing contract vehicles, including as a result of a new U.S. administration or changing geopolitical conditions. Current U.S. government spending levels for defense-related and other programs may not be sustained beyond government fiscal year 2025. Future spending and program authorizations may not increase or may decrease or shift to programs in areas in which we do not provide services or are less likely to be awarded contracts. Such changes in spending authorizations and budgetary priorities may occur as a result of shifts in spending priorities from defense-related and other programs as a result of competing demands for federal funds and the number and intensity of military conflicts, including the ongoing conflicts in Ukraine, the Middle East, and Africa, or other factors. The U.S. government also conducts periodic reviews of U.S. defense strategies and priorities which may shift Department of Defense budgetary priorities, reduce overall spending, or delay contract or task order awards for defense-related programs from which we would otherwise expect to derive a significant portion of our future revenue. A significant decline in overall U.S. government spending, a significant shift in spending priorities, the substantial reduction or elimination of defense-related programs, or significant budget-related delays in contract or task order awards for large programs could adversely affect our future revenue and limit our growth prospects. 47 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Convertible Notes Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the Convertible Notes. In the future, we may seek to raise or borrow additional funds to expand our product or business development efforts, make acquisitions or otherwise fund or grow our business and operations. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to the holders of the Convertible Notes, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; making it more difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; possibly placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms that we find acceptable; In addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. The terms of our Indenture that governs the 2029 Convertible Notes allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations; however, there is no assurance that additional financing will be available to us on terms favorable to us, if at all. In addition, if new debt is added to the then existing debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. We may be able to incur substantial indebtedness. This could exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the Convertible Notes. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future and this could result in additional risk. Although the Indenture contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the Convertible Notes, subject to any collateral arrangements, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably in any proceeds distributed in connection with our insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up as a company. This may have the effect of reducing the amount of proceeds paid to our creditors and shareholders. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. If new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the related risks that we now face could increase. Any of these risks could materially impact our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our obligation to offer to redeem the Convertible Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change will be triggered only by certain specified transactions, and may discourage a transaction that could be beneficial to the holders of our Common Stock and the Convertible Notes. The term fundamental change in our Indentures is limited to certain specified transactions and may not include other events that might adversely affect our financial condition or the market value of the Convertible Notes or our common stock. The delisting of our shares from trading on the NYSE is a fundamental change. Our obligation to offer to redeem the notes upon a fundamental change would not necessarily afford holders of such notes protection in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, merger or similar transaction involving us. If a fundamental change occurs, there are no assurances that we will have sufficient funds to redeem the Convertible Notes. See Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations under the Convertible Notes. 48 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, including our Convertible Notes, depends on our financial condition and results of operations, which in turn are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on, among other things, the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments and the Indentures that govern the Convertible Notes may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of such cash flows and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Further, our Indenture that governs the 2029 Convertible Notes contains provisions will restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations under the Convertible Notes. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, to the extent applicable, we will be in default and holders of the Convertible Notes and our other indebtedness, could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If we breach the covenants under our debt instruments, we would be in default under such instruments. The holders of such indebtedness could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. All of these events could result in your losing your entire investment in the Convertible Notes. The Indentures contain terms which restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The Indenture governing our 2029 Convertible Notes contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: incur indebtedness or liens; make restricted payments; issue preferred stock or disqualified stock; transact with affiliates; sell material intellectual property; and make investments or dispositions Our Indenture governing our 2029 Convertible Notes also require us to comply with a minimum liquidity covenant. Our Indenture governing our 2026 Convertible Notes and related documents do not contain covenants similar to those described above, but both 49 Table of Contents of our Indentures governing our Convertible Notes contain a substantially similar covenant that restricts our ability to consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the 2026 Convertible Notes and 2029 Convertible Notes, respectively. The covenants in the Indentures that govern the Convertible Notes are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. These covenants may limit our ability to optimally operate our business. In addition, our Credit Agreement requires that we meet certain financial tests, including a leverage ratio test. These restrictive covenants could adversely affect our ability to: finance our operations; make needed capital expenditures; make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into joint ventures; withstand a future downturn in our business, the industry or the economy in general; engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our best interest; and plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. These restrictions may affect our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of these restrictions, we will be limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date and the termination of future funding commitments by our lenders. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or cannot refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Indentures contain cross-default provisions that could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. A breach of the covenants under our Indentures could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. If we were unable to repay amounts due and payable under the Indenture those noteholders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our guarantors may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. Additionally, we may not be able to borrow money from other lenders to enable us to refinance our indebtedness. The 2026 Convertible Notes are effectively subordinated to our indebtedness under the 2029 Convertible Notes and our other secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness. The 2029 Convertible Notes are secured by substantially all of our assets while the 2026 Convertible Notes are unsecured. As a result, the 2026 Convertible Notes and the related guarantees are effectively subordinated to our existing and future secured indebtedness (including any indebtedness under the 2029 Convertible Notes) with respect to the assets that secure that indebtedness. The effect of this subordination is that upon a default in payment on, or the acceleration of, any of our secured indebtedness, or in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization of our company, the proceeds from the sale of assets securing our secured indebtedness are available to pay obligations on the 2026 Convertible Notes only after all secured indebtedness has been paid in full. In connection with the Exchange Transaction entered into on December 19, 2024, the Bank of America Senior Revolver was terminated, effective concurrently with the closing of the Exchange Transaction. There were no outstanding borrowings under the Secured Revolving Credit Facility prior to its termination. The holders of the 2026 50 Table of Contents Convertible Notes may receive less, ratably, than the holders of secured indebtedness in the event of our or any of the guarantors bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization. The Convertible Notes are structurally subordinated to all obligations of our existing and future subsidiaries that are not and do not become guarantors of the Convertible Notes. Each of our existing and future domestic restricted subsidiaries that is a borrower under or that guarantees obligations under the Indentures or that guarantees certain of our other indebtedness is a guarantor of the 2026 Convertible Notes (subject to certain exceptions). Each of our existing and future subsidiaries is a guarantor of the 2029 Convertible Notes (subject to certain exceptions). Our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Convertible Notes will have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay amounts due under the Convertible Notes or to make any funds available to pay those amounts, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payment. The Convertible Notes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other obligations of any non-guarantor subsidiary such that in the event of insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of any subsidiary that is not a guarantor, all of that subsidiarys creditors (including trade creditors and preferred stockholders, if any) would be entitled to payment in full out of that subsidiarys assets before the holders of the Convertible Notes would be entitled to any payment. In addition, our subsidiaries that provide, or will provide, guarantees of the Convertible Notes (and related security interest in collateral granted by such subsidiary in the case of the 2029 Convertible Notes) will be automatically released from those guarantees (and security interest in the case of 2029 Convertible Notes) upon the occurrence of certain events. If any guarantee is released with respect to the 2026 Convertible Notes or if any guarantee and related security interest with respect to the 2029 Convertible Notes are released, no holder of the 2026 Convertible Notes or the 2029 Convertible Notes, as applicable, will have a claim as a creditor against that subsidiary, and the indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables and preferred stock, if any), whether secured or unsecured, of that subsidiary will be effectively senior to the claim of any holders of the 2026 Convertible Notes or the 2029 Convertible Notes, as applicable. Federal and state fraudulent transfer laws may permit a court to void the Convertible Notes or the guarantees and, if that occurs, the noteholders may not receive any payments on the Convertible Notes. Federal and state fraudulent transfer and conveyance statutes may apply to the issuance of the Convertible Notes and the incurrence of the guarantees of the Convertible Notes. Under federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws, which may vary from state to state, the Convertible Notes or the guarantees thereof could be voided as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance if BigBear.ai or a guarantor, as applicable: issued the Convertible Notes or incurred its guarantee with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors or received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for either issuing the Convertible Notes or incurring the guarantee and, in the case of (2) only, one of the following is also true at the time thereof: the issuer or such guarantor, as applicable, was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the Convertible Notes or the incurrence of its guarantees; the issuance of the Convertible Notes or the incurrence of its guarantees left the issuer or such guarantor, as applicable, with an unreasonably small amount of capital or assets to carry on the business; the issuer or such guarantor intended to, or believed that it would, incur indebtedness beyond its ability to pay as they mature; or the issuer or such guarantor was a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against it if, in either case, the judgment is unsatisfied after final judgment. As a general matter, value is given for a transfer or an obligation if, in exchange for the transfer or obligation, property is transferred or a valid antecedent debt is secured or satisfied. A court would likely find that a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for its guarantee to the extent the guarantor did not obtain a reasonably equivalent benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the Convertible Notes. We cannot be certain as to the standards a court would use to determine whether or not we or a guarantor was insolvent at the relevant time or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, whether the Convertible Notes or the guarantees would be 51 Table of Contents subordinated to other indebtedness. In general, however, a court would deem an entity insolvent if: the sum of its indebtedness, including contingent and unliquidated liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing indebtedness, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its indebtedness as it became due. If a court were to find that the issuance of the Convertible Notes or the incurrence of a guarantee was a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, the court could void the payment obligations under the Convertible Notes or that guarantee, could subordinate the Convertible Notes or that guarantee to our presently existing and future indebtedness or of the relevant guarantor or could require the holders of the Convertible Notes to repay any amounts received with respect to the Convertible Notes or that guarantee. In the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, the noteholders may not receive any repayment on the Convertible Notes. Further, the voiding of the Convertible Notes could result in an event of default with respect to our and our subsidiaries other indebtedness that could result in acceleration of that indebtedness. Although each guarantee entered into in connection with the Convertible Notes will contain a provision intended to limit that guarantors liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its guarantee to be a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer, this provision may not be effective as a legal matter to protect those guarantees from being voided under fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer law or otherwise, or may reduce that guarantors obligation to an amount that effectively makes its guarantee worthless. In addition, as noted above, any payment by us pursuant to the Convertible Notes or by a guarantor under a guarantee made at a time we or such guarantor was found to be insolvent could be voided and required to be returned to the issuer or such guarantor if such payment is made to an insider within a one-year period prior to a bankruptcy filing or within 90 days for any non-insider party and such payment would give such insider or non-insider party (as the case may be) more than such creditors would have received in a distribution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in a hypothetical Chapter 7 case. Finally, as a court of equity, the bankruptcy court may subordinate the claims in respect of the Convertible Notes to other claims against us under the principle of equitable subordination if the court determines that (1) the holder of Convertible Notes engaged in some type of inequitable conduct, (2) the inequitable conduct resulted in injury to our other creditors or conferred an unfair advantage upon the holders of Convertible Notes and (3) equitable subordination is not inconsistent with the provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code. There is limited trading and liquidity for the Convertible Notes, and holders ability to sell the Convertible Notes could be limited. There is limited trading and liquidity of the Convertible Notes and current markets for the Convertible Notes may not persist. We cannot assure the noteholders as to the liquidity of the market for the Convertible Notes, their ability to sell their Convertible Notes or the price at which they would be able to sell their Convertible Notes. Future trading prices of the Convertible Notes will depend on many factors, including, among other things, prevailing interest rates, our operating results and the market for similar securities. The liquidity of such trading markets and the trading price of such notes may be adversely affected by changes in our financial performance or prospects and by changes in the financial performance of or prospects for companies in our industry generally. Even though the Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of our Common Stock, the terms of the Convertible Notes will not provide protection against some types of important corporate events. The Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of our Common Stock. Certain important corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalizations, that would increase the level of our indebtedness, would not constitute a fundamental change under the Convertible Notes. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. There can be no assurances that any rating assigned to our debt securities will remain for any given period of time or that a rating 52 Table of Contents will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agencys judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the Convertible Notes. Credit ratings are not recommendations to purchase, hold or sell the Convertible Notes, and may be revised or withdrawn at any time. Additionally, credit ratings may not reflect the potential effect of risks relating to the structure or marketing of the Convertible Notes. Any future lowering of our ratings likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing. If any credit rating initially assigned to the Convertible Notes is subsequently lowered or withdrawn for any reason, our noteholders may not be able to resell their Convertible Notes at a favorable price or at all. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We have convertible debt that may be converted into Common Stock in the future, which would cause immediate and substantial dilution to our stockholders. On December 7, 2021, we issued the 2026 Convertible Notes in the aggregate principal amount of $200.0 million. On May 29, 2022, pursuant to Section 14.04(f) of the Indenture, the Conversion Rate applicable to the notes was adjusted to 94.2230 (previously 86.9565) shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes, as a result of the conversion rate reset provisions therein. On December 19, 2024 we entered into privately negotiated exchange agreements (each, an Exchange Agreement) with a limited number of holders of our 2026 Convertible Notes, to exchange the 2026 Convertible Notes for new senior secured convertible notes due 2029 (the 2029 Convertible Notes, together with the 2026 Convertible Notes, the Convertible Notes). The conversion rate is 281.4491 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2029 Convertible Notes, which represents an initial conversion price of $3.553 per share of our common stock. In addition, if certain corporate events that constitute a Make-Whole Fundamental Change (as defined in the Indentures to the Convertible Notes) occur, then the conversion rate will, in certain circumstances, be increased for a specified period of time. The 2029 Convertible Notes bear interest at a rate of (i) 6.0% per annum, if interest is paid in cash and (ii) 7.0% per annum, if we elect, subject to certain conditions, to pay interest in kind with shares of our common stock. To the extent that the certain liquidity conditions of us and our subsidiaries is not satisfied as of the last business day of any calendar month, then with respect to the period applicable to the interest payment date immediately following the month in which such liquidity condition is not satisfied, the interest rate will be (i) 9.00% per annum, if interest is paid in cash and (ii) 10.00% per annum, if we elect, subject to certain conditions, to pay interest in kind with shares of our common stock (it being understood that such increased rate shall apply solely for such six-month period applicable to such interest payment date). The issuance of shares of Common Stock upon any conversion of the Convertible Notes and the issuance of shares of Common Stock to the extent interest is paid in kind will result in dilution to the interests of other stockholders. Our only significant asset is our ownership interest in our subsidiaries and such ownership may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable us to pay any dividends on our Common Stock or satisfy our other financial obligations. We have no direct operations and no significant assets other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. We will depend on our subsidiaries for distributions, loans and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, including our expenses as a publicly traded company and to pay any dividends with respect to our Common Stock. The financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. The earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable us to pay any dividends on our Common Stock or satisfy our other financial obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions, loans and other payments to us for the purposes described above and for any other purpose may be limited by the terms of the 2029 Convertible Notes, and will be subject to the negative covenants set forth therein. Because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on shares of common stock for the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell shares of Common Stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. We may retain future earnings, if any, for future operations, expansion and debt repayment and have no current plans to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any decision to declare and pay dividends as a public company in the future will be made at the discretion of the Board and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash 53 Table of Contents requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that the Board may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by covenants of any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our Common Stock unless you sell your Common Stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. We have certain financial instruments, including warrants and the convertible features of our 2029 Convertible Notes and our 2026 Convertible Notes, that are accounted for as derivative liabilities and are recorded at fair value upon issuance with changes in fair value each period reported in earnings, which may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We have certain financial instruments, including warrants and the convertible features of our 2029 Convertible Notes and 2026 Convertible Notes, that are accounted for in accordance with the guidance of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The financial instruments that are accounted for as derivatives include the 2029 Notes Conversion Option, the 2026 Notes Conversion Option, IPO private warrants, Private Placement (PIPE) warrants, and warrants issued under the registered direct offering (RDO warrants). These financial instruments do not meet the criteria for equity treatment and are classified as liabilities measured at fair value. During the years ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023 we recognized net losses of $107.7 million and $7.4 million respectively, related to changes in the fair value of these financial instruments, with such changes presented in net increase (decrease) in fair value of derivatives on the consolidated statements of operations. The estimated fair value of our derivative liabilities related to our warrants, including the 2024 RDO Warrants, the 2024 PIPE Warrants, and the IPO Private Warrants was $54.7 million as of December 31, 2024. The 2024 RDO Warrants and 2024 PIPE Warrants were fully exercised during the first quarter of 2025. The estimated fair value of our derivative liabilities related to our 2029 Convertible Notes was $115.8 million as of December 31, 2024. As of the date of this filing, approximately $57.7 million of the 2029 Convertible Notes have been voluntarily converted by noteholders. The impact of changes in fair value on earnings may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. The price of our Common Stock has been and could remain volatile and a market for our securities may not continue, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. The market price of our Common Stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. From January 1, 2023 through March 21, 2025, the market price of our Common Stock, which is listed on the NYSE, fluctuated from a high of $9.78 per share in the first quarter of 2025 to a low of $0.73 in the first quarter of 2023. Additionally, the price of our securities has fluctuated significantly due to general economic conditions and forecasts, our general business condition and the release of our financial reports and other announcements. If our securities become delisted from the NYSE for any reason, and are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board (an inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities that is not a national securities exchange) or if an active trading market for our securities is not otherwise sustained, their liquidity and price may be more limited and you may be unable to sell your securities. In the past, we have not satisfied certain continued listing requirements of the NYSE and could fail to satisfy those requirements again in the future, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our Common Stock is listed on the NYSE under the symbol BBAI. As previously disclosed, on December 20, 2022, we received written notice from the NYSE that the average closing price of the Companys Common Stock over a prior 30 consecutive trading day period was below $1.00 per share, which is the minimum average closing price per share required to maintain listing on the NYSE under Section 802.01C of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. Although we have since cured this deficiency and our Common Stock continues to trade on the NYSE, it is possible that we could fall out of compliance again in the future. If the NYSE delists our shares from trading on its exchange for failure to meet the listing standards, we and our stockholders could face significant material adverse consequences including: a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; 54 Table of Contents a determination that our Common Stock is a penny stock which will require brokers trading in our Common Stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for shares of our Common Stock; being required to repurchase the Convertible Notes at a price equal to the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest; a limited amount of analyst coverage; and a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Risk Related to the Acquisition of Pangiam BigBear.ai stockholders may not realize a benefit from the Pangiam Acquisition commensurate with the ownership dilution they will experience in connection with the Pangiam Acquisition. If we are unable to realize the full strategic and financial benefits currently anticipated from the Pangiam Acquisition, BigBear.ai stockholders will have experienced dilution of their ownership interests without receiving a commensurate benefit, or only receiving part of the commensurate benefit to the extent the combined company is able to realize only part of the strategic and financial benefits currently anticipated from the Pangiam Acquisition. BigBear.ai may not achieve the benefits it expects from the Pangiam Acquisition, which may have an adverse effect on both BigBear.ais and Pangiams business, financial condition and operating results. BigBear.ai consummated the Pangiam Acquisition with the expectation that the Pangiam Acquisition will result in benefits to the combined company. Post-acquisition challenges include, among others, the following: retaining the management and employees of the combined company; attracting and hiring new personnel key to the growth and development of the combined company; retaining existing strategic partners and suppliers for the combined company; and attracting new customers while maintaining existing customers. If the combined company is not successful in addressing these and other challenges, then the benefits of the Pangiam Acquisition may not be realized and, as a result, the combined companys operating results and the market price of BigBear.ai Common Stock may be adversely affected. The combined company may be unable to integrate successfully the businesses of BigBear.ai and Pangiam and realize the anticipated benefits of the Pangiam Acquisition. The Pangiam Acquisition involves the combination of two companies which previously operated as independent companies. The combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating its business practices and operations. The combined company may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the Pangiam Acquisition if the integration process takes longer than expected or is more costly than expected. Some of the potential difficulties the combined company may encounter in the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine the businesses of BigBear.ai and Pangiam in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the anticipated benefits from the Pangiam Acquisition, which would result in those benefits not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; creation of uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses. 55 Table of Contents Pangiams potential products and technologies are in early stages of development. The development of new technology products is a highly risky undertaking. Pangiams technologies and products will require additional research, development and trials. There can be no assurance that any future research, development or trial efforts will result in viable products. Future results may be negative or insufficient to allow the surviving company to pursue further development or to successfully market its products, if approved. Obtaining needed data and results may take longer than planned or may not be obtained at all. Any such delays or setbacks could have an adverse effect on the ability of the surviving company to achieve its financial goals. General Risk Factors Increasing attention to, and evolving expectations for, environmental, social, and governance (ESG) initiatives could increase our costs, harm our reputation, or otherwise adversely impact our business. Companies across industries are facing increasing scrutiny from a variety of stakeholders related to their ESG practices. Expectations regarding voluntary ESG initiatives and disclosures may result in increased costs (including but not limited to increased costs related to compliance, stakeholder engagement, contracting, and insurance), changes in demand for certain offerings, enhanced compliance or disclosure obligations, or other adverse impacts to our business, financial condition, or results of operations. While we may at times engage in voluntary initiatives (such as voluntary disclosures, certifications, or goals, among others) to improve the ESG profile of our company and/or offerings or to respond to stakeholder demands, such initiatives may be costly and may not have the desired effect. Expectations around companies management of ESG matters continue to evolve rapidly, in many instances due to factors that are out of our control. We may experience pressure to make commitments relating to ESG matters that affect us; however, we may not agree that particular initiatives will be appropriate for our business, and we may not be able to implement such initiatives because of potential costs or technical or operational obstacles, which may adversely impact our reputation or stakeholder relations. If we do not, or are perceived by stakeholders to not, take sufficient action to respond to ESG matters, we may be subject to investor or regulator engagement on our ESG initiatives and disclosures, even if such initiatives are currently voluntary. Certain market participants, including major institutional investors and capital providers, use third-party benchmarks and scores to assess companies ESG profiles in making investment or voting decisions. Unfavorable ESG ratings could lead to increased negative investor sentiment towards us, which could negatively impact our share price as well as our access to and cost of capital. To the extent ESG matters negatively impact our reputation, it may also impede our ability to compete as effectively to attract and retain employees or customers, which may adversely impact our operations. In addition, we expect there will likely be increasing levels of regulation, disclosure-related and otherwise, with respect to ESG matters. For example, the SEC has proposed requirements to disclose a variety of climate-related information, in addition to other rules, which could require us to incur significant costs for monitoring and compliance. This and other regulations will likely lead to increased costs as well as scrutiny that could heighten all of the risks identified in this risk factor. Additionally, many of our customers and suppliers may be subject to similar expectations, which may augment or create additional risks, including risks that may not be known to us. Adverse economic conditions or reduced technology spending may adversely impact our business. Our business depends on the economic health of our current and prospective customers and overall demand for technology. In addition, the purchase of our software and services is often discretionary and typically involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Global economic and business activities continue to face widespread macroeconomic uncertainties, including labor shortages and supply chain disruptions, inflation, interest rate fluctuations, bank failures and monetary supply shifts, as well as recession risks, which may continue for an extended period and which could result in our customer prospects and our existing customers experiencing slowdowns in their businesses, which in turn may result in reduced demand for our products, lengthening of sales cycles, loss of customers, and difficulties in collections. Our vendors and suppliers may experience, or may continue to experience, disruptions in their supply chains, which may result in service interruptions or additional operating expenses, and may increase the price at which our vendors and suppliers are willing to sell their products to us. Over the past two years, the United States, the EU, and the U.K. have experienced historically high levels of inflation. In response to high levels of inflation and recession fears, the U.S. Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, and the Bank of England have raised, and may continue to raise, interest rates and implement fiscal policy interventions. Even if these interventions lower inflation, they may also reduce economic growth rates, create a recession, and have other similar effects. A further downturn in economic conditions, global political and economic uncertainty, a lack of availability of credit, a reduction in business confidence and activity, the curtailment of government or corporate spending, public health concerns or emergencies, financial market volatility, and other factors have in the past and may in the future affect the industries to which we sell our software and services. Our customers may suffer from reduced operating budgets, which could cause them to defer or forego purchases of our software or services. 56 Table of Contents Moreover, competitors may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers, and the increased pace of consolidation in certain industries may result in reduced overall spending on our offerings. Uncertainty about global and regional economic conditions, including the ongoing conflicts in Ukraine, the Middle East, and Africa, a downturn in the technology sector or any sectors in which our customers operate, or a reduction in information technology spending even if economic conditions are stable, could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our software and services, material default rates among our customers, reduced sales of our software or services, and lower or no growth. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any crises, economic slowdown, or any subsequent recovery generally, or for any industry in particular. Although certain aspects of the effects of a crisis or an economic slowdown may provide potential new opportunities for our business, we cannot guarantee that the net impact of any such events will not be materially negative. Accordingly, if the conditions in the general economy and the markets in which we operate worsen from present levels, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have and will incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the listing standards of the NYSE, and other applicable securities rules and regulations. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems, and resources. For example, the Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports with respect to our business and results of operations. As a result of the complexity involved in complying with the rules and regulations applicable to public companies, our managements attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Although we have already hired additional employees to assist us in complying with these requirements, we may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants, which will increase our operating expenses. Additionally, as a public company subject to additional rules and regulations and oversight, we may not have the same flexibility we had as a private company. In addition, changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs, and making some activities more time-consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest substantial resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of managements time and attention from business operations to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us, and our business may be harmed. As a public company, we have experienced increased costs for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, and qualified executive officers. As a result of disclosure of information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in filings required of a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which may result in an increased risk of threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and results of operations could be harmed, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 57 Table of Contents We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that has resulted in the restatement of the Restated Financial Statements. If we are unable to remediate the material weakness, or if we identify additional material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure