Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us, our or the Company refer to GigCapital4, Inc. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Founder refer to GigAcquisitions4, LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek, may, might, plan, possible, potential, should, would and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys final prospectus for our initial public offering filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a newly organized Private-to-Public Equity (PPE) company, also known as a blank check company or special purpose acquisition vehicle, incorporated in the State of Delaware and formed for the purpose of acquiring, engaging in a share exchange, share reconstruction and amalgamation with, purchasing all or substantially all of the assets of, or engaging in any other similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities. We intend to effectuate our initial Business Combination using cash from the proceeds from the sale of units (the Units) in our initial public offering (the Offering), the sale of the units (the Private Placement Units) to our Founder and Underwriters, the sale of common stock to our Founder, our common equity or any preferred equity that we may create in accordance with the terms of our charter documents, debt, or a combination of cash, common or preferred equity and debt. The Units sold in the Offering each consisted of one share of common stock, and one-third (1/3) of one redeemable warrant to purchase our common stock (no fractional shares will be issued upon exercise of the warrants). The Private Placement Units were substantially similar to the Units sold in the Offering, but for certain differences in the warrants included in each of them. For clarity, the warrants included in the Units are referred to herein as the public warrants, and the warrants included in the Private Placement Units are referred to herein as the private warrants. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or the creation of one or more classes of preferred stock during our initial Business Combination: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in the Offering who would not have pre-emption rights in respect of any such issue; may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if the rights, preferences, designations and limitations attaching to the preferred shares are senior to those afforded our shares of common stock; could cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the share ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our shares of common stock. 18 Similarly, if we issue debt securities or otherwise incur significant indebtedness, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after our initial Business Combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if any document governing such debt contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our shares of common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. We expect to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to raise capital or to complete our initial Business Combination will be successful. Results of Operations and Known Trends or Future Events We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. For the period from December 4, 2020 (date of inception) through June 30, 2021, our only activities have been organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Offering and to identify a target business for the Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial Business Combination. We expect to generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and marketable securities held in the Trust Account at Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. in New York, New York with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee, which was funded after the Offering to hold an amount of cash and marketable securities equal to that raised in the Offering. There has been no significant change in our financial or trading position and no material adverse change has occurred since the date of our audited balance sheet of February 12, 2021 as filed with the SEC on February 18, 2021. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $1,741,439, which consisted of operating expenses of $1,537,939, a provision for income taxes of $1,849 and other expense from the change in fair value of warrant liability of $207,845, that were partially offset by interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $6,194. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $2,355,209, which consisted of operating expenses of $2,133,045, a provision for income taxes of $3,317 and other expense from the change in fair value of warrant liability of $229,962, that were partially offset by interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $11,115. Liquidity and Capital Resources During the period from December 4, 2020 (date of inception) to December 31, 2020, the Founder purchased 7,460,000 Founder Shares for an aggregate purchase price of $25,000, or $0.0033512 per share. On February 8, 2021, we effected a 1.2:1 stock split of our common stock, resulting in our Founder holding 8,952,000 Founder Shares. On February 11, 2021, the Company consummated the Initial Public Offering (IPO) of 35,880,000 Public Units, including the issuance of 4,680,000 Public Units as a result of the Underwriters exercise in full of their over-allotment option. The Public Units were sold at a price of $10.00 per Public Unit, generating gross proceeds to the Company of $358,800,000. 19 As of June 30, 2021, we held cash and marketable securities in the amount of $358,809,837 (including $9,837 of interest earned) in the trust account. The marketable securities consisted of money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940 which invest only in direct U.S. government obligations. Interest income earned from the funds held in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes . For the six months ended June 30, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $1,599,469, consisting of a net loss of $2,355,209, interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $11,115, plus an increase in prepaid expenses of $368,436 and other long-term assets of $194,363, that were partially offset by the increase in liabilities of $1,101,508, due to increase in accounts payable, including payable to related parties, and accrued liabilities of $1,098,191, income taxes payable of $3,317, and an increase in the fair value of the warrant liability of $229,962. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (which interest shall be net of taxes payable by us), to acquire a target business or businesses to complete our initial Business Combination and to pay our expenses relating thereto. We may withdraw interest to pay taxes. We estimate our annual franchise tax obligations to be approximately $200,000. Our annual income tax obligations will depend on the amount of interest and other income earned on the amounts held in the Trust Account. To the extent that our capital stock is used in whole or in part as consideration to affect our initial Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account as well as any other net proceeds not expended will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses. Such working capital funds could be used in a variety of ways including continuing or expanding the target business operations, for strategic acquisitions and for marketing, research and development of existing or new products. Such funds could also be used to repay any operating expenses or finders fees which we had incurred prior to the completion of our initial Business Combination if the funds available to us outside of the Trust Account were insufficient to cover such expenses. As of June 30, 2021, we had cash of $1,651,632 held outside the Trust Account. We believe that the proceeds not held in the Trust Account will be sufficient to allow us to operate for at least 24 months from the closing date of the Offering, assuming that a Business Combination is not consummated during that time. Over this time period, we intend to use these funds primarily for identifying and evaluating prospective acquisition candidates, performing business due diligence on prospective target businesses, traveling to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses, reviewing corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, selecting the target business to acquire and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Business Combination. If our estimates of the costs of undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating our initial Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to consummate our initial Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon consummation of our initial Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. In order to finance operating and/or transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Founder, executive officers, directors, or their affiliates may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds. In the event that our initial Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into units of the post-Business Combination entity at a price of $10.00 per unit at the option of the lender. The units would be identical to the Private Placement Units. Following our initial Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2021, we have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2021, we do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay our Founder a monthly fee of $25,000 for office space, administrative services and secretarial support. We began incurring these fees on February 9, 2021 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination or the liquidation of the Company. 20 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Emerging Growth Company Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when an accounting standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, will adopt the new or revised accounting standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. Net Loss Per Common Share Net loss per share of common stock is computed by dividing net loss by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period. We apply the two-class method in calculating the net loss per common share. Shares of common stock subject to possible redemption as of June 30, 2021 have been excluded from the calculation of the basic net loss per share since such shares, if redeemed, only participate in their pro rata share of the Trust Account earnings. When calculating our diluted net loss per share, we have not considered the effect of (i) the incremental number of shares of common stock to settle warrants sold in the Offering and Private Placement, as calculated using the treasury stock method and (ii) the shares issued to the Insiders representing 18,000 shares of common stock underlying restricted stock awards for the periods they were outstanding. Since we were in net loss position during the period after deducting net income attributable to common stock subject to redemption, diluted net loss per common share is the same as basic net loss per common share for the periods presented as the inclusion of all potential common shares outstanding would have been anti-dilutive. In accordance with the two-class method, our net loss is adjusted for net income that is attributable to common stock subject to redemption, as these shares only participate in the income of the Trust Account and not our losses. Accordingly, net loss per common share, basic and diluted, is calculated as follows: For the Three Months Ended For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2021 June 30, 2021 Net loss $ (1,741,439 ) $ (2,355,209 ) Less: net income attributable to common stock subject to redemption (3,232 ) (5,801 ) Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (1,744,671 ) $ (2,361,010 ) Weighted-average common shares outstanding, basic and diluted 11,662,811 11,022,704 Net loss per share common share, basic and diluted $ (0.15 ) $ (0.21 ) Common Stock subject to possible redemption We account for our common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption (if any) is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, as of June 30, 2021, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our condensed balance sheet. Warrant Liability The Company accounts for warrants for shares of the Companys common stock that are not indexed to its own stock as liabilities at fair value on the condensed balance sheet. The warrants are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date and any change in fair value is recognized as a component of other expense on the condensed statement of operations and comprehensive loss. 21 The Company will continue to adjust the liability for changes in fair value until the earlier of the exercise or expiration of the common stock warrants. At that time, the portion of the warrant liability related to the common stock warrants will be reclassified to additional paid-in capital. Recent Accounting Pronouncements We do not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements.