Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us, our or the Company refer to GigCapital4, Inc. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Founder refer to GigAcquisitions4, LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek, may, might, plan, possible, potential, should, would and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys final prospectus for our initial public offering filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a newly organized Private-to-Public Equity (PPE) company, also known as a blank check company or special purpose acquisition vehicle, incorporated in the State of Delaware and formed for the purpose of acquiring, engaging in a share exchange, share reconstruction and amalgamation with, purchasing all or substantially all of the assets of, or engaging in any other similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities. We intend to effectuate our initial Business Combination using cash from the proceeds from the sale of the units (the Units) in our initial public offering (the Offering), the sale of the units (the Private Placement Units) to our Founder and Underwriters, the sale of common stock to our Founder, our common equity or any preferred equity that we may create in accordance with the terms of our charter documents, debt, or a combination of cash, common or preferred equity and debt. The Units sold in the Offering each consisted of one share of common stock, and one-third (1/3) of one redeemable warrant to purchase our common stock (no fractional shares will be issued upon exercise of the warrants). The Private Placement Units were substantially similar to the Units sold in the Offering, but for certain differences in the warrants included in each of them. For clarity, the warrants included in the Units are referred to herein as the public warrants, and the warrants included in the Private Placement Units are referred to herein as the private warrants. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or the creation of one or more classes of preferred stock during our initial Business Combination: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in the Offering who would not have pre-emption rights in respect of any such issue; may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if the rights, preferences, designations and limitations attaching to the preferred shares are senior to those afforded our shares of common stock; could cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the share ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our shares of common stock. 20 Similarly, if we issue debt securities or otherwise incur significant indebtedness, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after our initial Business Combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if any document governing such debt contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our shares of common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. We expect to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to raise capital or to complete our initial Business Combination will be successful. Results of Operations and Known Trends or Future Events We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. For the period from December 4, 2020 (date of inception) through September 30, 2021, our only activities have been organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Offering and to identify a target business for the Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial Business Combination. We expect to generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and marketable securities held in the Trust Account at Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. in New York, New York with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee, which was funded after the Offering to hold an amount of cash and marketable securities equal to that raised in the Offering. There has been no significant change in our financial or trading position and no material adverse change has occurred since the date of our audited balance sheet of February 12, 2021 as filed with the SEC on February 18, 2021. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended September 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $1,924,883, which consisted of operating expenses of $1,964,218 and a provision for income taxes of $2,699, that were partially offset by other income from the change in fair value of warrant liability of $32,989 and interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $9,045. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $4,280,092, which consisted of operating expenses of $4,097,263, a provision for income taxes of $6,016 and other expense from the change in fair value of warrant liability of $196,973, that were partially offset by interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $20,160. Liquidity and Capital Resources During the period from December 4, 2020 (date of inception) to December 31, 2020, the Founder purchased 7,460,000 Founder Shares for an aggregate purchase price of $25,000, or $0.0033512 per share. On February 8, 2021, we effected a 1.2:1 stock split of our common stock, resulting in our Founder holding 8,952,000 Founder Shares. On February 11, 2021, the Company consummated its initial public offering (IPO) of 35,880,000 Public Units, including the issuance of 4,680,000 Public Units as a result of the Underwriters exercise in full of their over-allotment option. The Public Units were sold at a price of $10.00 per Public Unit, generating gross proceeds to the Company of $358,800,000. 21 As of September 30, 2021, we held cash and marketable securities in the amount of $358,8 17 , 210 (including $ 17 , 210 of interest earned) in the trust account. The marketable securities consisted of money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940 which invest only in direct U.S. government obligations. Interest income earned from the funds held in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes . For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $2,268,852, consisting of a net loss of $4,280,092, interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $20,160, plus an increase in prepaid expenses of $347,674, other long-term assets of $114,487 and receivable from related parties of $1,242, that were partially offset by the increase in liabilities of $2,297,830, due to increase in accounts payable, including payable to related parties, and accrued liabilities of $2,291,814, other current liabilities of $6,016, and an increase in the fair value of the warrant liability of $196,973. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (which interest shall be net of taxes payable by us), to acquire a target business or businesses to complete our initial Business Combination and to pay our expenses relating thereto. We may withdraw interest to pay taxes. We estimate our annual franchise tax obligations to be approximately $200,000. Our annual income tax obligations will depend on the amount of interest and other income earned on the amounts held in the Trust Account. To the extent that our capital stock is used in whole or in part as consideration to affect our initial Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account as well as any other net proceeds not expended will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses. Such working capital funds could be used in a variety of ways including continuing or expanding the target business operations, for strategic acquisitions and for marketing, research and development of existing or new products. Such funds could also be used to repay any operating expenses or finders fees which we had incurred prior to the completion of our initial Business Combination if the funds available to us outside of the Trust Account were insufficient to cover such expenses. As of September 30, 2021, we had cash of $982,249 held outside the Trust Account. We believe that the proceeds not held in the Trust Account will be sufficient to allow us to operate for the next 12 months, assuming that a Business Combination is not consummated during that time. Over this time period, we intend to use these funds primarily for identifying and evaluating prospective acquisition candidates, performing business due diligence on prospective target businesses, traveling to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses, reviewing corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, selecting the target business to acquire and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Business Combination. If our estimates of the costs of undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating our initial Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to consummate our initial Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon consummation of our initial Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. In order to finance operating and/or transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Founder, executive officers, directors, or their affiliates may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds. In the event that our initial Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into units of the post-Business Combination entity at a price of $10.00 per unit at the option of the lender. The units would be identical to the Private Placement Units. Following our initial Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2021, we have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations As of September 30, 2021, we do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay our Founder a monthly fee of $25,000 for office space, administrative services and secretarial support. We began incurring these fees on February 9, 2021 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination or the liquidation of the Company. 22 On February 1, 2021, the Company entered into a Strategic Services Agreement with Mr. Weightman, its Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer, who holds 6 ,000 insider shares. Mr. Weightman is initially receiving $10,000 per month for his services and such amount could increase to up to $15,000 per month dependent upon the scope of services provided, as may be mutually agreed by the parties. The Company will pay Mr. Weightman for services rendered since February 1, 2021 and on a monthly basis thereafter for all services rendered after the consummation of the Offering. Forward Share Purchase Agreement In October 2021, the Company entered into Forward Share Purchase Agreements with certain of its stockholders pursuant to which these investors may each individually elect to sell and transfer to the Company on the three-month anniversary of the date of the Closing of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction, and the Company will purchase up to an aggregate of 10,000,000 shares of GigCapital4 Common Stock, at a price of $10.15 per share. These investors agreed that they will not (i) request redemption of these shares in conjunction with the Companys stockholders approval of the Business Combination, or (ii) tender these shares to the Company in response to any redemption or tender offer that the Company may commence for its shares of Common Stock. These investors also agreed that they will not engage in any short sales transactions involving any securities of the Company. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Forward Share Purchase Agreements, commencing on the day after the date by which shares of Common Stock of the Company must be tendered for redemption in conjunction with the Companys stockholders approval of the Business Combination (the Redemption Date), each such investor may sell its shares in the open market as long as the sales price exceeds $10.00 per share prior to payment of any commissions. If an investor sells any such shares in the open market after the Redemption Date and prior to the one-month anniversary of the date of the closing of the Transactions at a sales price per share that is greater than $10.05, then the Company shall pay to each selling investor an amount equal to $0.05 per share sold by such investor. Simultaneously with the Closing of the Transactions, the Company will deposit into an escrow account an amount equal to the lesser of (i) $101,500,000 and (ii) $10.15 multiplied by the aggregate number of shares held by such investors as of the closing of the Transactions. The Companys purchase of the shares underlying the Forward Share Purchase Agreements will be made with funds from the escrow account. The Companys obligation to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Forward Share Purchase Agreements is subject to the consummation of the Transactions. The Forward Share Purchase Agreements may be terminated: (i) by mutual written consent of the Company and the investors; (ii) automatically if the Companys stockholders fail to approve the Transactions; and (iii) prior to the closing of the Transactions by mutual agreement of the investors if there occurs a Company Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the Merger Agreement and the Forward Share Purchase Agreements). Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Emerging Growth Company Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when an accounting standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, will adopt the new or revised accounting standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. Net Loss Per Common Share Our condensed statements of operations and comprehensive loss includes a presentation of income per share for common stock subject to possible redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of income (loss) per share. Net income per share, basic and diluted, for common stock subject to possible redemption is calculated by dividing the proportionate share of income or loss on marketable securities held by the Trust Account by the weighted-average number of common stock subject to possible redemption outstanding since original issuance. 23 Net loss per share, basic and diluted, for non-redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing the net loss, adjusted for income or loss on marketable securities attributable to common stock subject to possible redemption, by the weighted-average number of non-redeemable common stock outstanding for the period, basic and diluted . When calculating our diluted net loss per share, we have not considered the effect of (i) the incremental number of shares of common stock to settle warrants sold in the Offering and Private Placement, as calculated using the treasury stock method and (ii) the shares issued to the Insiders representing 18,000 shares of common stock underlying restricted stock awards for the periods they were outstanding. Since we were in net loss position during the periods after deducting net income attributable to common stock subject to redemption, diluted net loss per common share is the same as basic net loss per common share for the periods presented as the inclusion of all potential common shares outstanding would have been anti-dilutive. In accordance with the two-class method, our net loss is adjusted for net income that is attributable to common stock subject to redemption, as these shares only participate in the income of the Trust Account and not our losses. Accordingly, net loss per common share, basic and diluted, is calculated as follows: For the Three Months Ended For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2021 September 30, 2021 Common stock subject to possible redemption Numerator: Earnings allocable to common stock subject to redemption Interest earned on marketable securities held in Trust Account, net of taxes $ 6,346 $ 14,144 Net income attributable to common stock subject to possible redemption $ 6,346 $ 14,144 Denominator: Weighted-average common shares subject to redemption Basic and diluted weighted-average shares outstanding, common stock subject to possible redemption 35,880,000 30,491,429 Basic and diluted net income per share, common stock subject to possible redemption $ 0.00 $ 0.00 Non-Redeemable common stock Numerator: Net loss minus net earnings - Basic and diluted Net loss $ (1,924,883 ) $ (4,280,092 ) Less: net income attributable to common stock subject to redemption (6,346 ) (14,144 ) Net loss attributable to non-redeemable common stock $ (1,931,229 ) $ (4,294,236 ) Denominator: Weighted-average non-redeemable common shares Weighted-average non-redeemable common shares outstanding, basic and diluted 10,051,600 9,886,459 Net loss per share, non-redeemable common stock, basic and diluted $ (0.19 ) $ (0.43 ) Common Stock subject to possible redemption Common stock subject to mandatory redemption (if any) is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, as of September 30, 2021, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders deficit section of our condensed balance sheets. Warrant Liability The Company accounts for warrants for shares of the Companys common stock that are not indexed to its own stock as liabilities at fair value on the condensed balance sheets. The warrants are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date and any change in fair value is recognized as a component of other income (expense) on the condensed statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The Company will continue to adjust the liability for changes in fair value until the earlier of the exercise or expiration of the common stock warrants. At that time, the portion of the warrant liability related to the common stock warrants will be reclassified to additional paid-in capital. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2020-06, Debt - Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging - Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 24 815-40) (ASU 2020-06) to simplify certain financial instruments. ASU 2020-06 eliminates the current models that require separation of beneficial conversion and cash conversion features from convertible instruments and simplifies the derivative scope exception guidance pertaining to equity classification of contracts in an entitys own equity. The new standard also introduces additional disclosures for convertible debt and freestanding instruments that are indexed to and settled in an entitys own equity. ASU 2020-06 amends the diluted earnings per share guidance, including the requirement to use the if-converted method for all convertible instruments. ASU 2020-06 is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021 and should be applied on a full or modified retrospective basis. Early adoption is permitted, but no earlier than fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted ASU 2020-06 effective February 23, 2021. The adoption of ASU 2020-06 did not have a material impact on the Companys condensed financial statements. We do not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements.