Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other sections of this Report contain forward-looking statements. Where, in any forward-looking statement, an expectation or belief as to future results or events is expressed, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of Bit Digitals management and expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. Whether any such forward-looking statements are in fact achieved will depend on future events, some of which are beyond Bit Digitals control. Except as may be required by law, Bit Digital undertakes no obligation to modify or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect new information, events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Report. Comparisons of results for current and any prior periods are not intended to express any future trends, or indications of future performance, unless expressed as such, and should only be viewed as historical data. Factors which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future prospects on a consolidated basis include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, legislative/regulatory changes, availability of capital, interest rates, competition, and generally accepted accounting principles. These risks and uncertainties should also be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Further information concerning our business, including additional factors that could materially affect our financial results, is included herein and in our other filings with the SEC. ii PART I Item 1 Business Overview Bit Digital, Inc. or the Company, is a global platform for high performance computing (HPC) infrastructure and digital asset production, with headquarters in New York City. The Companys HPC business operates under the WhiteFiber Inc. (WhiteFiber) brand. Our operations are located in the US, Canada, and Iceland. HPC Business We are a leading provider of high-performance computing (HPC) data centers and cloud-based HPC graphics processing units (GPU) services, which we term cloud services, for customers such as artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) developers. Our HPC Tier-3 data centers provide hosting and colocation services and are developed and operated by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Enovum. Our cloud services are provided by our WhiteFiber AI, Inc subsidiary. Collectively, we refer to these offerings as our HPC Business. On October 11, 2024, we significantly expanded our HPC data center operations and capabilities by acquiring Enovum Data Centers (Enovum), a Tier-3 HPC data center platform based in Montreal, Canada. Through Enovum, we lease and operate a 4MW AI data center located in Montreal, Canada (MTL 1). MTL 1 is a fully operational Tier-3 data center that is designed for HPC workloads. MTL 1s full capacity is occupied by customers under lease agreements with an average duration of approximately 30 months. On December 27, 2024, we announced that we had acquired the real estate and building for a build-to-suit 5MW Tier-3 data center expansion project in Montreal (MTL 2). The MTL 2 data center is expected to be completed and operational by June 2025. Our HPC data center team is adept at bringing new sites online on an accelerated timeline. We are aggressively pursuing our development pipeline and expect to add 8MW of capacity, inclusive of the MTL 2 site, for total capacity of 12MW, by the end of the second quarter of 2025. By the end of 2025, we are targeting aggregate HPC data center capacity of 32MW. And we intend to achieve 80MW+ of total HPC data center capacity by the end of 2026. We adhere to a disciplined process of only purchasing and developing data centers with customer lease commitments in-hand, and we are currently in negotiation with a prospective customer to adapt a site to the customers specific requirements. In addition to providing highly desirable HPC data center hosting capacity to our customers, our business model integrates HPC data center infrastructure and cloud service to provide scalable, high-performance computing solutions for enterprises, research institutions, and AI-driven businesses. Our integrated approach aligns specialized data center operations with GPU-focused cloud services, addressing the unique requirements of AI and HPC workloads. These workloads demand greater power density, advanced cooling solutions, and robust bandwidth to handle large-scale data transfers. By operating our data centers, we believe we can better meet these needs and reduce the complexity associated with procuring power and connectivity from external vendors. We can also design our facilities to accommodate the higher heat loads generated by modern GPUs, potentially shortening deployment timelines for customers who require rapid expansion of their compute infrastructure. From a financial standpoint, our vertically integrated solution allows us to capture additional margin for both of our HPC data center and cloud services businesses, avoiding expenses that would otherwise be due to third-party providers. Our cloud services business provides cutting-edge, bespoke services involving a sophisticated array of computers and chips, including NVIDIA GPUs, servers, network equipment, and data storage solutions. We believe we provide our cloud services customers with the highest levels of performance and reliability while offering flexibility to scale with customer needs. Our cloud services solutions include a proprietary software layer that enables our customers to rapidly and reliably deploy AI applications with superior performance. We are offering our cloud services initially at a data center maintained by a third-party colocation provider in Iceland (the Iceland Data Center) but have plans to seamlessly integrate our cloud services at data centers across key regions in Europe and North America. In the fourth quarter of 2023, we secured our first cloud customer through a three-year service agreement to provide services using our advanced AI equipment. We believe that both of our businesses are posted to benefit from increased market demand. This is illustrated by our demonstrated ability to pre-sign end users prior to committing capital for expansions, both for new data center sites and for GPU server procurement. For the 12 months ended December 31, 2024, our cloud service business recognized revenue of $45.7 million, 1 We believe our HPC business is positioned for significant growth, driven by the increasing demand for advanced computing and AI services. This planned expansion will involve developing additional HPC data centers at an accelerating pace and procuring GPUs and other AI equipment. To support this growth, we are in the process of building an expanded team of leaders and dedicated employees. In addition to the Senior Management Team of Enovum, we have already hired a Head of Revenue Officer and Go-to-Market (GTM), Senior Account Executive, two engineers, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) and Head of Marketing, with plans to further expand our workforce to include experts in technology, operations, and customer support. This dedicated team will be crucial in executing the Companys strategic plans and maintaining high service levels as the business scales. See Management Senior Management. HPC Data Centers We design, develop, and operate HPC data centers, through which we offer our hosting and colocation services. Our data centers meet the requirements of the Tier-3 standard, including power redundancy, concurrent maintainability, multiple power feeds, uninterruptible power supply, highly reliable cooling systems, and strict monitoring and management systems. We acquired Enovum on October 11, 2024. The transaction included the lease to MTL 1, a fully operational and fully leased to customers 4MW Tier-3 datacenter headquartered in Montreal, Canada. MTL 1 is currently hosting over 5,000 GPUs, including NVIDIA H200s and H100s, on behalf of 14 customers across a variety of end markets. On December 27, 2024, we acquired the real estate and building for a build-to-suit 5MW Tier-3 data center expansion project near Montreal, Canada. MTL 2, a 160,000 square feet site that was previously used as an encapsulation manufacturing facility, is located in Pointe-Claire, QC. We initially funded the purchase with cash on hand and are in the process of securing mortgage financing for both the site acquisition and subsequent infrastructure capex. We expect to invest approximately $19.3 million to develop the site to Tier-3 standards with an initial gross load of 5MW. The site is expected to be completed and operational by June 2025. We plan to retrofit the site with advanced cooling technology, including direct-to-chip liquid cooling, which enhances energy efficiency and supports AI and other high-performance workloads with 150kW rack density. We are collaborating with third parties to implement a heat reject loop to further enhance the sustainability profile of the data center. The facility will be powered by 100% renewable hydroelectricity provided by Hydro-Quebec. Subject to the approval of Hydro-Quebec, additional capacity may be available at this site. This dynamic illustrates our strategy of underwriting site acquisition in Quebec based on in-place power but benefitting from significant incremental HPC data center capacity expansion with increased power. We anticipate dedicating a portion of MTL 2s capacity to house GPUs for our cloud services business. Enovum enjoys significant embedded demand from existing customers, and is in receipt of requests in excess of our short term MW availability.. We use a well-defined set of criteria to select our data center sites. We actively target sub-20MW sites with proximity to metro areas and partial infrastructure in place, where we are retrofitting rather than developing greenfield projects. A retrofit entails sourcing and acquiring an existing industrial building with underutilized, in-place power connectivity. Our average build time for retrofits is six months, which we believe is approximately one-third to one-half of the industry average development timeline for greenfield projects. We are also developing a proprietary software capability that will link clusters across multiple sites, leveraging existing dark fiber networks connecting smaller data centers within a radius of approximately 700 kilometers. By productizing cross-data center operation, we intend to create a single supercluster, enabling us to sidestep potential fragmentation problems and dynamically borrow compute or storage resources from any site. We also prioritize sites offering opportunities to increase site power over time, enabling our HPC data centers to grow with customer demand. In addition, we selectively target certain larger opportunities with 50MW of power or more, subject to customer demand, to drive AI-driven compute super-clusters. Finally, we target sites powered by sustainable, green energy sources. We believe that our HPC data center development and operating model provides highly attractive economics for our investors. We estimate that our capex requirement to develop a cutting edge, Tier-3 data center is between $7 - $9 million per MW. Consistent with common industry practice, approximately 70-75% of this capex budget will be financed with facility-level debt, with the remaining capex requirement equity financed. Based on ongoing discussions with prospective customers, we anticipate that the average contract term for our AI and ML-focused enterprise and GPU compute customers will be 4-12 years, yielding annual revenue per gross MW of approximately $1.7 to $2.5 million assuming a power usage effectiveness (PUE) of 1.20 to 1.40. The anticipated economics of the HPC data centers are dependent on location and the inclusion of energy expense pass-through agreements. We anticipate that our HPC data center profit margin will be approximately 75-85%. The customer contracts are typically subject to annual price escalators that are approximately in line with inflation. 2 Cloud Services We provide specialized cloud services to support generative AI workstreams, especially training and inference, emphasizing cost-effective utility and tailor-made solutions for each client. We are an authorized Network Control Processor (NCP) with NVIDIA, an authorized partner with SuperMicro Computer Inc., an authorized Communications Service Provider (CSP) with Dell, and an official partnership with Hewlett Packard Enterprise. We are proud to be among the first service providers to offer H200, B200, and GB200 servers. We provide a high-standard service level with an Uptime Percentage* 99.5%. The economics of our cloud services business drive attractive returns. The all-in capex required to purchase a GPU is approximately $30,000 for an NVIDIA H200 to $50,000 for an NVIDIA Blackwell chip, inclusive of networking, setup, shipping, and other expenses. We anticipate capex will be financed by a combination of debt and equity. We expect contract duration with our cloud services customers, comprised of established enterprises and well-funded AI startups, to be approximately 36 months, with an initial cost per card hour of $2.15 to $3.40 translating to estimated annual revenue of between $18,000 and $30,000, assuming a 100% utilization rate. We anticipate a profit margin of approximately 85% driven by high utilization rates, stable energy costs, and economies of scale in procurement and infrastructure management. We are actively engaged in research and development efforts to enhance our cloud services capabilities for our customers. For example, we are developing integrated software to automate layering of stacks and self-service portals on top of the cross-data center fabric, allowing our customers to access GPU or CPU nodes on demandno matter where they physically reside. This provides significant flexibility as scaling is required to accelerate development of AI applications. In addition, we are working on advanced interconnect technologies like InfiniBand (IB) or RDMA over Converged Ethernet (RoCE). When combined with cross-data center links, these ensure that training jobs can be distributed without bottlenecks or high latency. By emphasizing scale, performance, and reliability, we believe that we will be positioned to maximize customer retention while pricing our services at a premium to those offered by our competitors. We leverage a global network of data center resources by partnering with eight third-party data center providers to achieve high autonomy in locations across Europe, Canada, and the U.S. Our initial HPC data center partnership through which we lease capacity is at BlndUos Campus, Iceland, offering a world-class operations team with certified technicians and reliable engineers. The facility has 50kW rack density and 6MW total capacity. Its energy source is 100% renewable energy, mainly from Blanda Hydro PowerStation, the winner of IHA Blue Planet Awards in 2017. On October 23, 2023, Bit Digital announced that we had commenced AI operations by signing a binding term sheet with a customer (the Initial Customer) to support their GPU workloads. Under the agreement, as amended, we will supply this customer with a total of 4,096 GPUs for the respective three-year periods, amounting to total revenue of approximately $275 million, or $92 million on an annualized basis. On December 12, 2023, the Company finalized a Master Services and Lease Agreement (MSA), as amended, with our Initial Customer for the provision of cloud services from a total of 2,048 GPUs over a three-year period. To finance this operation, the Company entered into a sale-leaseback agreement with a third party, selling 96 AI servers (equivalent to 768 GPUs) and leasing them back for three years. The total contract value with the Initial Customer for the aggregated 2,048 GPUs was estimated to be worth more than $50 million of annualized revenue. On January 22, 2024, approximately 192 servers (equivalent to 1,536 GPUs) were deployed at a specialized data center and began generating revenue, and subsequently on February 2, 2024, approximately an additional 64 servers (equivalent to 512 GPUs) also started to generate revenue. In the second quarter of 2024, the Company finalized an agreement to supply its first customer with an additional 2,048 GPUs over a three-year period. To finance this operation, the Company entered into a sale-leaseback agreement with a third party, agreeing to sell 128 AI servers (equivalent to 1,024 GPUs) and leasing them back for three years. In late July, at the customers request, the Company and the customer agreed to temporarily delay the purchase order so the customer could evaluate an upgrade to newer generation Nvidia GPUs. Consequently, the Company and manufacturer postponed the purchase order. In early August, the customer made a non-refundable prepayment of $30.0 million for the services to be rendered under this agreement. 3 In January 2025, the Company entered into a new agreement to supply its Initial Customer with an additional 464 GPUs for a period of eighteen months. This new agreement replaces the prior agreement whereby the Company was to provide the customer with an incremental 2,048 H100 GPUs. The contract represents approximately $15 million of annualized revenue and features a two-month prepayment from the customer. On October 9, 2024, the Company executed a Master Services and Lease Agreement (MSA) with Boosteroid Inc. (Boosteroid), a global cloud gaming provider, following a binding term sheet with Boosteroid on August 19, 2024. We finalized an initial order of 300 GPUs, projected to generate approximately $4.6 million in revenue over the five-year term. The GPUs will be deployed by Boosteroid at respective data centers across the U.S. and we began earning revenue in November 2024. We finalized an additional order of 189 GPUs, projected to generate approximately $3.2 million in revenue over the five-year term. The GPUs will be deployed by Boosteroid at respective data centers across the Europe and we began earning revenue in December 2024. The MSA provides Boosteroid with the option to expand in increments of 100 servers, up to 50,000 servers, representing a potential $700 million revenue opportunity over the five-year term, subject to deployment plans and market conditions. On November 6, 2024, the Company entered into a Master Services Agreement (MSA) with a minimum purchase commitment of 16 GPUs, along with an associated purchase order, from a new customer. The purchase order provides for services utilizing a total of 16 H200 GPUs over a minimum of six (6) month period, representing total revenue of approximately $320,000 for the term. The deployment commenced and revenue generation began on November 7, 2024, using the Companys existing inventory of H200 GPUs. On November 14, 2024, the Company entered into a Terms of Supply and Service Level Agreement (together, the Agreement) and an Order Form with a new customer. The order form provides for services utilizing a total of 64 H200 GPUs on a month-to-month basis, which either party may terminate upon at least 14 days written notice prior to any renewal date. It represents annual revenue of approximately $1.2 million. The deployment commenced and revenue generation began on November 15, 2024, using the Companys existing inventory of H200 GPUs. On December 30, 2024, we entered into a Master Services Agreement (MSA) with a minimum purchase commitment of 32 GPUs, along with an associated purchase order, from a new customer, an AI Compute Fund managed by DNA Holdings Venture Inc. The purchase order provides for services utilizing a total of 576 H200 GPUs over a twenty-five month period, terminable by either party upon at least 90 days written notice prior to any renewal date. It represents an aggregate revenue opportunity of approximately $20.2 million. Concurrently, we placed a purchase order for 130 H200 servers for approximately $30 million. The deployment commenced in February 2025. On January 6, 2025, the Company entered into a Master Services Agreement (MSA) with a minimum purchase commitment of 32 GPUs, along with an associated purchase order, from a new customer. The purchase order provides for services utilizing a total of 32 H200 GPUs over a minimum of six (6) month period, representing total revenue of approximately $300,000 for the term. The deployment commenced and revenue generation began on January 8, 2025, using the Companys existing inventory of H200 GPUs. In January 2025, the Company entered into a Master Services Agreement (MSA) , along with two associated purchase orders, from a new customer. The purchase orders provide for services utilizing a total of 24 H200 GPUs over a minimum twelve (12) month period, representing total revenue of approximately $450,000 for the term. The deployment commenced and revenue generation began on January 27, 2025, using the Companys existing inventory of H200 GPUs. On January 30, 2025, the Company entered into a Master Services Agreement (MSA) with a minimum purchase commitment of 40 GPUs, along with an associated purchase order, from a new customer. The purchase orders provide for services utilizing a total of 40 H200 GPUs over a minimum of twelve (12) month period, representing total revenue of approximately $750,000 for the term. The deployment commenced and revenue generation began on January 24, 2025, using the Companys existing inventory of H200 GPUs. 4 Industry Overview We compete in the large and rapidly growing data center and cloud services markets. The data center market refers to the industry dedicated to designing, building, and managing data centers, essential for storing, processing, and managing vast amounts of digital information, including for AI and ML applications. These centers house servers, networking equipment, and storage systems, ensuring seamless and secure data operation. The cloud services market represents the transmission of computer services, including storage, services, software, analytics, databases, networking, and intelligence, via the internet (referred to as the cloud). More specifically, we are a NeoCloud service provider, with differentiated services supporting AI workloads and specializing in deploying optimized infrastructures that include not just GPU fleets but also network accelerators, high-speed storage, software solutions, and more. This infrastructure is essential for managing the massive data and computing demands of AI training and inference tasks. It is standard for GPU hardware clusters, used in the rendering of cloud services, to be remotely housed in data centers, making these two segments highly related and synergistic. Specially designed data centers host the hardware needed to provide HPC cloud services, and these are commonly referred to as HPC data centers. According to experts at Schneider Electric, the industry is shifting away from traditional data centers that typically hosted 10kw racks to newer 100kw racks that support HPC needs. We only design and develop HPC data centers, giving us a competitive advantage over operators of traditional data center capacity. According to McKinsey & Company experts, power demand for data centers in the U.S. driven by the need for digital and AI capabilities is expected to reach 606 terawatt-hours by 2030, up from 147 terawatt-hours in 2023 (312% growth). McKinsey estimates that data centers will amount to 11.7% of total U.S. power demand over that period. Based on our knowledge of the industry, we believe we are leaders in the markets that are critical for these capabilities, and, as a result, we believe we are well positioned to benefit from the growth of this sector. Data Centers According to Precedence Research, the global data center market is estimated to be valued at $125 billion in 2024 and is anticipated to reach $365 billion by 2034, expanding at a CAGR of 11.4%. As of 2023, the data center services segment, which provides a range of offerings including consulting, maintenance, and management to optimize the performance and reliability of data center infrastructure, represented about 34.2% of the industry. The solutions segment, which refers to the technological offerings that fulfill key functions within data center infrastructure, comprised about 65.8% of the industry. The solutions segment represents both hardware and software elements, encompassing servers, storage systems, networking equipment, and management software. The data center market is propelled by growing demands for cloud computing services, big data analytics, and digital transformation. Key contributors to this dynamic landscape are technology firms, real estate developers, and service providers. Together, they play a vital role in the ongoing evolution of data center infrastructure, adapting to meet the expanding requirements of the digital era and ensuring the seamless operation of critical digital services across various industries. The increasing global demand for cloud computing, where we compete as a cloud services provider, is a major driver of data centers, underlining the inherent synergies between our businesses. Cloud Services According to Roots Analysis, the public cloud market size is projected to grow from $567 billion in 2024 to $3.4 trillion by 2035, representing a CAGR of 17.6% during the forecast period. The major factors driving the cloud services market growth are increasing digital transformation across businesses, growing internet and mobile device adoption across the globe, and, most notably, increased usage of large data sets. Moreover, cloud services are favored by customers due to low capital investment, resource scalability, and a high degree of accessibility. The rise of the system of connected devices, edge computing, 5G, and real-time analytics driven by AI and ML is anticipated to increase the market value of cloud technology across different businesses. 5 Sustainability Sustainability and energy efficiency are increasingly important considerations for the data center and cloud services markets due to high energy consumption and carbon emissions. The sustainability movement for data centers is driven by organizations environmental, social and governance commitments and the rise of laws and regulations supporting sustainability. For example, the Paris Accord, which was entered into force on November 4, 2016, is currently in effect across 174 countries apart from the United States and aims to curb long-term global warming. Our facilities in Quebec and Iceland benefit from clean, hydroelectric power generation, and we will seek to offer comprehensive HPC data center and cloud services solutions while prioritizing sustainability and energy efficiency. Strategic Relationships Financing In January 2025, we entered into a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with an institutional investor to form a programmatic joint venture (the Joint Venture) for the development, construction and operation of data centers within the U.S., Canada, and Latin America. In this regard, the MOU identifies certain properties, collectively, as the Seed Project for the Joint Venture, requiring approximately $53 million of equity commitments, of which we will commit 30% and our partner the remaining 70%. The MOU provides that over time, the parties wish to invest in data center opportunities (other than the Seed Project) with aggregate capitalization of $2 billion and implied equity commitments of approximately $500 million (assuming customary use of leverage). We will be responsible for development management, construction management, and asset management services with regard to the projects of the Joint Venture, and we will be entitled to earn certain fees for the provision of these services. We will also be entitled to receive a promoted interest, in addition to returns on our pro rata equity investments into the Joint Venture. The MOU binds the parties to use their commercially reasonable efforts to negotiate and execute mutually agreed definitive transaction documents. We believe that the signing of this MOU is illustrative of strong market demand from institutional private equity investors for exposure to the types of projects in our data center pipeline and our capability to develop them. We believe that we are well positioned to capitalize on this demand by forming one or more equity joint ventures with the aforementioned partner. Doing so would provide us access to a differentiated and non-dilutive source of private equity capital to fund our projects, and deliver a durable stream of cash flows in the form of management fee income for our services. Technology We have established formal relationships with leading technology providers, including Nvidia, SuperMicro, Dell, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise. These partnerships enable us to access and deploy the most advanced computing hardware, ensuring that our clients benefit from cutting-edge technology and optimized performance. Our collaboration with these industry leaders allows us to stay at the forefront of high-performance computing and artificial intelligence infrastructure. In addition, we have a formal agreement with Lepton to offer on-demand computing services powered by Nvidia B200 GPUs. This partnership enhances our ability to provide scalable, high-performance AI and HPC solutions to enterprise customers, enabling them to access state-of-the-art compute resources without the need for upfront infrastructure investment. Our data center business leverages a diverse mix of vendors across multiple geographies to source equipment cost-effectively while mitigating supply chain disruptions. By maintaining a broad supplier network, we reduce reliance on any single vendor and enhance our ability to procure best-in-class solutions at competitive prices. This approach strengthens our operational resilience and supports our ability to scale efficiently. Competition We face significant competition from various data center and cloud services providers. We compete with several prominent data center providers, including Digital Realty, Equinix, Inc., NTT, Bitdeer, Riot Platforms and various private operators in the U.S. Our primary competitors in the cloud service business are Coreweave, Crusoe Energy, Nebius, and Lambda Labs. 6 Many of our competitors offer locations worldwide and have well-established international operations. Our competitors may also have significant advantages over us, including greater name recognition, longer operating histories, pre-existing relationships with current or potential customers, the capacity to provide the same or additional products and services, more significant marketing budgets and other financial and operational resources, more robust internal controls and systems, and better established, more extensive scale and lower cost suppliers sand supplier relationships. Materials and Suppliers Maintaining key supplier relationships is crucial to our business operations, as we rely on these relationships, such as with Dell, NVIDIA, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, and Super Micro, to secure essential computing hardware, infrastructure components, and other materials. The complexity of developing cloud service hardware at scale limits the number of suppliers capable of meeting our requirements. Consequently, we have established purchase orders with leading hardware manufacturers, which include extended delivery schedules spanning several months before the hardware is delivered to our facilities. These fluctuations in delivery timelines necessitate careful planning and advanced purchasing strategies to ensure we can acquire hardware well before their anticipated deployment. We proactively procure these materials from our suppliers in sufficient quantities to facilitate hardware deployment at scale and on accelerated timelines. To mitigate potential supply chain disruptions and ensure the smooth operation of our facilities, we have established long-term contracts and agreements with key suppliers. These arrangements give us greater certainty regarding the availability and pricing of essential components and materials. Furthermore, we continuously monitor market trends and maintain open lines of communication with our suppliers to anticipate and address potential supply chain challenges. By proactively managing our supplier relationships, securing necessary materials in advance, and closely monitoring market conditions, we aim to minimize the impact of supply chain fluctuations on our operations. This approach enables us to maintain a steady pace of hardware deployments and facility development, ultimately supporting our goal of expanding our HPC data center and cloud service capabilities and maximizing shareholder value. However, we rely on a limited number of vendors for certain products and services for our data center facilities, and some of our contracts provide a single source of materials. If any of our key suppliers cannot perform under their contracts or satisfy our orders, it could significantly delay our data center development and operations. While we may be able to engage replacement suppliers, this would likely lead to operational delays and increased costs. Customers HPC Data Centers Our HPC data center customer base consists of two primary segments: VFX Visual effects that are created using computers or models. These customers benefit from our high-density solutions, reaching upwards of 50kW per cabinet, to accommodate their VFX workloads and data generation. GPU cloud our GPU cloud customers offer on demand access to their GPUs for tasks like AI, VFX rendering and scientific computing Currently, we provide HPC data center services at our leased MTL 1 facility, although our customers are based across Canada and Europe. 7 Cloud Services Our cloud services customer base also is comprised of two primary segments: Direct end users these customers primarily leverage our compute power for model training and inference GPU marketplaces these platforms resell our computing power to their own end users. Since we do not have direct visibility into their end-user base, there may be some overlap among end users across different marketplaces. We currently provide cloud services across the U.S., Europe, and Asia. Global Logistics Global supply logistics have caused delays across all distribution channels, impacting the HPC and AI markets. Delivery schedules for specialized equipment, such as high-performance computing systems, AI hardware, and necessary infrastructure components, have been affected due to constraints on globalized supply chains. These constraints extend to procuring construction materials and specialized electricity distribution equipment required to develop HPC and AI facilities. Efforts to mitigate delivery delays are ongoing to avoid materially impacting deployment schedules; however, there are no assurances that such mitigation efforts will continue to be successful. To help address global supply logistics and pricing concerns, we have implemented proactive measures such as procuring and holding required materials. We continuously monitor developments in the global supply chain which is necessary to assess their potential impact on the Companys expansion plans within the HPC and AI markets. Regulatory Landscape The regulatory landscape surrounding HPC data centers and cloud services is evolving rapidly, and we anticipate increased scrutiny and potential regulation in the near- and long-term. These developments may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. There are growing concerns about the ethical implications and potential misuse of AI and machine learning. Governments and regulatory bodies are considering measures to ensure the responsible development and deployment of AI systems, including transparency, accountability, and fairness guidelines. We are closely monitoring these developments and will dedicate our best efforts to adhere to any upcoming regulations or industry best practices. As a company operating at the intersection of data center, cloud and HPC hosting services, we are committed to maintaining a proactive and adaptive approach to regulatory compliance. We closely monitor legislative and regulatory developments and engage in dialogue with relevant stakeholders to ensure our business practices align with the evolving legal and regulatory framework. Despite the uncertainties posed by the changing regulatory landscape, we remain committed to delivering innovative and responsible solutions in the data center, cloud and HPC hosting markets while prioritizing compliance and risk management. However, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to significant liabilities, including fines and penalties, and our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. Investment Canada Act All acquisitions of control (whether direct or indirect) of Canadian businesses by non-Canadians may be subject to review on grounds that the investment could be injurious to national security. Following the filing of the required Investment Canada Act notification in respect of our acquisition of Enovum (the Transaction), we received written notification from the Minister of Innovation, Science and Industry of Canada (the Minister), that the Transaction may be subject to a national security review. Following review information we provided, Bit Digital executed a Commitment Letter to the Minister which provides for the following: (i) Commitment to maintain one Canadian on the board of Enovum Inc.; (ii) Commitment to maintain or improve Enovums security controls for personnel, physical security and the internal network, and (iii) Commitment to send a list of Enovums current clients to Investment Canada on an annual basis. Digital Asset Business Segment The digital asset business segment of the Digital Infrastructure Business (the Digital Asset Business Segment) is comprised primarily of two distinct but highly complementary operations: (i) digital asset mining (the Digital Asset Mining Operations); and (ii) ETH staking (the ETH Staking Operations). Digital Asset Mining Business We commenced our bitcoin (BTC) mining business in February 2020. We initiated limited Ethereum mining operations in January 2022, however discontinued the operations by September 2022 due to Ethereum blockchain switching from proof-of-work (PoW) consensus mechanism to proof-of-stake (PoS) validation. Our mining operations, hosted by third-party providers, use specialized computers, known as miners, to generate digital assets. Our miners use application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) chips. These chips enable the miners to apply high computational power, expressed as hash rate, to provide transaction verification services (generally known as solving a block) which helps support the blockchain. For every block added, the blockchain provides an award equal to a set number of digital assets per block. Miners with a greater hash rate generally have a higher chance of solving a block and receiving an award. 8 We operate our mining assets with the primary intent of accumulating digital assets which we may sell for fiat currency from time to time depending on market conditions and managements determination of our cash flow needs, and/or exchange into ETH or USD Coin (USDC). Our mining strategy has been to mine bitcoins as quickly and as many as possible given the fixed supply of bitcoins. In view of historically long delivery lead times to purchase miners from manufacturers like Bitmain Technologies Limited (Bitmain) and MicroBT Electronics Technology Co., Ltd (MicroBT), and other considerations, we have chosen to acquire miners on the spot market, which can typically result in delivery within a relatively short time. We have signed service agreements with third-party hosting partners in North America and Iceland. These partners operate specialized mining data centers, where they install and operate the miners and provide IT consulting, maintenance, and repair work on site for us. Our mining facilities in New York are maintained by Coinmint LLC (Coinmint) and Digihost Technologies Inc. (Digihost). Our mining facilities in Texas are maintained by Dory Creek, LLC, a subsidiary of Bitdeer Technologies Group (Bitdeer) and A.R.T. Digital Holdings Corp (KaboomRacks). Soluna Computing, Inc and DVSL ComputeCo, LLC (collectively Soluna) maintained our mining facilities in Kentucky and Texas. Our mining facility in Iceland is maintained by GreenBlocks ehf, an Icelandic private limited company (GreenBlocks). We have relocated our miners from our mining facility in Canada maintained by Blockbreakers Inc. (Blockbreakers) to Soluna and Coinmint after our service agreement expired in November 2024. From time to time, the Company may change partnerships with hosting facilities to recalibrate its bitcoin mining operations. These terminations are strategic, targeting reduced operational costs, enhanced energy efficiency for a smaller carbon footprint, increased flexibility in operational control, and minimized geopolitical risks. While a short-term decrease in mining output might occur, we expect these changes to yield long-term operational improvements. We are a sustainability-focused digital asset mining company. On June 24, 2021, we signed the Crypto Climate Accord, a private sector-led initiative that aims to decarbonize the crypto and blockchain sectors. On December 7, 2021, we became a member of the Bitcoin Mining Council (BMC), joining MicroStrategy and other founding members to promote transparency, share best practices, and educate the public on the benefits of bitcoin and bitcoin mining. ETH Staking Business In the fourth quarter of 2022, we formally commenced Ethereum staking operations. We intend to delegate or stake our ETH holdings to an Ethereum validator node to help secure and strengthen the blockchain network. Stakers are compensated for this commitment in the form of a reward of the native network token. Our native staking operations are enhanced by a partnership with Blockdaemon, the leading institutional-grade blockchain infrastructure company for node management and staking. In the fourth quarter of 2022, following a similar mechanism to native Ethereum staking, we also participated in liquid staking via Portara protocol (formerly known as Harbour), the liquid staking protocol developed by Blockdaemon and StakeWise and the first of its kind tailored to institutions. With the introduction of staked ETH withdrawals in April 2023, we have reassessed our Ethereum network staking approaches, weighing the advantages of traditional staking against liquid staking solutions. The withdrawal feature in native staking, coupled with yields that are on par with those of liquid staking, has encouraged us to expand our collaborations with other service providers in this domain. As a result, we terminated all liquid staking activities with StakeWise in the third quarter of 2023, reclaiming all staked Ethereum along with the accumulated rewards. In the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company terminated the native staking activities and reclaimed all staked Ethereum with Blockdaemon. Our native staking operations with MarsProtocol Technologies Pte. Ltd. (Marsprotocol) commenced in the first quarter of 2023 and concluded in July 2023. After ceasing operations with Marsprotocol, we initiated our native staking with MarsLand Global Limited (MarsLand) in August 2023. Subsequently, we have ceased our native staking with MarsLand in the first quarter of 2024 and initiated our native staking with Figment Inc. 9 We started participating in liquid staking via Liquid Collective protocol on the Coinbase platform in the first quarter of 2023. Liquid staking allows participants to achieve greater capital efficiency by utilizing their staked ETH as collateral and trading their staked ETH tokens on the secondary market. In the first quarter of 2024, we have reclaimed all the liquid staked ETH from Liquid Collective protocol. Miner Deployments During the year ended December 31, 2024, we continued to work with our hosting partners to deploy our miners in North America and Iceland. During the first quarter of 2024, the Company deployed an additional 2,350 miners at one of Coinmints hosting facilities. During the second quarter of 2024, the Company deployed an additional 600 miners at Blockbreakers hosting facility. During the third quarter of 2024, the Company deployed an additional 546 miners at one of Solunas hosting facilities. During the fourth quarter of 2024, the Company reallocated a portion of its mining fleet across hosting facilities as part of its ongoing efforts to recalibrate its bitcoin mining operations. This transition, driven by changes in hosting partnerships, including the transfer of some miners from Blockbreakers and Coinmint to Solunas facilities. As of December 31, 2024, the Companys active hash rate totals approximately 1.8 EH/s, with operations in North America and Iceland. Power and Hosting Overview During the year ended December 31, 2024, our hosting partners continued to prepare sites to deliver our contracted hosting capacity, bringing additional power online for our miners. The Companys subsidiary, Bit Digital Canada, Inc., entered into a Mining Services Agreement effective September 1, 2022, for Blockbreakers, Inc. to provide five (5) MW of incremental hosting capacity at its facility in Canada. The facility utilizes an energy source that is primarily hydroelectric. On May 8, 2023, the Company entered into a Master Mining Services Agreement with Blockbreakers, pursuant to which Blockbreakers agreed to provide the Company with four (4) MW of additional mining capacity at its hosting facility in Canada. The agreement is for two (2) years automatically renewable for additional one (1) year terms unless either party gives at least sixty (60) days advance written notice. The performance fee is 15% of the net profit. Additionally, Bit Digital has secured a side letter agreement with Blockbreakers, granting the Company the right of first refusal for any future mining hosting services offered by Blockbreakers in Canada. This new agreement brought the Companys total contracted hosting capacity with Blockbreakers to approximately 9 MW. Our service agreement with Blockbreakers expired in November 2024. A portion of the miners were transferred to other hosting facilities, and the inefficient units were sold. On June 7, 2022, we entered into a Master Mining Services Agreement (the MMSA) with Coinmint LLC, pursuant to which Coinmint will provide the required mining colocation services for a one-year period automatically renewing for three-month periods unless earlier terminated. The Company will pay Coinmint electricity costs, plus operating costs required to operate the Companys mining equipment, as well as a performance fee equal to 27.5% of the net profit, subject to a ten percent (10%) reduction if Coinmint fails to provide uptime of ninety-eight (98%) percent or better for any period. We are not privy to the emissions rate at the Coinmint facility or at any other hosting facility. However, the Coinmint facility operates in an upstate New York region that reportedly utilizes power that is 99% emissions-free, as determined based on the 2023 Load & Capacity Data Report published by the New York Independent System Operator, Inc. (NYISO). 10 On April 5, 2023, the Company entered into a letter agreement and MMSA Amendment with Coinmint pursuant to which Coinmint agreed to provide the Company with up to ten (10) MW of additional mining capacity to energize the Companys mining equipment at Coinmints hosting facility in Plattsburgh, New York. The agreement is for two (2) years automatically renewing for three (3) months unless terminated by either party on at least ninety (90) days prior written notice. The performance fees under this letter agreement range from 30% to 33% of the net profit. This new agreement brings the Companys total contracted hosting capacity with Coinmint to approximately 30 MW at this facility. On April 27, 2023, the Company entered into a letter agreement and MMSA Amendment with Coinmint pursuant to which Coinmint agreed to provide the Company with up to ten (10) MW of additional mining capacity to energize the Companys mining equipment at Coinmints hosting facility in Massena, New York. The agreement is for one (1) year automatically renewing for three (3) months unless terminated by either party on at least ninety (90) days prior written notice. The performance fees under this letter agreement are 33% of the net profit. This new agreement brings the Companys total contracted hosting capacity with Coinmint to approximately 40 MW. On January 26, 2024, the Company entered into a letter agreement and MMSA Amendment with Coinmint pursuant to which Coinmint agreed to provide the Company with up to six (6) MW of additional mining capacity to energize the Companys mining equipment at Coinmints hosting facility in Massena, New York. The agreement is for one (1) year automatically renewing for three (3) months unless terminated by either party on at least ninety (90) days prior written notice. The performance fees under this letter agreement are 28% of the net profit. This new agreement brings the Companys total contracted hosting capacity with Coinmint to approximately 46 MW. On September 5, 2024, the Company received a 90-days notice of non-renewal of colocation mining services agreement from Coinmint, which informed the Company of its intent not to renew 27 MW of the 36 MW total contracted capacity at its Massena, New York site, effective December 7, 2024. Subsequently, on October 29, 2024, the Company received an additional 90-days notice of non-renewal of colocation mining services agreement from Coinmint, which informed the Company of its intent to not renew the remaining 9 MW of the 36 MW total contracted capacity at its Massena, New York site, effective January 28, 2024. On January 3, 2025, the Company received an additional 90-days notice of non-renewal of colocation mining services agreement from Coinmint, which informed the Company of its intent to not renew the 10 MW total contracted capacity at its Plattsburgh, New York site, effective April 5, 2025. After the contracts with Coinmint expire, we plan on selling the inefficient units and replacing the hash rate with newer generation machines. By doing so we can replace the lost hash rate with around 50% less MW. We have already signed contracts for more than enough hosting capacity to replace that hash rate. As of December 31, 2024, Coinmint provided approximately 18.5 MW of capacity for our miners at their facilities. In June 2021, we entered into a strategic co-mining agreement with Digihost Technologies in North America. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Digihost provides certain premises to Bit Digital for the purpose of the operation and storage of a twenty (20) MW bitcoin mining system to be delivered by Bit Digital. Digihost provides services to maintain the premises for a term of two (2) years. Digihost shall also be entitled to 20% of the net profit generated by the miners. In April 2023, we renewed the co-mining agreement with Digihost, previously executed in June 2021. Pursuant to the terms of the new agreement, Digihost provides certain premises to Bit Digital for the purpose of the operation and storage of an up to twenty (20) MW bitcoin mining system to be delivered by Bit Digital. Digihost also provides services to maintain the premises for a term of two (2) years, automatically renewing for a period of one (1) year. Digihost shall also be entitled to 30% of the net profit generated by the miners. As of December 31, 2024, Digihost provided approximately 6.0 MW of capacity for our miners at their facility. 11 On May 9, 2023 (Effective Date), the Company entered into a Term Loan Facility and Security Agreement (the Loan Agreement) with GreenBlocks. Pursuant to the Loan Agreement, GreenBlocks has requested the Company to extend one or more loans (Advances) under a senior secured term loan facility in an aggregate outstanding principal amount not to exceed $5 million. The interest rate of the Loan Agreement is 0% and Advances are to be repaid on the maturity date, which is the thirty-nine-month anniversary of the Effective Date. GreenBlocks will exclusively use the Advances to buy miners that will be operated for the benefit of the Company at a facility in Iceland, with an overall capacity of 8.25 MW. To secure the prompt payment of Advances, the Company has been granted a continuing first priority lien and security interest in all of GreenBlockss rights, title and interest to the financed miners. The miners are the sole property of GreenBlocks, of which they are responsible for the purchase, installation, operation, and maintenance. On May 9, 2023, the Company entered into a Computation Capacity Services Agreement (the Services Agreement) with GreenBlocks. Pursuant to the Agreement, GreenBlocks will provide computational capacity services and other necessary ancillary services, such as operation, management, and maintenance, at the facility in Iceland for a term of two (2) years. GreenBlocks will own and operate the miners financed through the Loan Agreement for the purpose of providing computational capacity of up to 8.25 MW. The Company will pay power costs of five cents ($0.05) per kilowatt hour, a pod fee of $22,000 per pod per month, and a depreciation fee equal to 1/36 of the facility size per month. The performance fees under this agreement are 20% of the net profit. The Company submitted to Greenblocks a deposit in the amount of $1,052,100, which was exclusively for the purpose of paying the landlord of the facility for hosting space. On June 1, 2023, the Company and GreenBlocks entered the Omnibus Amendment to Loan Documents and Other Agreements (Omnibus Amendment). This amendment revised both the Loan Agreement and the Services Agreement previously entered on May 9, 2023. While the core terms remained consistent, notable modifications pertained to the facility size and contracted capacity. Specifically, the facility size was increased from $5 million to $6.7 million. Moreover, GreenBlocks agreed to expand the computation capacity to approximately 10.7 MW. Advances of $6.4 million have been financed by the Company to GreenBlocks. As of December 31, 2024, GreenBlocks provided approximately 5.0 MW of capacity for our miners at their facility. In October 2023, we entered into a strategic co-location agreement with Soluna Computing, Inc. (Soluna) for a term of one (1) year automatically renewing on a month-to-month basis unless terminated by either party. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Soluna provides certain required mining colocation services to the Company for the purpose of the operation and storage of up to 4.4 MW bitcoin mining system to be delivered by Bit Digital. Soluna shall also be entitled to 42.5% of the net profit generated by the miners. This agreement expired at the end of October 2024. In October 2024, we entered into a co-location agreement with Soluna to continue our business relationship. Under this agreement, Soluna provides certain required mining colocation services to the Company at their hosting facility in Murray, Kentucky for the purpose of the operation and storage of bitcoin mining system to be delivered by the Company up to 6.6 MW (3.3 MW for terms of nine (9) months and 3.3 MW for terms of one (1) year), automatically renewing on a month-to-month basis unless terminated by either party. Soluna shall also be entitled to 35% of the net profit generated by the miners. In December 2024, we entered into two additional co-location agreements with Soluna pursuant to which Soluna agreed to provide the Company with up to 11 MW (5.5 MW and 5.5 MW, respectively). Both agreements are for one (1) year automatically renewing on a month-to-month basis unless terminated by either party on at least sixty (60) days prior written notice. Soluna shall also be entitled to 35% and 27.5%, respectively, of the net profit generated by the miners. These new agreements bring the Companys total contracted hosting capacity with Soluna to approximately 17.6 MW. As of December 31, 2024, Soluna provided approximately 11.4 MW of capacity for our miners at their facility. In November 2023, we entered into a hosting services agreement, which was amended on March 7, 2024, with Dory Creek, LLC, a subsidiary of Bitdeer Technologies Group (Bitdeer), for a term of one (1) year automatically renewing on an annual basis unless terminated by either party by giving a 30-day prior notice to the other Party in writing. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Bitdeer provides maintenance and operation services to Bit Digital to support 17.5 MW of capacity. Bitdeer shall also be entitled to 30% of the net profit generated by the miners. Bit Digital shall have the first right, but not obligation, to accept services for any extra capacity under the terms of this Agreement. As of December 31, 2024, Bitdeer provided approximately 15.5 MW of capacity for our miners at their facility. 12 In February 2025, we entered into two hosting services agreements with A.R.T. Digital Holdings Corp (KaboomRacks) for terms of nine (9) months and three (3) years automatically renewing on an annual basis unless terminated by either party. Pursuant to the terms of the agreements, KaboomRacks provides maintenance and operation services to Bit Digital to support 6 MW and 13 MW of capacity. KaboomRacks shall also be entitled to between 19.75% and 40% of the net profit generated by the miners. Deployment is expected to begin in the first quarter of 2025. In May 2022, our hosting partner Blockfusion advised us that the substation at its Niagara Falls, New York facility was damaged by an explosion and fire, and power was cut off to approximately 2,515 of the Companys bitcoin miners and approximately 710 ETH miners that had been operating at the site immediately prior to the incident. The explosion and fire are believed to have been caused by faulty equipment owned by the power utility. Blockfusion and the Company have entered into a common interest agreement to jointly pursue any claims evolving from the explosion and fire. Prior to the incident, our facility with Blockfusion in Niagara Falls, provided approximately 9.4 MW to power our miners. Power was restored to the facility in September 2022. However, we received a notice dated October 4, 2022 (the Notice), from the City of Niagara Falls, which ordered the cease and desist from any cryptocurrency mining or related operations at the facility until such time as Blockfusion complies with Section 1303.2.8 of the City of Niagara Falls Zoning Ordinance (the Ordinance), in addition to all other City ordinances and codes. Blockfusion has advised us that the Ordinance came into effect on October 1, 2022, following the expiration of a related moratorium on September 30, 2022. Blockfusion has further advised that it has submitted applications for new permits based on the Ordinances new standards and that the permits may take several months to process. Pursuant to the Mining Services Agreement between Bit Digital and Blockfusion dated August 25, 2021, Blockfusion represents, warrants and covenants that it possesses, and will maintain, all licenses, registrations, authorizations and approvals required by any governmental agency, regulatory authority or other party necessary for it to operate its business and engage in the business relating to its provision of the Services. On October 5, 2022, Bit Digital further advised Blockfusion that it expects it to comply with the directives of the Notice. Our service agreement with Blockfusion ended in September 2023. On June 3, 2024, the Company filed suit in Delaware Superior Court against Blockfusion alleging claims for breach of contract, conversion, and related claims in connection with, among other things, certain deposits and advances paid to Blockfusion, the return of which is owed to the Company. The Company is seeking in excess of $4.3 million. On October 22, 2024, Blockfusion denied the Companys claims and brought reciprocal breach of contract and related counterclaims. Blockfusion is seeking at least $158,000 in damages. A bench trial has been scheduled for June 29, 2026. Refer to Note 19. Contingencies for further details. Miner Fleet Update and Overview As of December 31, 2023, we had 46,548 miners owned or operating (in Iceland) for bitcoin mining with a total maximum hash rate of 3.9 EH/s. On January 25, 2024, we entered into a purchase agreement with an unaffiliated seller of bitcoin mining computers, from whom we acquired 2,350 S19 Pro miners. As of the date of this report, all miners have been delivered. On April 15, 2024, we entered into a purchase agreement with an unaffiliated seller of bitcoin mining computers, from whom we acquired 1,146 S19K Pro miners. As of the date of this report, all miners have been delivered. On December 10, 2024, we entered into an agreement with an unaffiliated seller of bitcoin mining computers, from whom we acquired 191 S21 miners. As of the date of this report, none of the miners were delivered. On December 15, 2024, we entered into an agreement with an unaffiliated seller of bitcoin mining computers, from whom we acquired 750 S21 miners. As of the date of this report, none of the miners were delivered. On December 23, 2024, we entered into an agreement with an unaffiliated seller of bitcoin mining computers, from whom we acquired 4,300 S21+ miners. As of the date of this report, none of the miners were delivered. For the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company disposed of approximately 25,495 bitcoin miners. As of December 31, 2024, we had 24,239 miners owned or operating (in Iceland) for bitcoin mining with a total maximum hash rate of 2.6 EH/s. 13 Bitcoin Production From the inception of our bitcoin mining business in February 2020 to December 31, 2024, we earned an aggregate of 7,280.1 bitcoins. The following table presents our bitcoin mining activities for the year ended December 31, 2024: Number of bitcoins Amount (1) Balance at December 31, 2023 642.4 $ 19,818,980 Cumulative effect of the adoption of ASU 2023-08 - 7,341,319 Receipt of BTC from mining services 949.9 58,591,608 Exchange of BTC into ETH (639.5 ) (40,267,700 ) Exchange of BTC into USDC (35.0 ) (1,787,535 ) Sales of and payments made in BTC (175.9 ) (15,316,858 ) Change in fair value of BTC - 40,939,917 Balance at December 31, 2024 741.9 $ 69,319,731 (1) Receipt of digital assets from mining services are the product of the number of bitcoins received multiplied by the bitcoin price obtained from CoinMarketCap, calculated on a daily basis. Sales of bitcoin represent the carrying value of bitcoin at the time of sale. Environmental, Social and Governance Sustainability is a major strategic focus for us. Several of our mining locations in the US and Canada provide access to partially carbon-free energy and other sustainability-related solutions, in varying amounts depending on location, including components of hydroelectric, solar, wind, nuclear and other carbon-free generation sources, based on information provided by our hosts and publicly available data, which we believe helps mitigate the environmental impact of our operations. We work with an independent ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) consultant to self-monitor and adopt an environmental policy to help us to improve our percentage of green electricity and other sustainability initiatives. As we continue to align ourselves with the future of technology and business, we are dedicated to continuously enhancing sustainability, which we believe future-proofs our operations and the larger bitcoin network. We believe that the bitcoin network and the mining that powers it are important inventions in human progress. The process of problem-solving and verifying bitcoin transactions using advanced computers is energy intensive, and scrutiny has been applied to the industry for this reason. It follows that the environmental costs of mining bitcoin should be surveyed and mitigated by every company in our fast-growing sector. We aim to contribute to the acceleration of bitcoins decarbonization and act as a role model in our industry, responsibly stewarding digital assets. We work with Apex Group Ltd, an independent ESG consultancy, with the goal of becoming one the first publicly-listed bitcoin miners to receive an independent ESG rating on our operations, which we anticipate will provide transparency on the environmental sustainability of our operations, as well as other metrics. Apexs ESG Ratings & Advisory tools allow us to benchmark our ESG performance against international standards and our peers to identify opportunities for improvement and progress over time. We believe this is an integral approach to improving our sustainability practices and mitigating our environmental impact. By measuring the sustainability and footprint of Bit Digitals mining, we are able to develop targets to continuously improve as we shift towards our goal of 100% clean energy usage. On December 7, 2021, the Company became a member of the Bitcoin Mining Council (BMC), joining MicroStrategy and other founding members to promote transparency, share best practices, and educate the public on the benefits of bitcoin and bitcoin mining. 14 Employees Over the past year, we made significant investments in our workforce to attract and retain top-tier employees, significantly growing our employee base, especially in the HPC business. As of March 14, 2025, we and our subsidiaries collectively employed approximately 54 full-time employees, and consultants, across our entire organization. At the group level, our leadership team includes our CEO, Sam Tabar and our CFO, Erke Huang. Our cloud services employed a regional CEO and utilized services provided by our digital assets business. Our HPC data center business employed approximately eight people, including its regional CEO, CFO, CSO, and CTO. Additionally, we engage consultants and contractors as needed to supplement our full-time workforce. Available Information Our internet address is https://www.bit-digital.com/. We post links on our website to the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed or furnished to the SEC: annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements on Schedule 14D, and any amendment to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All such filings are available through our website free of charge. The information on our Internet website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K or our other securities filings and is not a part of such filings. Information about the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or 1-202-551-8090. You can also access our filings through the SECs internet address site: www.sec.gov, under our Nasdaq ticker BTBT. Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our Ordinary Shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all other information contained in this report, including the matters discussed under the heading Forward-Looking Statements before you decide to invest in our Ordinary Shares. The Company may be subject to various legal and operational risks as a result of its previously being a China-based Issuer with substantial amounts of the Companys operations previously in China and Hong Kong. The legal and regulatory environment in China is in many respects different from the United States. These risks and others could result in a material change in the value of our securities and/or significantly limit or completely limit or completely hinder our ability to offer or continue to offer our securities to investors and cause the value of such securities to significantly decline or be worthless. If any of the following risks, or any other risks and uncertainties that are not presently foreseeable to us, actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and our future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. The Company is not required to provide the information called for in this item due to its status as a Smaller Reporting Company, however we describe below some of the risks we believe are material to our business. You should carefully consider the following risks in evaluating us and our business. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this report, including the information set forth in Business and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as well as in our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of the following risks. General Risks We have a history of operating losses, and we may not be able to sustain profitability; we have recently shifted our emphasis from our digital assets mining business, to cloud services and HPC data centers and we may not be continuously successful in this business. For the year ended December 31, 2023 (Fiscal 2023), as a result of the decline in revenue from digital assets mining, we recognized a net loss of $13.9 million. Although we have experienced profitability from our cloud services and HPC data centers for the year ended December 31, 2024 (Fiscal 2024), we may incur losses as we continue to work to shift and grow our cloud services and HPC data centers businesses. Our current business, including our growth strategy for our business, involves industries that are itself new and constantly evolving and is subject risks, many of which are discussed below. See Digital Assets Related Risks below. 15 Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Our results of operations, including the levels of our net revenues, expenses, net loss and other key metrics, may vary significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, especially given our limited cloud services and HPC data centers operating history. As a result of adverse factors described below, there can be no assurance we will achieve and maintain profitability. The results for any one quarter are not necessarily an indication of future performance. Fluctuations in quarterly results may adversely affect the market price of our Ordinary Shares. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our annual financial results include: the amount and timing of operating expenses related to our new business operations and infrastructure; and general economic, industry and market conditions. We may acquire other businesses, form joint ventures or acquire other companies or businesses that could negatively affect our operating results, dilute our shareholders ownership, increase our debt or cause us to incur significant expense; notwithstanding the foregoing, our growth may depend on our success in uncovering and completing such transactions. We seek to enter cloud services and HPC data centers businesses around the globe. However, we cannot offer any assurance that acquisitions of businesses, assets and/or entering into strategic alliances or joint ventures will be successful. We may not be able to find suitable partners or acquisition candidates and may not be able to complete such transactions on favorable terms, if at all. If we make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing infrastructure. In addition, in the event we acquire any existing businesses we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities. Any future acquisitions also could result in the issuance of shares, incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or future write-offs of intangible assets or goodwill, any of which could have a negative impact on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Integration of an acquired company may also disrupt ongoing operations and require management resources that otherwise would be focused on developing and expanding our existing business. We may experience losses related to potential investments in other companies, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, strategic alliance or joint venture if such investments do not materialize. To finance any acquisitions or joint ventures, we may choose to issue Ordinary Shares, preference shares or a combination of debt and equity as consideration, which could significantly dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders or provide rights to such preferred shareholders in priority over our Ordinary Shareholders. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If the price of our Ordinary Shares is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other companies or fund a joint venture project using shares as consideration. Our new services and changes to existing services could fail to attract or retain users or generate revenue and profits, or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our ability to retain, increase, and engage our user base and to increase our revenue depends heavily on our ability to continue to evolve our existing services and to create successful new services, both independently and in conjunction with developers or other third parties. We may introduce significant changes to our existing services or acquire or introduce new and unproven services, including using technologies with which we have little or no prior development or operating experience. These efforts, including the introduction of new services or changes to existing services, may result in new or enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny, litigation, ethical concerns, or other complications that could adversely affect our business, reputation, or financial results. If our new services fail to engage users or developers, or if our business plans are unsuccessful, we may fail to attract or retain users or to generate sufficient revenue, operating margin, or other value to justify our investments, and our business may be adversely affected. 16 From time to time we may evaluate and potentially consummate strategic investments, combinations, joint-ventures, acquisitions or alliances, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial results. We may evaluate and consider strategic investments, combinations, joint-ventures, acquisitions or alliances in the bitcoin mining, cloud services or HPC data centers and related businesses around the globe. These transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations if consummated. If we are able to identify an appropriate business opportunity, we may not be able to successfully consummate the transaction and, even if we do consummate such a transaction, we may be unable to obtain the benefits or avoid the difficulties and risks of such transaction. Strategic investments or acquisitions will involve risks commonly encountered in business relationships, including: difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, systems, data, technologies, products and services of the acquired business; inability of the acquired technologies, products or businesses to achieve expected levels of revenue, profitability, productivity or other benefits; difficulties in retaining, training, motivating and integrating key personnel; diversion of managements time and resources from our normal daily operations; difficulties in successfully incorporating licensed or acquired technology and rights into our businesses; difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies within the combined organizations; difficulties in retaining relationships with customers, employees and suppliers of the acquired business; risks of entering markets, in parts of the United States or abroad, in which we have limited or no prior experience; regulatory risks, including remaining in good standing with existing regulatory bodies or receiving any necessary pre-closing or post-closing approvals, as well as being subject to new regulators with oversight over an acquired business; assumption of contractual obligations that contain terms that are not beneficial to us, require us to license or waive intellectual property rights or increase our risk for liability; failure to successfully further develop the acquired technology; liability for activities of the acquired business before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; potential disruptions to our ongoing businesses; and unexpected costs and unknown risks and liabilities associated with strategic investments or acquisitions. We may not make any investments or acquisitions, or any future investments or acquisitions may not be successful, may not benefit our business strategy, may not generate sufficient revenues to offset the associated acquisition costs or may not otherwise result in the intended benefits. In addition, we cannot assure you that any future investment in or acquisition of new businesses or technology will achieve market acceptance or prove to be profitable. Any future acquisitions also could result in the issuance of shares, incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or future write-offs of intangible assets or goodwill, any of which could have a negative impact on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Integration of an acquired company may also disrupt ongoing operations and require management resources that otherwise would be focused on developing and expanding our existing business. We may experience losses related to potential investments in other companies, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, strategic alliance or joint venture if such investments do not materialize. To finance any acquisitions or joint ventures, we may choose to issue ordinary shares, preference shares or a combination of debt and equity as consideration, which could significantly dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If the price of our ordinary shares is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other companies or fund a joint venture project using shares as consideration. 17 The loss of any member of our management team, our inability to execute an effective succession plan, or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success and future growth will depend to a significant degree on the skills and services of our management team, including Mr. Sam Tabar, our Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Erke Huang, our Chief Financial Officer. We have recently hired several key members of Senior Management including executive officers, Billy Krassakopoulos, CEO of Enovum, and Thomas Sanfilippo, Chief Technology Officer, in order to grow WhiteFibers business. We will need to continue to grow our management in order to alleviate pressure on our existing team and in order to continue to develop our business. If our management team, including any new hires that we may make, fails to work together effectively and to execute our plans and strategies on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. Furthermore, if we fail to execute an effective contingency or succession plan with the loss of any member of management, the loss of such management personnel may significantly disrupt our business. The loss of key members of management could inhibit our growth prospects. Our future success also depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key management and operating personnel. As we continue to develop and expand our operations, we may require personnel with different skills and experiences, and who have a sound understanding of our business and the digital asset industry. The market for highly qualified personnel in this industry is very competitive, and we may be unable to attract or retain such personnel. If we are unable to attract or retain such personnel, our business could be harmed. We incur significant costs and demands upon management and accounting and finance resources as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies; if we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements and otherwise make timely and accurate public disclosure could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our reputation. As a public company, we are required to, among other things, maintain a system of effective internal control over financial reporting. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting