Managements discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations Seasonality in Item 7 in this report. Financial Information about Geographic Areas For information about revenues by geographic region and long-lived assets by geographic region, please see Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. For a description of risks attendant to our non-U.S. operations, please see Risk factors - If we do not successfully address the risks inherent in the expansion of our international operations, our business could suffer in Item 1A in this report. Working Capital For a discussion of our working capital practices, see Managements discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations Liquidity and capital resources in Item 7 in this report. Available Information Our website address is www.blackbaud.com . We make available, free of charge through our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as is reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC, but other information on our website is not incorporated into this report. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains these reports at www.sec.gov . The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Executive Officers The following table sets forth information concerning our executive officers as of February 15, 2015: Name Age Title Michael P. Gianoni 54 President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony W. Boor 52 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Charles T. Cumbaa (1) 62 Executive Vice President, Corporate and Product Strategy Interim President, Enterprise Customer Business Unit Kevin Mooney 56 President, General Markets Business Unit Bradley J. Holman 53 President, International Business Unit John J. Mistretta 59 Executive Vice President of Human Resources (1) In January 2015, Joseph W. Moye tendered his resignation from his position as President, Enterprise Customer Business Unit effective as of January 30, 2015. Mr. Moye will continue as an employee of the Company until March 15, 2015 in a transitional capacity. Mr. Cumbaa, was appointed as interim head of the Enterprise Customer Business Unit while we search for Mr. Moyes replacement. Michael P. Gianoni joined us as President and Chief Executive Officer in January 2014. Prior to joining us, he served as Executive Vice President and Group President, Financial Institutions at Fiserv, Inc., a global technology provider serving the financial services industry, from January 2010 to December 2013. He joined Fiserv as President of its Investment Services division in December 2007. Mr. Gianoni was Executive Vice President and General Manager of CheckFree Investment Services, which provided investment management solutions to financial services organizations, from June 2006 until December 2007 when CheckFree was acquired by Fiserv. From May 1994 to November 2005, he served as Senior Vice President of DST Systems Inc., a global provider of technology-based service solutions. Mr. Gianoni is a member of the Board of Directors of Teradata Corporation, a publicly traded global big data analytics and marketing applications company. He holds an AS in electrical engineering from Waterbury State Technical College, a BS with a business concentration from Charter Oak State College, and an MBA and an honorary Doctorate, from the University of New Haven. Anthony W. Boor joined us as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in November 2011 and served as our interim President and Chief Executive Officer from August 2013 to January 2014. In January 2015, Mr. Boor's title was changed to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining us, he served as an executive with Brightpoint, Inc., a global provider of device lifecycle services to the wireless industry, beginning in 1999, most recently as its Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. He also served as the interim President of Europe, Middle East and Africa during Brightpoint's significant restructuring of that region. Mr. Boor served as Director of Business Operations for Brightpoint North America from August 1998 to July 1999. Prior to joining Brightpoint, Mr. Boor was employed in various financial positions with Macmillan Computer Publishing, Inc., a Viacom owned book publishing company specializing in computer hardware and software related topics, Day Dream Publishing, Inc., a publishing company specializing in calendars, posters and time management materials, Ernst & Young LLP, an accounting firm, Expo New Mexico, a state owned fair and expo grounds and live pari-mutual horse racing venue, KPMG LLP, an accounting firm, and Ernst & Whinney LLP, an accounting firm. He holds a BS in Accounting from New Mexico State University. Charles T. Cumbaa has served as our Senior Vice President of Corporate and Product Strategy since May 2012 and now serves as our Executive Vice President of Corporate and Product Strategy, and our Interim President, Enterprise Customer Business Unit since January 2015. He joined us in May 2001 and served as Senior Vice President of Products and Services until December 2009. He also served as our President, Enterprise Customer Business Unit from January 2010 to April 2012. Prior to joining us, Mr. Cumbaa was Executive Vice President with Intertech Information Management, a provider of document management solutions, from December 1998 until October 2000. From 1992 until 1998, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Cognitech, Inc., a software company he founded. From 1984 to 1992 he was Executive Vice President of Sales and Services at Sales Technologies, a sales force automation company. Prior to that, he was employed by McKinsey & Company, a consulting firm. Mr. Cumbaa holds a BA from Mississippi State University and an MBA from Harvard Business School. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Kevin W. Mooney has served as our President, General Markets Business Unit since January 2010. He joined us in July 2008 as our Chief Commercial Officer. Before joining Blackbaud, Mr. Mooney was a senior executive at Travelport GDS from August 2007 to May 2008. As Chief Commercial Officer of Travelport GDS, one of the world's largest providers of information services and transaction processing to the travel industry, Mr. Mooney was responsible for global sales, marketing, training, service and support activities. Prior to that he was Chief Financial Officer for Worldspan from March 2005 until it was acquired by Travelport in August 2007. Mr. Mooney has also held key executive positions in the telecommunications industry and he is a member of the Board of Directors of Level 3 Communications, Inc., a publicly traded global managed network services company. Mr. Mooney graduated from Seton Hall University and holds an MBA in Finance from Georgia State University. Bradley J. Holman has served as our President, International Business Unit since November 2010. Prior to joining Blackbaud, Mr. Holman served as Partner and Chief Commercial Officer at ATI Business Group, a Jakarta-based company that provides outsourcing and technical services to the aviation and travel sectors, from February 2010 to October 2010. Prior to that, from June 2006 to February 2010, Mr. Holman served as President of Travelport's Asia Pacific operations, which provides information services and transaction processing to the travel industry. From July 2001 to May 2006, Mr. Holman held various senior management roles at Travelport, including Senior Vice President of airline services in Asia Pacific and Managing Director of operations in Europe, Middle East and Africa. Mr. Holman holds a BCom. from University of Western Australia. John J. Mistretta joined us as our Senior Vice President of Human Resources in August 2005. In January 2015, Mr. Mistretta's title was changed to Executive Vice President of Human Resources. Prior to joining us, Mr. Mistretta was an Executive Vice President of Human Resources and Alternative Businesses at National Commerce Financial Corporation, a financial services company, from 1998 to 2005. Earlier in his career, Mr. Mistretta held various senior Human Resources positions over a thirteen year period at the banking firm Citicorp. Mr. Mistretta holds a MS in Counseling and a BA in Psychology from the State University of New York at Oswego. Item 1A. Risk factors Our business operations face a number of risks. These risks should be read and considered with other information provided in this report. Our failure to compete successfully could cause our revenue or market share to decline. Our market is fragmented, highly competitive and rapidly evolving and there are limited barriers to entry for some aspects of this market. We mainly face competition from four sources: Software developers offering specialized products designed to address specific needs of nonprofit, charitable giving and educational organizations, some of which are sold with subscription pricing; Providers of traditional, less automated fundraising services, such as services that support traditional direct mail or email campaigns, special events fundraising, telemarketing and personal solicitations; Custom-developed products created either internally or outsourced to custom service providers; and Software developers offering general products not designed to address specific needs of nonprofit, charitable giving and educational organizations. The companies we compete with and other potential competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources and generate greater revenue and better name recognition than we do. Companies such as Microsoft, Salesforce.com and Oracle offer some products that are designed specifically for nonprofit organizations, and also have products with a degree of functionality for nonprofit organizations that could be considered competitive. Also, if one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with one of our other competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. For example, a large diversified software enterprise, such as Microsoft, Oracle or Salesforce.com, could decide to enter the market directly, including through acquisitions. Competitive pressures can adversely impact our business by limiting the prices we can charge our customers and making the adoption and renewal of our solutions more difficult. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our competitors might also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with resellers and third-party consulting firms or other parties with whom we have had relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our products. These competitive pressures could cause our revenue and market share to decline. A substantial portion of our revenue is currently derived from The Raiser's Edge, Luminate Online, Blackbaud CRM and The Financial Edge, and a decline in sales or renewals of these or similar products and related services could harm our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of The Raiser's Edge, Luminate Online, Blackbaud CRM and The Financial Edge, and other products that help customers manage constituent relationships and related services, and we expect revenue from these products and related services to continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. For example, revenue from the sale of The Raiser's Edge and related services represented approximately 24% , 28% and 30% of our total revenue in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Because we often sell licenses to our products on a perpetual basis and deliver new versions and enhancements to customers who purchase annual maintenance and support, our future license, services and maintenance revenue are substantially dependent on sales to new customers. On the other hand, for our subscription products, we sell our software on an annual or multiyear basis and for annualized fees substantially lower than we would charge for a perpetual license for the same product, so that we depend on customer renewals for future revenues. If renewal rates for the products are lower than expected for any reason, our operating results would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we frequently sell these or similar products to new customers and then attempt to generate incremental revenue from the sale of additional products and services. If demand for The Raiser's Edge, Luminate Online, Blackbaud CRM, The Financial Edge or similar products declines significantly, our business would suffer. We encounter lengthy sales cycles, which could have an adverse effect on the amount, timing and predictability of our revenue and sales. Potential customers, particularly our larger enterprise clients, generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and require us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them as to the value of our software and services. Sales of our software products to these larger customers often require an extensive education and marketing effort. We could expend significant funds and management resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. Historically, our software product sales cycle averages approximately two months for sales to existing customers and from six to nine months for sales to new customers. Our sales cycle for all of our products and services is subject to significant risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including: Our customers' budgetary constraints; The timing of our clients' budget cycles and approval processes; The impact of the macroeconomic environment on our customers; Our clients' willingness to replace their current methods or software solutions; Our need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our products and services; and The timing and expiration of our clients' current license agreements or outsourcing agreements for similar services. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds and management resources or if we experience delays as discussed above, it could have a material adverse effect on the amount, timing and predictability of our revenue and on our operating results. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We encounter long and complex implementation cycles, particularly for our largest customers, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability and the timing and predictability of our revenue. The implementation of our products and services, particularly in our large CRM engagements, frequently involves complex configuration, business process reengineering and system interfaces and can extend for a year or more. Our enterprise CRM product offerings are complex and we may experience unanticipated implementation challenges or complexities in these engagements. Further, these projects typically are heavily dependent on customer participation, communication and timely responsiveness throughout the implementation cycle. As the complexity of these engagements increases, our revenues and profitability could suffer from delays in project completion and having to perform unplanned incremental services at rates substantially below our normal hourly rates or make investments in the form of non-billable service hours or other concessions. In certain arrangements, our ability to recognize revenue may be delayed until acceptance of the implemented product by the customer. If we are unsuccessful in implementing our products or if we experience delays, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and the timing and predictability of our revenue. If our customers do not renew their annual maintenance and support agreements or subscriptions for our products or if they do not renew them on terms that are favorable to us, our business might suffer. Most of our maintenance agreements are for a one year term. Our subscription arrangements are typically either for a one year term or a three year term. As the end of the annual period approaches, we seek the renewal of the agreement with the customer. Historically, maintenance and subscriptions renewals have represented a significant portion of our total revenue. Because of this characteristic of our business, if our customers choose not to renew their maintenance and support agreements or subscriptions with us on beneficial terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our products and services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. We might not generate increased business from our current customers, which could limit our revenue in the future. Our ability to grow revenue is highly dependent on the success of our efforts to sell additional products and services to our existing customers. Many of our customers initially make a purchase of only one or a limited number of our products or only for a single department within their organization. These customers might choose not to expand their use of or make additional purchases of our products and services. If we fail to generate additional business from our current customers, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or even decrease. In addition, as we deploy new applications and features for our existing products or introduce new products and services, our current customers could choose not to purchase these new offerings. The offering of our products on a subscription basis is evolving and demand by our customers for these offerings is increasing. Our failure to manage this evolution and demand could lead to lower than expected revenues and profits. In recent years, much of our revenue growth was derived from increased subscription offerings, including SaaS. This business model depends heavily on achieving economies of scale because the initial upfront investment is costly and the associated revenue is recognized on a ratable basis, such as our recently announced Raiser's Edge NXT and Financial Edge NXT products. If we fail to achieve appropriate economies of scale or if we fail to manage or anticipate the evolution and demand for the subscription software pricing models, then our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The additional investments required to meet customer demand will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. Defects, delays or interruptions in our cloud-based and hosting services could diminish demand for these services and subject us to substantial liability. We currently utilize data center hosting facilities to provide cloud-based and hosting services to our customers. Any damage to, or failure of, our data center systems generally could result in interruptions in service to our customers, notwithstanding any disaster recovery arrangements that may currently be in place at these facilities. Because our cloud-based and hosting service offerings are complex, and we have incorporated a variety of new computer hardware and software systems at our data centers, our services might have errors or defects that users identify after they begin using our services. This could result in unanticipated downtime for our customers and harm to our reputation and our business. Internet-based services frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our Internet-based services and new errors might again be detected in the future. In addition, our customers might use our Internet-based offerings in unanticipated ways that cause a disruption in service for other customers attempting to access their data. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Because our customers use these services for important aspects of their businesses, any defects, delays or disruptions in service or other performance problems with our services could hurt our reputation and damage our customers' businesses. If that occurs, customers could elect to cancel their service, delay or withhold payment to us, not purchase from us in the future or make claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. Any of these could harm our business and our reputation. The market for software and services for nonprofit, charitable giving and educational organizations might not grow and these organizations might not continue to adopt our products and services. Many nonprofit organizations have not traditionally used integrated and comprehensive software and services for their nonprofit-specific needs. We cannot be certain that the market for such products and services will continue to develop and grow or that nonprofit organizations will elect to adopt our products and services rather than continue to use traditional, less automated methods, attempt to develop software internally, rely upon legacy software systems, or use software solutions not specifically designed for the nonprofit market. Nonprofit organizations that have already invested substantial resources in other fundraising methods or other non-integrated software solutions might be reluctant to adopt our products and services to supplement or replace their existing systems or methods. In addition, the implementation of one or more of our core software products can involve significant time and capital commitments by our customers, which they may be unwilling or unable to make. If demand for and market acceptance of our products and services does not increase, we might not grow our business as we expect. If we are unable, or customers believe we are unable, to detect and prevent unauthorized use of credit cards and safeguard confidential donor data, we could be subject to financial liability, our reputation could be harmed and customers may be reluctant to use our products and services. Advances in computer capabilities, computer hacker attacks, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect sensitive transaction data. If any such compromise of our security, or the security of our customers, were to occur, it could result in misappropriation of proprietary information or interruptions in operations and have an adverse impact on our reputation or the reputation of our customers. All of our products are currently certified as Payment Application Data Security Standard compliant. Currently some of our products are not fully compliant with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, or PCI DSS. Under the PCI DSS, we are required to adopt and implement internal controls over the use, storage and security of card data to help prevent credit card fraud. Failure to comply may subject us to fines, penalties, damages and civil liability. If we are not fully compliant and our customers believe we are unable to detect and prevent unauthorized use of credit cards or confidential donor data, our business may be harmed. Conforming our products and services to PCI DSS or other payment services related regulations is also expensive and time-consuming. Additionally, if we do not comply with PCI DSS, issuing banks may believe that the transactions of our customers are compromised and may refuse to process those transactions. Any such refusal could harm the reputation of our products and our business. Our operations process a significant volume and dollar value of transactions on a daily basis, especially in our payroll and payments businesses. Due to the size and volume of transactions that we handle, effective processing systems and controls are essential to ensure that transactions are handled appropriately. Despite our efforts, it is possible that we may make errors or that funds may be misappropriated due to fraud. The systems supporting our business are comprised of multiple technology platforms that are difficult to scale. If we are unable to effectively manage our systems and processes we may be unable to process customer data in an accurate, reliable and timely manner, which may harm our business. In our payments processing services business, if merchants for whom we process payment transactions are unable to pay refunds due to their customers in connection with disputed or fraudulent merchant transactions, we may be required to pay those amounts and our payments may exceed the amount of the customer reserves we have established to make such payments. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As a result of the evolution of our business model to meet customer demand, nearly 70% of our revenue is now from subscriptions and services, which produces substantially lower gross margins than our traditional license and maintenance revenue. Continuation of this trend will dilute our overall gross margins. Over the past several years we have evolved our business model toward subscription and service based delivery and away from the traditional software model of perpetual licenses with term-based maintenance. For example, in 2014 our subscriptions and services revenue together comprised nearly 70% of our total revenue. These changes in our model have been driven by customer demand, and we believe have the long-term benefit of producing more predictable and recurring long-term revenue streams. However our subscription and services revenue generate substantially lower gross margins than our product license revenue. For example, in 2014 , our subscriptions and services gross margins were 49% and 17% , respectively, whereas for the same period our license and maintenance revenue gross margins were 89% and 83% , respectively. We expect that over time the shift toward subscription and services revenue will continue. If we are unable to achieve economies of scale in our subscription business or increase efficiency in our services business, our overall margins will be adversely affected. Additionally, if our customers and prospects, desire to adopt our subscription offerings much more rapidly than we currently anticipate and we are unable to respond in a timely fashion, we could encounter significant adverse effects to our business, including substantial capital expenditures, reduction in profitability, decrease in revenue growth and/or we could become potentially less competitive, resulting in a loss of market share. Certain of our services are contracted under fixed fee arrangements, which we base on estimates. If our estimated number of hours to perform implementation services on a fixed fee engagement are less than our actual hours, our operating results would be adversely affected. Services revenue as a percentage of total revenue has varied significantly from quarter to quarter due to fluctuations in licensing revenue, economic changes, varying accounting treatments, changes in the average selling prices for our products and services, our customers' acceptance of our products and our sales force execution. In addition, the volume and profitability of services can depend in large part upon: Competitive pricing pressure on the rates that we can charge for our services; The complexity of the customers' information technology environment and the existence of multiple non-integrated legacy databases; The resources directed by customers to their implementation projects; The extent of software customization included in the implementation projects; and The extent to which outside consulting organizations provide services directly to customers. A decrease in the demand for services could adversely affect our profitability and operating results. If we fail to respond to technological changes and successfully introduce new and improved products, our competitive position may be harmed and our business may suffer. The software industry is characterized by technological change, evolving industry standards in hardware and software technology, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products encompassing new technologies, such as our recently announced Raiser's Edge NXT and Financial Edge NXT products, can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to enhance existing products and develop and introduce in a timely manner or acquire new products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. There is no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Further, there can be no assurance that the products, capabilities or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, because our service is designed to operate on a variety of network hardware and software platforms using a standard browser, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our service to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. We have made and continue to make significant investments to develop new technologies, and these investments may not bear fruit. Occasionally, we have been required to write down investments in product development after determining that we would no longer pursue the related product opportunity in accordance with evolving industry and customer requirements. If we are unable to develop or acquire on a timely and cost-effective basis new software products or enhancements to existing products or if such new products or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Because competition for highly qualified personnel is intense, we might not be able to attract and retain key personnel and personnel we need to support our planned growth. To meet our objectives successfully, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel with specialized skill sets. If we are unable to attract suitably qualified management, there could be a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, to execute our continuing growth plans, we need to increase the size and maintain the quality of our sales force, software development staff and our professional services organization. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, and we might not be successful in attracting and retaining them. The pool of qualified personnel with experience working with or selling to nonprofit, charitable giving and educational organizations is limited overall and specifically in Charleston, South Carolina, where our principal office is located. Our ability to maintain and expand our sales, product development and professional services teams will depend on our ability to recruit, train and retain top quality people with advanced skills who understand sales to, and the specific needs of, nonprofit, charitable giving and educational organizations. For these reasons, we have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications for our business. In addition, it takes time for our new sales and services personnel to become productive, particularly with respect to obtaining and supporting major customer accounts. We might also engage additional third-party consultants as contractors, which could have a negative impact on our earnings. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel, or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or reach productivity slower than anticipated, it would be more difficult for us to sell our products and services, we could experience a shortfall in revenue or earnings and not achieve our planned growth. Further, in the past, we have used equity incentive programs as part of our overall employee compensation arrangements to both attract and retain personnel. A decline in our stock price could negatively impact the value of these equity incentive and related compensation programs as retention and recruiting tools. We may need to create new or additional equity incentive programs and/or compensation packages to remain competitive, which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders and/or adversely affect our results of operations. If we do not successfully address the risks inherent in the expansion of our international operations, our business could suffer. We currently have non-U.S. operations in Canada, United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand, and we intend to expand further into international markets. We have limited experience in international operations and might not be able to compete effectively in international markets. Our international offices generated revenues of approximately $72.7 million , $63.9 million and $61.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Accordingly, international revenue increased 13.8% and 4.8% in 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Expansion of our international operations will require a significant amount of attention from our management and substantial financial resources and might require us to add qualified management in these markets. Our direct sales model requires us to attract, retain and manage qualified sales personnel capable of selling into markets outside the United States. In some cases, our costs of sales might increase if our customers require us to sell through local distributors. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we are unable to grow our international operations in a cost effective and timely manner, our business and operating results could be harmed. Doing business internationally involves additional risks that could harm our operating results, including: Difficulties associated with and costs of staffing and managing international operations; Differing technology standards; Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; Political and economic instability; Imposition of currency exchange controls; Potentially adverse tax consequences; Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in certain countries; Dependence on local vendors; Protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition; Compliance with multiple conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; Seasonal reductions in business activity specific to certain markets; Longer sales cycles; Restrictions on repatriation of earnings or new taxation thereon; Differing labor regulations; Differing accounting rules and practices; Restrictive and varying privacy regulations in different countries, particularly in the European Union; Restrictions on the export of technologies such as data security and encryption; Compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; and Import and export restrictions and tariffs. We expect that an increasing portion of our international revenues will be denominated in foreign currencies, subjecting us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we expand our international operations, exposures to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions may increase. Material defects or errors in the software we use to deliver our services could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our services. The software applications underlying our services are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our software, and new errors in our existing software may be detected in the future. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our services could result in adverse impacts to our business, including: A reduction in sales or delay in market acceptance of our services; Sales credits or refunds to our customers; Loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers; Diversion of development resources; Harm to our reputation; and Increased warranty and insurance costs. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements After the release of our software, defects or errors may also be identified from time to time by our internal team and by our customers. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our software may be substantial and could harm our operating results. Furthermore, our customers may use our software together with products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation and cause significant customer relations problems. Our failure to obtain licenses for third-party technologies could harm our business. We expect to continue licensing technologies from third parties, including applications used in our research and development activities, technologies which are integrated into our products and products that we resell. We believe that the loss of any third-party technologies currently integrated into our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our inability in the future to obtain any third-party licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could delay future product development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed and integrated. This inability in turn would harm our business and operating results. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our products, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. Future acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and strain our resources. As part of our business strategy, we have made acquisitions in the past, and, we might acquire additional companies, services and technologies that we feel could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities, provide us with important customer contacts or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The successful integration of acquired companies will require, among other things, coordination of various departments, including product development, engineering, sales and marketing and finance, as well as integration in our system of internal controls. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: Difficulties or delays in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel; Difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers of our acquired companies; Diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; Risks of entering new sectors of the nonprofit, charitable giving and educational industries; Potential loss of key employees; and Inability to generate sufficient return on investment. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations and personnel of our recently acquired companies, or if there is any significant delay in achieving integration, we will not realize the revenue growth, synergies and other anticipated benefits we expected and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Acquisitions also frequently result in recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our operating results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, our existing stockholders would be diluted which, in turn, could affect the market price of our stock. Moreover, we could finance any acquisition with debt, resulting in higher leverage and interest costs. As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. Furthermore, if we incur additional debt to fund acquisitions and are unable to service our debt obligation we may have a greater risk of default under our credit facility. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we are unable to retain key personnel of our acquisitions, our business may suffer. The success of our acquisitions will depend in part on our ability to retain their engineering, sales, marketing, development and other personnel. It is possible that these employees might decide to terminate their employment. If key employees terminate their employment, the sales, marketing or development activities of acquired companies might be adversely affected, our management's attention might be diverted from successfully integrating the acquired operations and to hiring suitable replacements and, as a result, our business might suffer. Because a significant portion of our revenue is recognized ratably over the terms of the contract, downturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our revenue. We recognize our maintenance and subscriptions revenue monthly over the term of the customer agreement. Most of our maintenance agreements are for a one year term. Our subscription arrangements are typically either for a one year term or a three year term. As a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is attributable to agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in sales to new customers, renewals by existing customers or market acceptance of our products in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenues in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenues and profitability in future quarters. We significantly increased our leverage in connection with acquisitions. We incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness in connection with recent acquisitions. As a result of this indebtedness, our interest payment obligations have increased. The degree to which we are leveraged could have adverse effects on our business, including the following: Requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and other general corporate purposes; Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; Restricting us from making additional strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; Limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and Decreasing our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic and industry conditions. If we incur additional debt, these risks will intensify. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to the financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets could negatively affect our operating results. As of December 31, 2014 , we had $349.0 million and $229.3 million of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. If the carrying value of an asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a non-cash charge to operating earnings. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could materially negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to manage our anticipated growth effectively, our operating costs may increase and our operating margins may decrease. We will need to continue to grow our infrastructure to address our acquisitions and other potential market opportunities. Our growth will continue to place, to the extent that we are able to sustain such growth, a strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. If we continue to grow our operations, by way of additional business combinations or otherwise, we may not be effective in enlarging our physical facilities and our systems and our procedures or controls may not be adequate to support such expansion or our business generally. If we are unable to manage our growth, our operating costs may increase and our operating margins may decrease. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our quarterly financial results fluctuate and might be difficult to forecast and, if our future results are below either any guidance we might issue or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock might decline. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations are difficult to forecast. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in revenue and operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that such comparisons might not be accurate indicators of future performance. The reasons for these fluctuations include but are not limited to: The size and timing of sales of our software, including the relatively long sales cycles associated with many of our larger software sales; Budget and spending decisions by our customers; The degree of judgment required to estimate large consulting service engagements; Scheduling considerations by our customers as they impact the delivery of purchased services; Varying accounting treatments based upon the facts and circumstances of each arrangement; Utilization of our professional services personnel; Market acceptance of new products we release or acquire; Changes in general economic conditions and conditions in the markets we serve; Costs related to acquisitions of technologies or businesses; The growth rates of certain market segments in which we compete; The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operations and expansion of our business; Changes in our pricing policies and terms of contracts, whether initiated by us or as a result of competition; The rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force and the impact of reorganizations of our sales force; Technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; Changes in foreign currency exchange rates; Changes in the effective tax rates due to changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and our ability to utilize them, changes in federal, state or international tax laws and accounting principles, changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information that results in a recognition, derecognition or change in measurement of a tax position taken in a prior period, results of tax examinations by local and foreign taxing authorities; Expenses related to significant, unusual or discrete events which are recorded in the period in which the events occur; Regulatory compliance costs; and Extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them might cause our operating results to vary widely. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues, operating results, changes in our deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue balances and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our operating expenses, which include sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses, are based on our expectations of future revenue and are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. If revenue falls below our expectations in a quarter and we are not able to quickly reduce our operating expenses in response, our operating results for that quarter could be adversely affected. It is possible that in some future quarter our operating results may be below either any guidance we might issue or the expectations of public market analysts and investors and, as a result, the price of our common stock might fall. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Restrictions in our credit facility may limit our activities, including dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions. Our credit facility contains restrictions, including covenants limiting our ability to incur additional debt, grant liens, make acquisitions and other investments, prepay specified debt, consolidate, merge or acquire other businesses, sell assets, pay dividends and other distributions, repurchase stock and enter into transactions with affiliates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with the covenants to which we are subject in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from our lenders or amend the covenants. In the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings, which we might not be able to do. In addition, certain of our material domestic subsidiaries will be required to guarantee amounts borrowed under the credit facility, and we have pledged the shares of certain of our subsidiaries as collateral for our obligations under the credit facility. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate, including allowing lenders under the credit facility to enforce guarantees of our subsidiaries, if any, or exercise their rights with respect to the shares pledged as collateral. Our business and financial performance could be negatively impacted by changes in tax laws or regulations. Our customers and we are subject to a wide variety of tax laws and regulations in jurisdictions around the world. New or revised income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time. Further, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to our customers or us. Any changes to these existing tax laws could adversely affect our domestic and international business operations, and our business and financial performance. Additionally, these events could require us or our customers to pay additional tax amounts on a prospective or retroactive basis, as well as require our customers or us to pay fines and/or penalties and interest for past amounts deemed to be due. Additionally, new, changed, modified or newly interpreted or applied tax laws could increase our customers' and our compliance, operating and other costs, as well as the costs of our products. Any or all of these events could adversely impact our business and financial performance. We have recorded significant deferred tax assets, and we might never realize their full value, which would result in a charge against our earnings. As of December 31, 2014 , we had deferred tax assets of $56.8 million . Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon our generating sufficient taxable income in future years to realize the tax benefit from those assets. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at least annually for realizability. A charge against our earnings would result if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. This could be caused by, among other things, deterioration in performance, loss of key contracts, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products sold by our business and a variety of other factors. If a deferred tax asset was determined to be not realizable in a future period, the charge to earnings would be recognized as an expense in our results of operations in the period the determination is made. Additionally, if we are unable to utilize our deferred tax assets, our cash flow available to fund operations could be adversely affected. Depending on future circumstances, it is possible that we might never realize the full value of our deferred tax assets. Any future determination of impairment of a significant portion of our deferred tax assets would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. Included in our deferred tax asset balance is $11.2 million related to federal net operating loss carryforwards at December 31, 2014 . Our federal net operating loss carryforwards are subject to limitations on how much may be utilized on an annual basis. The use of the net operating loss carryforwards may have additional limitations resulting from certain future ownership changes or other factors set forth in the Internal Revenue Code. If our net operating loss carryforwards are further limited, and we have taxable income that exceeds the available net operating loss carryforwards for that period, we would incur an income tax liability even though net operating loss carryforwards may be available in future years prior to their expiration, which would have an adverse effect on our future cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Claims that we or our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party may require us to incur significant costs, enter into royalty or licensing agreements or develop or license substitute technology. We may in the future be subject to claims that our technologies in our products and services infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party. In addition, the vendors providing us with technology that we use in our own technology could become subject to similar infringement claims. Although we believe that our products and services do not infringe any intellectual property or other proprietary rights, we cannot be certain that our products and services do not, or that they will not in the future, infringe intellectual property or other proprietary rights held by others. Any claims of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is without merit, and could distract our management from our business. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from the claim could require us to pay substantial amounts, or obtain a license to continue to use the products and services that are the subject of the claim, and/or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms from the third party asserting any particular claim, or that we would be able to successfully develop alternative technology on a timely basis, or that we would be able to obtain a license from another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, the products and services. In addition, we generally provide in our customer agreements for certain products and services that we will indemnify our customers against third-party infringement claims relating to technology we provide to those customers, which could obligate us to pay damages if the products and services were found to be infringing. Infringement claims asserted against us, our vendors or our customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our solutions utilize open source software, which may subject us to litigation, require us to re-engineer our solutions, or otherwise divert resources away from our development efforts. We use open source software in connection with certain of our solutions. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License, Apache-style licenses, BSD-style licenses and other open source licenses. There is little legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of some of these licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is currently unable to be determined and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products and technologies. From time to time, companies that incorporate open source software into their products have faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. Therefore, we could be subject to litigation by parties claiming ownership of open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their own software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. While we monitor our use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose the source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur and we may be required to release proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our applications, discontinue sales in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business. We rely upon trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights, which might not provide us with adequate protection. Our success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology rights. We might not be successful in protecting our proprietary technology and our proprietary rights might not provide us with a meaningful competitive advantage. To protect our core proprietary technology, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements, each of which affords only limited protection. We have no patent protection for The Raiser's Edge, which is one of our core products and responsible for a significant portion of our revenue. Any inability to protect our intellectual property rights could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. It is possible that: Any patents issued to us may not be timely or broad enough to protect our proprietary rights; Any issued patent could be successfully challenged by one or more third parties, which could result in our loss of the right to prevent others from exploiting the inventions claimed in those patents; and Current and future competitors may independently develop similar technologies, duplicate our products or design around any of our patents. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights in our products to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Despite the measures taken by us, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology and information without authorization. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and litigation could become necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any litigation could be time consuming and expensive to prosecute or resolve, and could result in substantial diversion of management attention and resources and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the security of our software is breached, we fail to securely collect, store and transmit customer information, or we fail to safeguard confidential donor data, our products and services might be perceived as not being secure and our reputation and business could suffer. Fundamental to the use of our products is the secure collection, storage and transmission of confidential donor and end user information, including in our payment processing business. The network and application security, internal control measures, and physical security procedures we employ to safeguard our systems may not be sufficient to prevent a security breach, intrusion, loss or theft of personal information, which may harm our business, reputation and future financial results. Any such breach may require significant resources to address, including notification under data privacy regulations. Additionally, despite our efforts to combat such threats, computer hackers may attempt to penetrate or bypass our data protection and other security measures and gain unauthorized access to our networks, systems and data or compromise the confidential information of data of our customers. Computer hackers may be able to develop and deploy computer viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that could attack our products and services, exploit potential security vulnerabilities of our products and services, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. Data may also be accessed or modified improperly as a result of employee or supplier error or malfeasance and third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data, our customers data or our IT systems. These risks for us will increase as we continue to grow our cloud-based offerings and services, store and process increasingly large amounts of our customers confidential information and data, host or manage parts of our customers business in cloud-based IT environments and grow our payment processing business, especially in customer sectors involving particularly sensitive data such as health sciences, financial services and the government. We also have an active acquisition program and have acquired a number of companies, products, services and technologies over the years. While we make significant efforts to address any IT security issues with respect to our acquisitions, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate these acquisitions within our business. A compromise of our data security that results in customer or donor personal or credit card information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. The existence of vulnerabilities, even if they do not result in a security breach, may harm customer confidence and require substantial resources to address, and we may not be able to discover or remedy such security vulnerabilities before they are exploited. Also, computers, including those that use our software, are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect further against security breaches or to rectify problems caused by any security breach. Even though we carry cyber-technology insurance policies that may provide insurance coverage under certain circumstances, we might suffer losses as a result of a security breach that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Privacy and security concerns, including evolving government regulation in the area of consumer data privacy, could adversely affect our business and operating results. The effectiveness of our software products relies on our customers' storage and use of data concerning their customers, including financial, personally identifying and other sensitive data. Our customers' collection and use of this data for donor profiling might raise privacy and security concerns and negatively impact the demand for our products and services. For example, our custom modeling and analytical services, including ProspectPoint, WealthPoint and donorCentrics, rely heavily on securing and making use of data we gather from various sources and privacy laws could jeopardize our ability to market and profit from those services. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Governments in some jurisdictions have enacted or are considering enacting consumer data privacy legislation, including laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing and use of consumer data. This legislation could reduce the demand for our software products if we fail to design or enhance our products to enable our customers to comply with the privacy and security measures required by the legislation. Moreover, we may be exposed to liability under existing or new consumer data privacy legislation. For example, we are subject to the privacy provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and might be subject to similar provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related regulations. Even technical violations of these laws can result in penalties that are assessed for each non-compliant transaction. As part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, Congress passed the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HI-TECH Act. The HI-TECH Act expands the reach of data privacy and security requirements of HIPAA to service providers. HIPAA and associated United States Department of Health and Human Services regulations permit our customers in the healthcare industry to use certain demographic protected health information (such as name, email or physical address and dates of service) for fundraising purposes and to disclose that subset of protected health information to their service providers for fundraising. We may be included in this service provider group under the revised HIPAA regulations by virtue of our service provider relationship with our customers in the healthcare industry. In general, we seek to contractually prohibit our healthcare industry customers from using other types of health information of their clients for fundraising purposes that would be non-compliant with HIPAA, but we believe monitoring our healthcare customers' compliance with such prohibitions is not legally required of service providers and would be cost prohibitive. The law and regulations under HI-TECH are new and still subject to change or interpretation by legal authorities that could cause additional compliance burdens. If our customers or we were found to be subject to and in violation of any of these laws or other data privacy laws or regulations, our business could suffer and we and/or our customers would likely have to change our business practices. In addition, these laws and regulations could impose significant costs on our customers and us and make it more difficult for donors to make online donations. We are in the information technology business, and our products and services store, retrieve, manipulate and manage our customers information and data. The effectiveness of our software products relies on our customers storage and use of data concerning their donors, including financial, personally identifying and other sensitive data and our business uses similar systems that require us to store and use data with respect to our customers and personnel. Our collection and our customers collection and use of this data might raise privacy and security concerns and negatively impact our business or the demand for our products and services. If a breach of data security were to occur, our business may be materially and adversely impacted and products may be perceived as less desirable, which would negatively affect our business and operating results. Increasing government regulation could affect our business. We are subject to regulations applicable to businesses generally as well as laws and regulations directly applicable to electronic commerce and other regulations. State, federal and foreign governments may adopt new laws and regulations applicable to our business. Any such legislation or regulation could dampen the growth and decrease the acceptance of the Internet and online commerce. If such a decline occurs, companies may decide in the future not to use our products and services. Any new laws or regulations in the following areas, among others, could negatively affect our business: User privacy; Payment processing; The pricing and taxation of goods and services offered over the Internet; Taxation of foreign earnings; The content of websites; Copyrights; Consumer protection, including the potential application of do not call registry requirements on our customers and consumer backlash in general to direct marketing efforts of our customers; The online distribution of specific material or content over the Internet; and The characteristics and quality of products and services offered over the Internet. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Pending and enacted legislation at the state and federal levels, including those related to fundraising activities, may also restrict further our information gathering and disclosure practices, for example, by requiring us to comply with extensive and costly registration, reporting or disclosure requirements. Any substantial increase in government regulation affecting our business, or any failure to comply with existing regulations, could require substantial investments to achieve compliance, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. General economic factors, both domestically and internationally, might adversely affect our financial performance. General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, might adversely affect our financial performance. Weakness in the financial and housing markets, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, overall economic slowdowns and other economic factors could adversely affect donations to nonprofits, reducing their revenue and, therefore, possibly their demand for the products and services we sell and lengthen our sales and payment cycles. In addition, these adverse economic conditions could reduce charitable transactions executed through our payments platform, which would adversely affect our revenue and net income. Higher interest rates, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the United States could increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results. These factors affect not only our operations, but also the operations of suppliers from whom we purchase or license products and services, a factor that could result in an increase in the cost to us of our products and services, reducing our margins. These factors also affect our customers who may reduce their purchasing of our solutions due to adverse effects of certain economic factors. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. We depend on our principal executive offices and other facilities for the continued operation of our business. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events, including terrorist attacks, computer hacker attacks and natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could disrupt one or more of these facilities and adversely affect our operations. Our principal executive offices are located in a coastal region that has experienced hurricanes in the past. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies and typically have provisions in our commercial contracts that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments None. Item 2. Properties We lease our headquarters in Charleston, South Carolina which consists of approximately 220,000 square feet. The lease on our Charleston headquarters expires in October 2024, and we have the option for two 5-year renewal periods. We also lease additional office space in Charleston, South Carolina; Austin, Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana; Cambridge, Massachusetts; Washington D.C.; San Diego and Emeryville, California; Overland Park, Kansas; Lincoln, Nebraska; Miami, Florida; Bedford, New Hampshire; Edina, Minnesota; New York, New York; Almere, the Netherlands; Glasgow, Scotland; Dublin, Ireland; London, England; East Brisbane, Australia; and Sydney, Australia. We believe that our properties are in good operating condition and adequately serve our current business operations for all of our business segments. We also anticipate that suitable additional or alternative space, including those under lease options, will be available at commercially reasonable terms for future expansion. Item 3. Legal proceedings From time to time we may become involved in litigation relating to claims arising from our ordinary course of business. We do not believe that there are any claims or actions pending or threatened against us, the ultimate disposition of which would have a material adverse effect on us. Item 4. Mine safety disclosures Not applicable. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements PART II Item 5. Market for registration's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities Our common stock is trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (NASDAQ) under the symbol BLKB. The following table sets forth, for the quarterly reporting periods indicated, the high and low market prices for shares of our common stock, as reported by NASDAQ, and dividend per share information. Common Stock Market Prices High Low Dividends Declared Fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 Fourth quarter $ 45.86 $ 37.38 $ 0.12 Third quarter 40.99 33.62 0.12 Second quarter 36.33 29.42 0.12 First quarter 38.84 29.99 0.12 Fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 Fourth quarter $ 42.23 $ 33.88 $ 0.12 Third quarter 40.00 32.54 0.12 Second quarter 34.44 27.68 0.12 First quarter 30.84 22.85 0.12 As of February 12, 2015 , there were approximately 147 stockholders of record of our common stock. Because many of our shares of common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, this number is not representative of the total number of stockholders represented by these stockholders of record. On February 12, 2015 , the closing price of our common stock was $43.95 . 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Stock performance graph The following performance graph shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or filed or incorporated by reference in future filings with the SEC, or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. The performance graph compares the performance of our common stock to the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ Computer and Data Processing Index. The graph covers the most recent five-year period ending December 31, 2014 . The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and each index was $100.00 at December 31, 2009 , and that all dividends are reinvested. December 31, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Blackbaud, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 111.71 $ 121.73 $ 102.22 $ 171.14 $ 199.28 NASDAQ Composite Index 100.00 117.61 118.70 139.00 196.83 223.74 NASDAQ Computer & Data Processing Index 100.00 106.82 107.70 115.65 176.58 202.04 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Common stock acquisitions and repurchases The following table provides information about shares of common stock acquired or repurchased during the three months ended December 31, 2014 . All of these acquisitions were of common stock withheld by us to satisfy minimum tax obligations of employees due upon exercise of stock appreciation rights and vesting of restricted stock awards and units. The level of acquisition activity varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting as well as employee exercise decisions. Period Total number of shares acquired or purchased Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs (1) Approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plan or programs (in thousands) Beginning balance, October 1, 2014 $ 50,000 October 1, 2014 through October 31, 2014 $ 50,000 November 1, 2014 through November 30, 2014 134,030 44.85 50,000 December 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014 2,875 44.98 50,000 Total 136,905 $ 44.85 $ 50,000 (1) In August 2010, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program that authorized us to purchase up to $50.0 million of our outstanding shares of common stock. We have not made any repurchases under the program to date, and the program does not have an expiration date. Dividend policy and restrictions Our Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy which reflects an intention to distribute to our stockholders a portion of the cash generated by our business that exceeds our operating needs and capital expenditures as regular quarterly dividends. This policy reflects our judgment that we can provide greater value to our stockholders by distributing to them a portion of the cash generated by our business. In accordance with this dividend policy, we paid quarterly dividends at an annual rate of $0.48 per share in 2014 and 2013 , resulting in aggregate dividend payments to stockholders of $22.1 million in each of 2014 and 2013 . In February 2015 , our Board of Directors approved an annual dividend rate of $0.48 per share for 2015 . We declared a first quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on March 13, 2015 , to stockholders of record on February 27, 2015 , and currently intend to pay quarterly dividends at an annual rate of $0.48 per share of common stock for each of the remaining fiscal quarters in 2015 . Dividends at this rate would total approximately $22.6 million in the aggregate on our common stock in 2015 (assuming 47.0 million shares of common stock are outstanding, net of treasury stock). Dividends on our common stock will not be cumulative. Consequently, if dividends on our common stock are not declared and/or paid at the targeted level, our stockholders will not be entitled to receive such payments in the future. We are not obligated to pay dividends, and as described more fully below, our stockholders might not receive any dividends as a result of the following factors: Our credit facility limits the amount of dividends we are permitted to pay; Our Board of Directors could decide to reduce dividends or not to pay dividends at all, at any time and for any reason; The amount of dividends distributed is subject to state law restrictions; and We might not have enough cash to pay dividends due to changes to our operating earnings, working capital requirements and anticipated cash needs. Assumptions and considerations We estimate that the cash necessary to fund dividends on our common stock for 2015 at an annual rate of $0.48 per share is approximately $22.6 million (assuming 47.0 million shares of common stock are outstanding, net of treasury stock). 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have a stock repurchase program that authorizes us to purchase up to $50.0 million of our outstanding shares of common stock. The program does not have an expiration date. The shares could be purchased in a self-tender for our stock, from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon market conditions and other factors, all in accordance with the requirements of applicable law. Any open market purchases under the repurchase program will be made in compliance with Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and all other applicable securities regulations. We might not purchase any shares of common stock and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, at any time and for any reason, to cancel the stock repurchase program. We believe that our cash on hand and the cash flows we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements through 2015 , including dividends and purchases under our stock repurchase program. See Managements discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations Liquidity and capital resources in Item 7 in this report. If our assumptions as to operating expenses, working capital requirements and capital expenditures are too low or if unexpected cash needs arise that we are not able to fund with cash on hand or with borrowings under our credit facility, we would need to either reduce or eliminate dividends. If we were to use working capital or permanent borrowings to fund dividends, we would have less cash available for future dividends and other purposes, which could negatively impact our stock price, financial condition, results of operations and ability to maintain or expand our business. We have estimated our dividend only for 2015 , and we cannot assure our stockholders that during or following 2015 we will pay dividends at the estimated levels, or at all. We are not required to pay dividends and our Board of Directors may modify or revoke our dividend policy at any time. Dividend payments are within the absolute discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon many factors and future developments that could differ materially from our current expectations. Indeed, over time our capital and other cash needs, including unexpected cash needs, will invariably change and remain subject to uncertainties, which could impact the level of any dividends we pay in the future. We believe that our dividend policy could limit, but not preclude, our ability to pursue growth as we intend to retain sufficient cash after the distribution of dividends to permit the pursuit of growth opportunities. In order to pay dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy and to fund any substantial portion of our stock repurchase program, we expect that we could require financing or borrowings to fund any significant acquisitions or to pursue growth opportunities requiring capital expenditures significantly beyond our anticipated capital expenditure levels. Management will evaluate potential growth opportunities as they arise and, if our Board of Directors determines that it is in our best interest to use cash that would otherwise be available for distribution as dividends to pursue an acquisition opportunity, to materially increase capital spending or for some other purpose, the Board would be free to depart from or change our dividend policy at any time. Restrictions on payment of dividends Under Delaware law, we can only pay dividends either out of surplus (which is defined as total assets at fair market value minus total liabilities, minus statutory capital) or out of current or the immediately preceding years earnings. As of December 31, 2014 , we had $14.7 million in cash and cash equivalents. In addition, we anticipate that we will have sufficient earnings in 2015 to pay dividends at the level described above. Although we believe we will have sufficient surplus and earnings to pay dividends at the anticipated levels for 2015 , our Board of Directors will seek periodically to assure itself of this sufficiency before actually declaring any dividends. Under our credit facility, we also have restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends and our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock. In order to pay any cash dividends and/or repurchase shares of stock: (1) no default or event of default shall have occurred and be continuing under the credit facility, and (2) our pro forma net leverage ratio, as set forth in the credit agreement, must be 0.25 less than the net leverage ratio requirement at the time of dividend declaration or share repurchase. See Managements discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations Liquidity and capital resources in Item 7 in this report. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 6. Selected financial data The selected financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in Item 7 in this report and our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report to fully understand factors, including our business acquisitions and presentation of certain of our subscriptions revenues and costs on a gross basis effective October 2013, that may affect the comparability of the information presented below. The following data, insofar as it relates to each of the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , has been derived from the audited annual financial statements, including the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2014 and 2013 , and the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, cash flows and stockholders equity for the three years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 and notes thereto appearing elsewhere herein. The following data, insofar as it relates to each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 , and the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 are derived from audited financial statements not included in this report. Year ended December 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS Total revenue $ 564,421 $ 503,817 $ 447,419 $ 370,868 $ 326,565 Total cost of revenue 273,438 232,663 202,460 157,194 132,139 Gross profit 290,983 271,154 244,959 213,674 194,426 Total operating expenses 244,619 219,612 225,524 162,746 148,402 Income from operations 46,364 51,542 19,435 50,928 46,024 Net income 28,290 30,472 6,583 33,220 29,187 PER SHARE DATA Basic net income $ 0.63 $ 0.68 $ 0.15 $ 0.76 $ 0.68 Diluted net income 0.62 0.67 0.15 0.75 0.67 Cash dividends 0.48 0.48 0.48 0.48 0.44 BALANCE SHEET DATA Total assets $ 943,183 $ 706,610 $ 705,747 $ 392,590 $ 323,806 Deferred revenue, including current portion 221,274 190,574 185,018 163,437 150,661 Total debt, including current portion 280,571 152,908 215,500 Total long-term liabilities 336,263 188,384 246,368 12,547 9,319 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with Item 1A Risk factors and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements reflect our current view with respect to future events and financial performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those set forth under Item 1A. Risk factors and elsewhere in this report, that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results. Except as required by law, we do not intend, and undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. Executive summary We provide software and services for the nonprofit, charitable giving and education communities. Our offerings include a full spectrum of cloud-based and on-premise solutions, and related services for organizations of all sizes, including nonprofit fundraising and relationship management, marketing, advocacy, accounting, payments and analytics, as well as grant management, corporate social responsibility, education and other solutions. We continue to make investments in our product portfolio and go-to-market organization to ensure we are properly positioned to benefit from shifts in the market, including demand for our subscription-based offerings. As of December 31, 2014, we had more than 30,000 active customers including nonprofits, K12 private and higher education institutions, healthcare organizations, foundations and other charitable giving entities, and corporations. During 2014, we began executing on the following five growth and operational improvement strategies targeted to drive an extended period of quality enhancement, product and service innovation, and increasing operating efficiency and financial performance: 1. Accelerate organic revenue growth; 2. Accelerate our product portfolio's move to the cloud; 3. Expand our total addressable market; 4. Optimize our back-office infrastructure; and 5. Implement a 3-year margin improvement plan. We completed our acquisition of MicroEdge in October 2014 for an aggregate purchase price of $159.8 million in cash. MicroEdge is a leading provider of high-performance solutions that enable the worldwide giving community to organize, simplify and measure their acts of charitable giving. The acquisition of MicroEdge expands our offerings in the philanthropic giving sector with MicroEdges comprehensive technology solutions for grant-making, corporate social responsibility and foundation management. Additionally, we completed our acquisition of WhippleHill in June 2014 for an aggregate purchase price of $35.0 million in cash. WhippleHill is a leading provider of cloud-based solutions designed exclusively to serve K12 private schools. The acquisition of WhippleHill expanded our offerings in the K12 technology sector. We have included the results of operations of acquired companies in our consolidated results of operations from the date of their respective acquisition, which impacts the comparability of our results of operations when comparing 2014 to 2013 and 2012 . We have noted in the discussion below, to the extent meaningful, the impact on the comparability of our consolidated results of operations to prior year results due to the inclusion of acquired companies. We derive revenue from charging subscription fees for the use of our cloud-based solutions, selling perpetual licenses and providing a broad offering of services, including consulting, training, installation and implementation services, as well as ongoing customer support and maintenance. Furthermore, we derive revenue from providing hosting services, performing donor prospect research engagements, selling lists of potential donors, providing transaction and payment processing services, benchmarking studies and data modeling services. We have experienced growth in our payment processing services from the continued shift to online giving, further integration of these services into our existing product portfolio and the sale of these services to new and existing customers. 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) As a result of third-party contractual changes, certain of our subscriptions revenues and costs associated with our payment processing services are presented on a gross basis since October 2013, whereas comparable revenues and costs are presented on a net basis in the prior periods. As such, total revenue, total cost of revenue, subscriptions revenue and cost of subscriptions revenue for prior periods are not directly comparable, although gross profit, operating income and net income were unaffected by the prospective change. An analysis of our historical financial statements for the four quarters and year ended December 31, 2013 presented on a basis comparable to 2014 can be found at www.blackbaud.com/investorrelations , which is intended to assist with the evaluation of our performance in light of the change in presentation. Overall, revenue in 2014 increased $60.6 million or 12% when compared to 2013 . When removing the $21.1 million of incremental 2014 revenue attributable to the change in presentation referenced above and incremental revenue of $4.5 million and $5.8 million from WhippleHill and MicroEdge, respectively, revenue increased 6% during 2014 when compared to 2013. This increase was primarily the result of growth in recurring revenue, which includes subscriptions revenue and maintenance revenue. During 2014, we experienced an increase in demand for our cloud-based and hosted fundraising solutions as our business continues to shift towards providing predominantly subscription-based offerings. Subscriptions revenue also benefited from increases in the number of customers and volume of transactions for which we process payments, as well as variable transactions associated with the use of our solutions to fundraise online. The increase in maintenance revenue is attributable to maintaining high customer retention rates, new customer license agreements and increases in contracts with existing customers during 2014 when compared to 2013. Income from operations in 2014 decreased by $5.1 million or 10% when compared to 2013 . The decrease in income from operations was primarily attributable to $17.5 million of incremental investments we made during 2014 that were targeted to drive the success of our five growth and operational improvement strategies discussed above. Also contributing to the decrease in income from operations during 2014 compared to 2013 were increases in amortization of intangible assets arising from our acquisitions of WhippleHill and MicroEdge of $1.5 million , net acquisition-related expenses of $1.3 million and the impairment of capitalized software development costs of $1.6 million . These unfavorable impacts on income from operations were partially offset by the increases in subscriptions and maintenance revenue discussed above. At December 31, 2014 , our cash and cash equivalents were $14.7 million and outstanding borrowings under the 2014 Credit Facility were $282.4 million . During 2014 , we generated $102.3 million in cash flow from operations and raised net debt of $129.5 million . In 2014 we used net cash of $188.9 million for the acquisitions of WhippleHill and MicroEdge, returned $22.1 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had cash outlays of $22.4 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs. We plan to further increase our focus on subscription-based offerings and expand our payment processing and analytics services as we execute on our key growth initiatives and seek to strengthen our market leadership position, while achieving our targeted level of profitability. In the near term, we anticipate that there will continue to be an impact from our payment processing services on our overall gross and operating margins as growth in the volume of transactions where we provide payment processing services is expected to exceed the growth of certain other product and service offerings. We also plan to continue to invest in our product, sales and marketing organizations and our back-office processes as well as the infrastructure that supports our subscription-based offerings and certain product development initiatives to achieve optimal scalability of our operations as we execute on our key growth initiatives. 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Results of operations During 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , we acquired companies that provided us with strategic opportunities to expand our share of the philanthropic giving market through the integration of complementary products and services to serve the changing needs of our customers. The following are the companies we acquired and their respective acquisition date: MicroEdge Holdings, LLC (MicroEdge) October 1, 2014; WhippleHill Communications, Inc. (WhippleHill) June 16, 2014; MyCharity, Ltd. (MyCharity) March 6, 2013; and Convio, LLC (Convio) May 4, 2012; We have included the results of operations of acquired companies in our consolidated results of operations from the date of their respective acquisition, which impacts the comparability of our results of operations when comparing 2014 to 2013 and 2013 to 2012 . We have noted in the discussion below, to the extent meaningful, the impact on the comparability of our consolidated results of operations to prior year results due to the inclusion of acquired companies. Because we have integrated the Convio and MyCharity operations, it is impracticable to determine the operating costs attributable solely to these acquired businesses for 2014 and 2013. Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 Revenue by segment The table below compares revenue by segment for 2014 and 2013 . Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 Change % Change ECBU $ 219.9 (1)(2) $ 195.6 $ 24.3 12 % GMBU 254.7 (1)(3) 225.3 29.4 13 % IBU 46.5 (1) 41.5 5.0 12 % Target Analytics 41.8 39.8 2.0 5 % Other 1.6 1.6 % Total revenue (4) $ 564.4 $ 503.8 $ 60.7 12 % (1) Included in ECBU, GMBU and IBU revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $6.8 million, $13.2 million and $1.1 million, respectively, attributable to the prospective change in presentation from net to gross for revenue and costs associated with certain payment processing services as a result of certain third-party arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective October 2013. (2) Included in ECBU revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $5.8 million attributable to the inclusion of MicroEdge. (3) Included in GMBU revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $4.5 million attributable to the inclusion of WhippleHill. (4) The individual amounts for each segment may not sum to total revenue due to rounding. When removing the impact attributable to the change in revenue presentation and acquisitions of WhippleHill and MicroEdge noted above, the increases in revenue for ECBU, GMBU and IBU during 2014 when compared to 2013 were primarily attributable to growth in subscriptions revenue. The growth in subscriptions resulted from an increase in demand for our cloud-based and hosted fundraising offerings, increases in the number of customers and the volume of transactions for which we process payments, and an increase in usage-based transaction revenue. Also contributing to the growth in ECBU, GMBU and IBU revenue were increases in maintenance revenue primarily from new customer license agreements and increases in contracts with existing customers. The growth in Target Analytics revenue during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily the result of increased demand for our subscription-based analytic service offerings. 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Operating results Subscriptions Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 Change % Change Subscriptions revenue $ 263.4 (1)(2) $ 212.7 $ 50.7 24 % Cost of subscriptions 133.2 (1)(3) 93.7 39.5 42 % Subscriptions gross profit $ 130.2 $ 119.0 $ 11.2 9 % Subscriptions gross margin 49 % 56 % (1) Included in subscriptions revenue and cost of subscriptions for 2014 was $21.1 million attributable to the prospective change in presentation from net to gross for revenue and costs associated with certain payment processing services as a result of certain third-party arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective October 2013. (2) Included in subscriptions revenue for 2014 was $2.7 million and $3.0 million attributable to the inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge, respectively. (3) Included in cost of subscriptions for 2014 was $1.2 million attributable to the inclusion of WhippleHill. The impact on cost of subscriptions in 2014 as a result of the inclusion of MicroEdge was not significant. Subscriptions revenue is comprised of revenue from charging for the use of our subscription-based software products, which includes providing access to hosted applications and hosting services, access to certain data services and our online subscription training offerings, revenue from payment processing services as well as variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our products. We continue to experience growth in sales of our hosted applications and hosting services as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer subscription-based offerings. In addition, we have experienced growth in our payment processing services from the continued shift to online giving, further integration of these services to our existing product portfolio and the sale of these services to new and existing customers. Excluding the effects of the change in presentation associated with certain of our payment processing services and the inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge as discussed above, the increase in subscriptions revenue during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily due an increase in demand for our cloud-based solutions including Luminate CRM, Luminate Online and Altru and for our hosted fundraising solutions including Blackbaud CRM, the Raiser's Edge and the Financial Edge. Subscriptions revenue also grew as a result of increases in the number of customers and the volume of transactions for which we process payments, and an increase in usage-based transaction revenue. Cost of subscriptions is primarily comprised of human resource costs, hosting expenses, stock-based compensation expense, third-party royalty and data expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangibles from business combinations, transaction-based costs related to payments services, remittances of amounts due to third-parties under our payment processing services and other costs incurred in providing support and services to our customers. Excluding the effects of the change in presentation associated with certain of our payment processing services as discussed above, the increase in cost of subscriptions during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily due to an increase in human resource costs of $10.5 million, an increase in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.7 million, an increase in allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $3.3 million. Also contributing to the increase in cost of subscriptions during 2014 was an increase in transaction-based costs related to our payments services. The increase in human resource costs was primarily due to an increase in subscription customer support directly related to our growing base of subscription customers. The increase in allocated costs was primarily a result of investments made to support anticipated growth in our operations. The inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge also contributed to the increases in human resource costs and allocated costs. 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) The decrease in subscriptions gross margin during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily a result of the prospective change in presentation from net to gross revenues and costs as discussed above, which had no impact on gross profit. Absent this presentation change, subscriptions gross margin was 54% for 2014 compared to 56% in 2013. The remaining decrease in subscriptions gross margin for 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily due to increases in human resource costs and allocated costs outpacing the growth in subscriptions revenue as we expand headcount to support projected future subscriptions growth. In the near term, we anticipate that there will continue to be a negative impact from our payment processing services on our subscriptions gross margin as growth in the volume of transactions where we provide payment processing services is expected to exceed the growth of certain of our other subscription-based offerings. Maintenance Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 Change % Change Maintenance revenue $ 147.4 (1) $ 138.7 $ 8.7 6 % Cost of maintenance 25.5 (1) 25.7 (0.2 ) (1 )% Maintenance gross profit $ 121.9 $ 113.0 $ 8.9 8 % Maintenance gross margin 83 % 81 % (1) Included in maintenance revenue and cost of maintenance for 2014 was $1.9 million and $0.6 million, respectively, attributable to the inclusion of MicroEdge. Maintenance revenue is comprised of annual fees derived from maintenance contracts associated with new software licenses and annual renewals of existing maintenance contracts. These contracts provide customers with updates, enhancements and upgrades to our software products and online, telephone and email support. Maintenance contracts are typically for a term of one year. Approximately 95% of our license customers with maintenance contracts were retained in 2014. This retention rate did not vary materially compared to prior periods. Over time, we anticipate a decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our product portfolio to a subscription-based cloud delivery model and away from a perpetual license-based model. Excluding the impact of MicroEdge, as discussed above, the increase in maintenance revenue during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily comprised of (i) $10.4 million of incremental maintenance from new customer license agreements and increases in contracts with existing customers; and (ii) approximately $4.2 million of incremental maintenance from contractual inflationary rate adjustments; partially offset by (iii) a $7.4 million reduction in maintenance from contracts that were not renewed and reductions in contracts with existing customers. Cost of maintenance is primarily comprised of human resource costs, stock-based compensation expense, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty costs, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangibles from business combinations and other costs incurred in providing support and services to our customers. When removing the incremental costs attributable to MicroEdge discussed above, cost of maintenance during 2014 decreased when compared to 2013 primarily as a result of a decrease in human resource costs. Human resource costs decreased primarily due to an increase in allocated customer support costs towards subscriptions which is directly related to our growing base of subscription customers and is a trend that is likely to continue. Maintenance gross margin increased during 2014 when compared to 2013 primarily due to the incremental maintenance revenue from new customers associated with new license agreements and increases in contracts with existing customers combined with the decrease in human resource costs. 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Services Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 Change % Change Services revenue $ 128.4 (1) $ 126.5 $ 1.9 2 % Cost of services 106.5 (2) 104.0 2.5 2 % Services gross profit $ 21.9 $ 22.5 $ (0.6 ) (3 )% Services gross margin 17 % 18 % (1) Included in services revenue for 2014 was $1.6 million attributable to the inclusion of WhippleHill. The impact on services revenue in 2014 as result of the inclusion of MicroEdge was not significant. (2) Included in cost of services for 2014 was $2.5 million and $0.8 million attributable to the inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge, respectively. We derive services revenue from consulting, implementation, education, analytic and installation services. Consulting, implementation and installation services involve converting data from a customers existing system, system configuration, process re-engineering and assistance in file set up. Education services involve customer training activities. Analytic services are comprised of donor prospect research, sales of lists of potential donors, benchmarking studies and data modeling services. These analytic services involve the assessment of current and prospective donor information of the customer and are performed using our proprietary analytical tools. The end product is intended to enable organizations to more effectively target their fundraising activities. When removing the incremental services revenue attributable to WhippleHill discussed above, services revenue during 2014 remained relatively unchanged when compared to 2013. The continuing shift in our go-to-market strategy towards cloud-based subscription offerings, which, in general, require less implementation services than our traditional on-premise perpetual license arrangements has negatively impacted consulting services revenue growth. Cost of services is primarily comprised of human resource costs, stock-based compensation expense, third-party contractor expenses, classroom rentals, costs incurred in providing customer training, data expense incurred to perform analytic services, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangibles from business combinations. When removing the incremental cost of services related to WhippleHill and MicroEdge discussed above, cost of services remained relatively unchanged during 2014 when compared to 2013. When removing the impact of WhippleHill and MicroEdge discussed above, services gross margin remained relatively unchanged during 2014 when compared to 2013. 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) License fees Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 Change % Change License fees revenue $ 16.2 $ 16.7 $ (0.5 ) (3 )% Cost of license fees 1.8 2.8 (1.0 ) (36 )% License fees gross profit $ 14.4 $ 13.9 $ 0.5 4 % License fees gross margin 89 % 83 % We derive license fees revenue from the sale of our software products under perpetual license agreements. During 2014, revenue from license fees decreased primarily as a result of a continued shift in our customers buying preferences away from solutions offered under perpetual license arrangements towards subscription-based hosted applications. Cost of license fees is primarily comprised of third-party software royalties, variable reseller commissions, amortization of software development costs and amortization of intangibles from business combinations. The decrease in cost of license fees during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily due to a $0.6 million reduction in third-party software royalties as we sold fewer products with third-party software. Also contributing to the decrease in cost of license fees was a modest reduction in reseller commissions. The increase in license fees gross margin during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily due to less sales of products with third-party software royalties associated with them relative to the decrease in license fees revenue. Other revenue Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 Change % Change Other revenue $ 9.0 $ 9.2 $ (0.2 ) (2 )% Cost of other revenue 6.4 6.5 (0.1 ) (2 )% Other gross profit $ 2.6 $ 2.7 $ (0.1 ) (4 )% Other gross margin 29 % 29 % Other revenue includes the sale of business forms that are used in conjunction with our software products, reimbursement of travel-related expenses primarily incurred during the performance of services at customer locations, fees from user conferences and third-party software referral fees. Other revenue and cost of other revenue during 2014 when compared to 2013 remained relatively unchanged. 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Operating expenses Sales and marketing Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 Change % Change Sales and marketing expense $ 107.4 $ 97.6 $ 9.8 10 % % of revenue 19 % 19 % Sales and marketing expense includes human resource costs, stock-based compensation expense, travel-related expenses, sales commissions, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. Sales and marketing expense increased during 2014 when compared to 2013 primarily due to increases in human resource costs, commission expense and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $3.8 million, $2.2 million and $1.7 million, respectively. Human resource costs increased primarily due to incremental headcount to support the increase in sales and marketing efforts of our growing operations. Commission expense increased driven primarily by an increase in commissionable revenue during the 2014 when compared to 2013. Allocated costs increased primarily as a result of investments made to support anticipated growth in operations. Included in the overall increase in sales and marketing expense during 2014 compared to 2013 was more than $3.1 million related to our 2014 incremental operating investments targeted to accelerate organic revenue growth. The inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge also contributed to the increases in human resource costs and allocated costs. Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of revenue remained relatively unchanged during 2014 when compared to 2013. Research and development Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 Change % Change Research and development expense $ 77.2 $ 65.6 $ 11.6 18 % % of revenue 14 % 13 % Research and development expense includes human resource costs, stock-based compensation expense, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new products, upgrading and enhancing existing products, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. Research and development expense increased during 2014 when compared to 2013 primarily due to increases in human resource costs, third-party contractor costs and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $8.6 million, $4.2 million and $2.8 million, respectively. Partially offsetting these increases was a $5.1 million increase in the amount of software development costs that were capitalized from an increase in development activities that generate costs which qualify for capitalization as internal-use software. The inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge also contributed to the increases in human resource costs and allocated costs. Included in the overall increase in research and development expense during 2014 compared to 2013 was more than $6.1 million related to our 2014 incremental operating investments, which contributed to the increased third-party contractor costs, as we made investments to optimize our product portfolio including enhancements to existing products as well as new product innovation. Research and development expense as a percentage of revenue increased during 2014 when compared to 2013 primarily due to our 2014 incremental operating investments as discussed above. 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) General and administrative Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 Change % Change General and administrative expense $ 58.3 $ 50.3 $ 8.0 16 % % of revenue 10 % 10 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of human resource costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, stock-based compensation expense, third-party professional fees, insurance, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expense and other administrative expenses. General and administrative expense increased during 2014 when compared to 2013 primarily due to increases in human resource and facilities costs and acquisition-related costs of $9.1 million, $4.5 million, and $1.3 million, respectively. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in third-party contractor fees and other corporate costs of $1.3 million and $6.9 million. Human resource costs increased primarily due to additional resources needed to support the growth of our business and the inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge. The increases in facilities and acquisition-related expenses were due to our acquisitions of WhippleHill and MicroEdge. The decrease in third-party contractor fees was primarily attributable to one-time costs incurred during 2013 for the implementation of certain back-office systems as well as our CEO search. Included in the overall increase in general and administrative expense during 2014 compared to 2013 was more than $0.7 million related to our 2014 incremental operating investments targeted to optimize our back-office infrastructure. General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue remained relatively unchanged during 2014 when compared to 2013. Non-GAAP financial measures The operating results analyzed below are presented on a non-GAAP basis. We use non-GAAP revenue, non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin internally in analyzing our operational performance. Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, in evaluating our ongoing operational performance. While we believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information, non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies. We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue for a certain period of time until the related obligations to provide services are fulfilled. Therefore, our GAAP revenue after the acquisitions will not reflect the full amount of revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value. The non-GAAP measures described below reverse the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-downs so that the full amount of revenue booked by the acquired companies is included, which we believe provides a more accurate representation of a revenue run-rate in a given period. 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin discussed below exclude the impact of (i) write-downs of acquisition-related deferred revenue; (ii) stock-based compensation expense; (iii) amortization of intangibles from business combinations; (iv) impairment of capitalized software development costs; (v) acquisition-related integration costs; (vi) acquisition-related expenses; (vii) CEO transition costs; (viii) restructuring costs; and (ix) employee severance, because we believe they are not directly related to our operating performance in any particular period, but are for our long-term benefit over multiple periods. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business. Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 Change % Change GAAP revenue $ 564.4 $ 503.8 $ 60.6 12 % Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Acquisition-related deferred revenue write-down 6.3 1.1 5.2 473 % Non-GAAP revenue $ 570.7 $ 504.9 $ 65.8 13 % GAAP income from operations $ 46.4 $ 51.5 $ (5.1 ) (10 )% GAAP operating margin 8 % 10 % Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Acquisition-related deferred revenue write-down 6.3 1.1 5.2 473 % Add: Stock-based compensation expense 17.3 16.9 0.4 2 % Add: Amortization of intangibles from business combinations 26.1 24.6 1.5 6 % Add: Impairment of capitalized software development costs 1.6 1.6 100 % Add: Acquisition-related integration costs 0.8 1.8 (1.0 ) (56 )% Add: Acquisition-related expenses 2.3 2.3 100 % Add: CEO transition costs 0.9 1.3 (0.4 ) (31 )% Add: Restructuring costs 3.5 (3.5 ) (100 )% Add: Employee severance 0.6 (0.6 ) (100 )% Total Non-GAAP adjustments 55.3 49.8 5.5 11 % Non-GAAP income from operations $ 101.7 $ 101.3 $ 0.4 % Non-GAAP operating margin 18 % 20 % The modest increase in non-GAAP income from operations and the decrease in non-GAAP operating margin during 2014 when compared to 2013 were primarily due to the 2014 incremental operating investments targeted to drive the success of our five growth and operational improvement strategies - accelerating organic revenue growth, accelerating our product portfolio's move to the cloud, expanding our total addressable market, optimizing our back-office infrastructure and implementing a three-year margin improvement plan. Also contributing to the decrease in non-GAAP operating margin during 2014 was a prospective change from net to gross presentation for revenue and costs associated with our payment processing services as a result of certain third-party arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective October 2013. While this change in presentation affected our non-GAAP operating margin by approximately 1% percent during 2014, the dollar amount of non-GAAP income from operations was unaffected. Restructuring Restructuring costs consist primarily of severance and termination benefits associated with the realignment of our workforce in response to changes in the nonprofit industry and global economy, as well as the transition of most of our San Diego, California operations to our Austin, Texas location. We incurred $3.2 million in before-tax restructuring charges related to the realignment of our workforce during 2013. The amount we incurred in before-tax restructuring charges related to our San Diego office transition during 2013 was insignificant. 43 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Interest expense Interest expense remained relatively unchanged when comparing 2014 to 2013 . Our interest expense is directly related to the borrowings we incurred to fund our acquisitions of Convio, WhippleHill and MicroEdge. We expect interest expense to increase in 2015 as we experience a full-year of debt service on our increased borrowings in 2014. Deferred revenue The table below compares the components of deferred revenue from our consolidated balance sheets: (in millions, except percentages) Timing of recognition December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Change % Change Maintenance Over the term of the agreement, generally one year $ 92.8 $ 85.2 $ 7.6 9 % Subscriptions Over the term of the agreement, generally one to three years 98.2 72.5 25.7 35 % Services As services are delivered 29.5 32.2 (2.7 ) (8 )% License fees and other Upon delivery of the product or service 0.8 0.7 0.1 14 % Total deferred revenue 221.3 190.6 30.7 16 % Less: Long-term portion 9.0 9.1 (0.1 ) (1 )% Current portion $ 212.3 $ 181.5 $ 30.8 17 % To the extent that our customers are billed for our products and services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue. We generally invoice our maintenance and subscription customers in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of the contract term. Deferred revenue attributable to maintenance increased during 2014 primarily as a result of the inclusion of MicroEdge. Deferred revenue attributable to subscriptions increased during 2014 primarily as a result of the inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge and an increase in new sale and renewal billings of our subscription-based products. The decrease in deferred revenue from services during 2014 was primarily due to a decrease in consulting arrangements with upfront billing, partially offset by the inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge. The continuing shift in our go-to-market strategy towards subscription-based and cloud-based offerings, which, in general, require less implementation services than our traditional on-premise perpetual license arrangements has negatively impacted consulting services revenue growth. Deferred revenue from license fees and other remained relatively unchanged when comparing 2014 and 2013. Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 Revenue by segment The table below compares revenue by segment for 2013 and 2012 . Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2013 2012 Change % Change ECBU $ 195.6 $ 165.1 $ 30.5 18 % GMBU 225.3 203.2 22.1 11 % IBU 41.5 40.1 1.4 3 % Target Analytics 39.8 37.5 2.3 6 % Other 1.6 1.5 0.1 7 % Total revenue $ 503.8 $ 447.4 $ 56.4 13 % The increases in revenue for ECBU and GMBU during 2013 when compared to 2012 were primarily attributable to growth in subscriptions revenue as a result of the inclusion of Luminate Online, previously a Convio product, and an increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments. Also contributing to the growth in ECBU revenue were increases in revenue from consulting services and our Blackbaud CRM hosting services. Also contributing to the growth in GMBU revenue 44 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) was the continued increase in demand for our online and hosted solutions as our business shifts towards subscription-based offerings. IBU revenue increased during 2013 when compared to 2012 primarily due to incremental subscriptions revenue. The growth in IBU subscriptions revenue was primarily attributable to an increase in variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our products to fundraise online. Also contributing to the increase in IBU subscriptions revenue was an increase in demand for our online and hosted fundraising solutions including Everyday Hero, the Raiser's Edge and eTapestry. Target Analytics revenue growth during 2013 when compared to 2012 was primarily the result of an increase in demand for our prospect research offerings. Also contributing to the increase in Target Analytics revenue was growth in our performance management and data enrichment portfolios, driven by improved sales execution. Included in ECBU, GMBU and IBU revenue for 2013 is $3.3 million, $5.0 million and $0.2 million, respectively, attributable to a prospective change in presentation from net to gross for revenue and costs associated with our payment processing services as a result of certain third-party arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective October 2013. Operating results Subscriptions Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2013 2012 Change % Change Subscriptions revenue $ 212.7 $ 162.1 $ 50.6 31 % Cost of subscriptions 93.7 68.8 24.9 36 % Subscriptions gross profit $ 119.0 $ 93.3 $ 25.7 28 % Subscriptions gross margin 56 % 58 % The increase in subscriptions revenue was primarily attributable to the inclusion of Convio for the full year in 2013 compared to only eight months in 2012, and an increase in demand for our online fundraising offerings. Also contributing to the growth in subscriptions revenue was an increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments as well as an $8.5 million increase attributable to a prospective change in presentation from net to gross for revenues and costs associated with certain of our payment processing services effective October 2013. The increase in cost of subscriptions during 2013 when compared to 2012 was primarily attributable to increases in amortization of intangibles from business combinations, hosting costs, human resource costs and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. The increase also included $8.5 million of costs attributable to a prospective change in presentation from net to gross for revenues and costs associated with certain of our payment processing services effective October 2013. Amortization of intangibles from business combinations increased by $6.6 million during 2013 when compared to 2012 primarily due to the acquisition of Convio and the inclusion of a full year of intangibles amortization in 2013 compared to only eight months in 2012. Hosting costs, human resource costs and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs increased by $3.2 million, $3.1 million and $2.8 million, respectively, during 2013 when compared to 2012. These increases were primarily a result of the inclusion of Convio and investments made to support anticipated growth in our subscription-based offerings. Subscriptions gross margin decreased during 2013 when compared to 2012 primarily as a result of the cost increase from the prospective change in presentation from net to gross revenues and costs as discussed above and non-cash amortization of intangible assets purchased. Excluding the effect of the change in presentation, gross margin was relatively unchanged from 2012. 45 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Maintenance Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2013 2012 Change % Change Maintenance revenue $ 138.7 $ 136.1 $ 2.6 2 % Cost of maintenance 25.7 26.0 (0.3 ) (1 )% Maintenance gross profit $ 113.0 $ 110.1 $ 2.9 3 % Maintenance gross margin 81 % 81 % The increase in maintenance revenue during 2013 when compared to 2012 was primarily comprised of (i) $10.9 million of incremental maintenance from new customer license agreements and increases in contracts with existing customers; and (ii) approximately $4.2 million of incremental maintenance from contract inflationary rate adjustments; partially offset by (iii) a $8.4 million reduction in maintenance from contracts that were not renewed and reductions in contracts with existing customers; and (iv) $3.3 million decrease in maintenance revenue attributable to a prospective change in presentation from gross to net for revenue and costs associated with certain third-party software arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective January 2013. The net revenue attributable to these third-party software arrangements has been included in "Other revenue" for 2013. Cost of maintenance decreased during 2013 when compared to 2012 primarily due to a decrease in proprietary software costs, partially offset by increases in human resource costs and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. The decrease in proprietary software costs was primarily attributable to a prospective change in presentation from gross to net for revenue and costs associated with certain third-party software arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective January 2013. The increase in human resource costs was primarily due to merit-based salary increases and an increase in employee health care costs. Maintenance gross margin in 2013 remained relatively unchanged when compared 2012. Services Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2013 2012 Change % Change Services revenue $ 126.5 $ 119.6 $ 6.9 6 % Cost of services 104.0 97.2 6.8 7 % Services gross profit $ 22.5 $ 22.4 $ 0.1 % Services gross margin 18 % 19 % The increase in services revenue during 2013 when compared to 2012 was attributable to increases in consulting, education and analytic services revenue of $4.1 million, $1.8 million and $1.0 million, respectively. Consulting services revenue increased primarily due to the inclusion of Convio for the full year in 2013 compared to only eight months in 2012. The volume of education services revenue increased due to higher demand for our subscription-based training. Analytic services revenue increased primarily due to an increase in demand for our prospect research offerings. Also contributing to the increase in analytic services revenue was growth in our performance management and data enrichment portfolios, driven by improved sales execution. The increase in cost of services during 2013 when compared to 2012 was primarily attributable to increases in human resource costs, the recognition of deferred implementation service costs and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. Human resource costs increased $3.8 million primarily as a result of increases in accrued bonus costs, merit-based salary increases and employee health care costs. Our recognition of implementation service costs increased $2.2 million during 2013 when compared to 2012 due to a decrease in the amount of costs that are being deferred in connection with our shift from traditional license and related service arrangements to subscription offerings. Allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs increased $0.8 million due to the inclusion of allocable costs from the Convio operations as well as investments we have made in our infrastructure to make our operations more scalable. 46 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Services gross margin decreased in 2013 when compared to 2012 primarily due to increases in human resource costs and allocated costs outpacing the growth of services revenue. Also contributing to the decrease in services gross margin was the inclusion of Convio's service offerings for a full year in 2013, which have historically yielded lower gross margins. Since our acquisition of Convio in May 2012, we have made significant progress integrating operations and realizing gross margin synergies from the combination. However, the impact on services gross margin is obscured by the inclusion of Convio operating results for the full year in 2013 compared to only eight months in 2012. License fees Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2013 2012 Change % Change License fees revenue $ 16.7 $ 20.6 $ (3.9 ) (19 )% Cost of license fees 2.8 3.0 (0.2 ) (7 )% License fees gross profit $ 13.9 $ 17.6 $ (3.7 ) (21 )% License fees gross margin 83 % 85 % During 2013, revenue from license fees decreased primarily as a result of smaller contributions of revenue from our Raiser's Edge and Financial Edge offerings when compared to 2012. In addition, we continue to meet the demand of our emerging and mid-sized customers that increasingly prefer subscription-based hosted applications instead of solutions offered under traditional on-premise perpetual license arrangements. Also contributing to the decreases in revenue from license fees was a prospective change in presentation from gross to net for revenue and costs associated with certain third-party software arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective January 2013. The net revenue attributable to these third-party software arrangements has been included in "Other revenue" for 2013. The decrease in cost of license fees during 2013 when compared to 2012 was primarily due to a decrease in third-party software royalties resulting from a prospective change in presentation from gross to net for revenue and costs associated with certain third-party software arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective January 2013. The decrease in license fees gross margin during 2013 when compared to 2012 was primarily due to the decrease in license fees revenue combined with more sales of products that have third-party software royalty costs associated with them. Other revenue Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2013 2012 Change % Change Other revenue $ 9.2 $ 9.0 $ 0.2 2 % Cost of other revenue 6.5 7.5 (1.0 ) (13 )% Other gross profit $ 2.7 $ 1.5 $ 1.2 80 % Other gross margin 29 % 17 % Other revenue increased during 2013 when compared to 2012 primarily due to a $1.5 million increase in third-party software referral revenue upon the prospective change in presentation from gross to net for revenue and costs associated with certain third-party software arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective January 2013. During 2012, revenue from these arrangements was recorded on a gross basis to license fees, subscription and maintenance. The increase in third-party software referral fees during 2013 when compared to 2012 was partially offset by a decrease in revenue from reimbursement of travel-related expenses associated with services revenue. Cost of other revenue decreased during 2013 when compared to 2012 primarily due to fewer reimbursable expenses related to services provided at customer locations. Other revenue gross margin increased in 2013 when compared to 2012 primarily due to an increase in third-party software referral fees attributable to the prospective change in presentation from gross to net for revenue and costs associated with certain third-party software arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective January 2013. 47 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Operating expenses Sales and marketing Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2013 2012 Change % Change Sales and marketing expense $ 97.6 $ 95.2 $ 2.4 3 % % of revenue 19 % 21 % Sales and marketing expense increased during 2013 when compared to 2012 primarily due to a $1.1 million increase in sales commissions, a $0.9 million increase in allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and a $0.8 million increase in human resource costs. The increase in sales commissions is primarily due to an increased amount of commissionable revenue from 2012 to 2013. The increase in allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs resulted from both the inclusion of allocable costs from the Convio operations as well as investments we have made in our infrastructure to make our operations more scalable. The increase in human resource costs was primarily due to increases in employee health care costs and accrued bonus costs, partially offset by a reduction in headcount in connection with the realignment of our workforce, which began in January 2013. Since the acquisition of Convio in May 2012, we made significant progress integrating operations and realizing cost synergies from the combination, which is reflected in the improvements in sales and marketing expense as a percentage of revenue for 2012 to 2013. Research and development Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2013 2012 Change % Change Research and development expense $ 65.6 $ 64.7 $ 0.9 1 % % of revenue 13 % 14 % Research and development expense increased during 2013 when compared to 2012 primarily due to a $1.5 million increase in human resource costs and a $1.7 million increase in allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, partially offset by a $2.0 million increase in the amount of software development costs that were capitalized. Human resource costs increased primarily due to the inclusion of additional headcount from Convio. The increase in allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs resulted from both the inclusion of allocable costs from the Convio operations as well as investments we have made in our infrastructure to make our operations more scalable. After the acquisition of Convio in May 2012, we made significant progress integrating operations and realizing cost synergies from the combination, which is reflected in the improvement in research and development expense as a percentage of revenue from 2012 to 2013. 48 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) General and administrative Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2013 2012 Change % Change General and administrative expense $ 50.3 $ 63.1 $ (12.8 ) (20 )% % of revenue 10 % 14 % General and administrative expense decreased during 2013 when compared to 2012 primarily due to decreases in acquisition-related costs and stock-based compensation as well as an increase in the amount of costs allocated out of general and administrative expense including depreciation, IT support costs and certain facilities costs. These reductions in general and administrative expense were partially offset by increases in facilities costs, human resource costs and costs associated with the replacement of our CEO. Acquisition-related costs associated with our acquisition of Convio decreased $13.1 million during 2013 when compared to 2012. Stock-based compensation decreased $2.2 million during 2013 when compared to 2012 primarily due to the departure of employees in connection with the realignment of our workforce, which began in January 2013, and the departure of certain executive officers, including our CEO, during 2013. Business costs allocated out of general and administrative expense increased $5.6 million during 2013 when compared to 2012 primarily due to the inclusion of Convio's operations for the full year in 2013 compared to only eight months in 2012. Facilities costs increased by $3.9 million primarily due to the inclusion of Convio's operations for the full year in 2013 compared to only eight months in 2012. Human resource costs increased $3.3 million during 2013 when compared to 2012 primarily due to additional resources needed to support the growth of our business. We also incurred $2.4 million of incremental costs during 2013 when compared to 2012 associated with severance provided to our former CEO and search costs for our new CEO. Non-GAAP financial measures The operating results analyzed below are presented on a non-GAAP basis. We use non-GAAP revenue, non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin internally in analyzing our operational performance. Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, in evaluating our ongoing operational performance. While we believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information, non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies. 49 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin discussed below exclude the impact of (i) the write-down of Convio's deferred revenue balance; (ii) stock-based compensation expense; (iii) amortization of intangibles from business combinations; (iv) acquisition integration costs; (v) restructuring costs; (vi) CEO severance costs; (vii) employee severance costs; (viii) acquisition-related expenses; (ix) a write-off of proprietary software licenses; and (x) the impairment of a cost method investment, because we believe they are not directly related to our operating performance in any particular period, but are for our long-term benefit over multiple periods. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business. Year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2013 2012 Change % Change GAAP revenue $ 503.8 $ 447.4 $ 56.4 13 % Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Acquisition-related deferred revenue write-down 1.1 5.6 (4.5 ) (80 )% Non-GAAP revenue $ 504.9 $ 453.0 $ 51.9 11 % GAAP income from operations $ 51.5 $ 19.4 $ 32.1 165 % GAAP operating margin 10 % 4 % Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Acquisition-related deferred revenue write-down 1.1 5.6 (4.5 ) (80 )% Add: Stock-based compensation expense 16.9 19.2 (2.3 ) (12 )% Add: Amortization of intangibles from business combinations 24.6 17.4 7.2 41 % Add: Acquisition-related integration costs 1.8 6.7 (4.9 ) (73 )% Add: Restructuring costs 3.5 0.2 3.3 1,650 % Add: CEO severance 1.3 1.3 100 % Add: Employee severance 0.6 0.6 100 % Add: Acquisition-related expenses 6.4 (6.4 ) (100 )% Add: Write-off of prepaid proprietary software licenses 0.4 (0.4 ) (100 )% Add: Impairment of cost method investment 0.2 (0.2 ) (100 )% Total Non-GAAP adjustments 49.8 56.1 (6.3 ) (11 )% Non-GAAP income from operations $ 101.3 $ 75.5 $ 25.8 34 % Non-GAAP operating margin 20 % 17 % The increase in non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin during 2013 when compared to 2012 was primarily due to (i) the inclusion of Convio's subscription-based offerings which have historically yielded higher gross margins than our historical subscription-based offerings; (ii) an increase in demand for our online fundraising offerings and our payment processing services, which have also historically yielded higher gross margins than our other offerings; and (iii) cost synergies realized from our improved operational efficiencies as we integrated the Convio operations. Restructuring Restructuring costs consist primarily of severance and termination benefits associated with the realignment of our workforce in response to changes in the nonprofit industry and global economy, as well as the transition of most of our San Diego, California operations to our Austin, Texas location. We incurred $3.2 million in before-tax restructuring charges related to the realignment of our workforce during 2013. The amounts we incurred in before-tax restructuring charges related to our San Diego office transition during 2013 and 2012 were insignificant. Interest expense Interest expense remained relatively unchanged during 2013 when compared to 2012. Our interest expense is directly related to the borrowings we incurred to fund our acquisition of Convio in May 2012. 50 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Income tax provision The following is our effective tax rate for the years ended December 31: 2014 2013 2012 Effective tax rate 27.9 % 32.8 % 50.6 % The decrease in the effective tax rate during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily due to a benefit of $1.6 million from statute of limitations expiration and a benefit of $0.7 million from a reduction in the state income tax effective rate in the U.S. The decrease was partially offset by a discrete tax benefit for 2012 research and development tax credits recorded in 2013 of $1.9 million. The decrease in the effective tax rate during 2013 when compared to 2012 was primarily due to an increase in the benefit from research and development credits and a decrease in nondeductible acquisition costs, partially offset by an increase in nondeductible compensation of certain executive officers and an increase in pretax income. The U.S. federal research and development credits, which had previously expired on December 31, 2011, were reinstated as part of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 enacted in January 2013. This legislation retroactively reinstated and extended the credits from the previous expiration date through December 31, 2013. The 2014 research and development credits were reinstated in December 2014 as part of the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014. Our effective income tax rate may fluctuate quarterly as a result of factors, including transactions entered into, changes in the geographic distribution of our earnings or losses, our assessment of certain tax contingencies, valuation allowances, and changes in tax law in jurisdictions where we conduct business. We have deferred tax assets for federal, state, and international net operating loss carryforwards and state tax credits. The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards are subject to various Internal Revenue Code limitations and applicable state tax laws. A portion of the foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards and a portion of the state tax credits have a valuation reserve due to the uncertainty of realizing such carryforwards and credits in the future. We file income tax returns in the U.S. for federal and various state jurisdictions as well as in foreign jurisdictions including Canada, United Kingdom, Australia, the Netherlands and Ireland. We are generally subject to U.S. federal income tax examination for calendar tax years ending 2011 through 2014, as well as state and foreign income tax examinations for various years depending on statute of limitations of those jurisdictions. We have taken federal and state tax positions for which it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits may decrease within the next twelve months. The possible decrease could result from the expiration of statutes of limitations. The reasonably possible decrease at December 31, 2014 was insignificant. Seasonality Our revenues normally fluctuate as a result of certain seasonal variations in our business. Our revenue from professional services has historically been lower in the first quarter when many of those services commence and in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. In addition, our transaction revenue has historically been at its lowest in the first quarter due to the timing of customer fundraising initiatives and events. As a result of these and other factors, our total revenue has historically been lower in the first quarter than in the remainder of our fiscal year, with the third and fourth quarters historically achieving the highest total revenues. Our revenue from payment processing services has also historically increased during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving. Our expenses, however, do not vary significantly as a result of these factors, but do fluctuate on a quarterly basis due to varying timing of expenditures. Our cash flow from operations normally fluctuates quarterly due to the combination of the timing of customer contract renewals, delivery of professional services and occurrence of customer events, as well as the payment of bonuses, among other factors. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter, and due to the timing of client budget cycles, our cash flow from operations has been lower in our second quarter as compared to our third and fourth quarters. In addition, deferred revenues can vary on a seasonal basis for the same reasons. These patterns may change, however, as a result of the continued shift to online giving, growth in volume of transactions for which we process payments, acquisitions, new market opportunities, new product introductions or other factors. 51 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Liquidity and capital resources At December 31, 2014 , cash and cash equivalents totaled $14.7 million , compared to $11.9 million at December 31, 2013 . The increase in cash and cash equivalents during 2014 was principally attributable to cash generated from operations of $102.3 million , a net increase in debt of $129.5 million , partially offset by the use of net cash of $188.9 million for the acquisitions of WhippleHill and MicroEdge, the payment of dividends of $22.1 million and cash outlays for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs totaling $22.4 million . Our principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flow, funds available under the 2014 Credit Facility and cash on hand. Our operating cash flow depends on continued customer renewal of our subscription, maintenance and support agreements and market acceptance of our products and services. Based on current estimates of revenue and expenses, we believe that the currently available sources of funds and anticipated cash flows from operations will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to finance our operations, fund anticipated capital expenditures, meet our debt obligations and pay dividends. Dividend payments are not guaranteed and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, at any time and for any reason, not to declare or pay further dividends and/or repurchase our common stock. During 2015, we expect capital expenditures between $24.0 and $26.0 million, which includes purchases of property and equipment and estimated capitalized software development costs. Refer to the commitments and contingencies subsection below for future minimum commitments related to purchase obligations. We have drawn on our credit facility from time to time to help us meet financial needs, such as business acquisitions and purchases of common stock under our repurchase program. At December 31, 2014 , our available borrowing capacity under the 2014 Credit Facility was $136.9 million . We believe the 2014 Credit Facility will provide us with sufficient flexibility to meet our future financial needs. The credit facility matures in February 2019. At December 31, 2014 , the carrying amount of our debt under the 2014 Credit Facility was $280.6 million . Our average daily borrowings were $200.0 million during 2014 . Following is a summary of the financial covenants under the 2014 Credit Facility: Financial covenant Requirement As of December 31, 2014 Net Leverage Ratio 3.50 to 1.00 2.20 to 1.00 Interest Coverage Ratio 2.50 to 1.00 16.57 to 1.00 Under the 2014 Credit Facility, we also have restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends and our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock. In order to pay any cash dividends and/or repurchase shares of stock: (1) no default or event of default shall have occurred and be continuing under the 2014 Credit Facility, and (2) our pro forma net leverage ratio, as set forth in the credit agreement, must be 0.25 less than the net leverage ratio requirement at the time of dividend declaration or share repurchase. At December 31, 2014 , we were in compliance with all debt covenants under the 2014 Credit Facility. At December 31, 2014 , our total cash and cash equivalents balance includes approximately $8.8 million of cash that was held by operations outside the U.S. While these funds may not be needed to fund our U.S. operations for at least the next 12 months, if we need these funds, we may be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate the funds. Our current plans anticipate repatriating undistributed earnings in Canada. We currently do not intend nor anticipate a need to repatriate our other cash held outside the U.S. MicroEdge acquisition We financed the acquisition of MicroEdge through cash on hand and borrowings under the 2014 Credit Facility. As previously disclosed, in February 2014, we entered into the 2014 Credit Facility in an aggregate principal amount of $325 million, with a right to increase the revolving commitments and/or request additional term loans in a principal amount of up to $200 million. On October 1, 2014, we exercised our right, and certain lenders agreed, to increase the revolving credit commitments by $100 million such that as of October 1, 2014, the aggregate revolving credit commitments are $250 million. The additional revolving credit commitments have the same terms as the existing revolving credit commitments. On October 1, 2014, we drew down $140 million in revolving credit commitments under the 2014 Credit Facility to finance the acquisition of MicroEdge. 52 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Entry into interest rate swap agreements In March 2014, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement (the March 2014 Swap Agreement), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under the 2014 Credit Facility to a fixed rate for the term of the swap agreement. The initial notional value of the March 2014 Swap Agreement was $125.0 million with an effective date beginning in March 2014. In March 2017, the notional value of the March 2014 Swap Agreement will decrease to $75.0 million for the remaining term through February 2018. We designated the March 2014 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract. In October 2014, we entered into an additional interest rate swap agreement (the October 2014 Swap Agreement), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under the 2014 Credit Facility to a fixed rate for the term of the swap agreement. The initial notional value of the October 2014 Swap Agreement was $75.0 million with an effective date beginning in October 2014. In September 2015, the notional value of the October 2014 Swap Agreement will decrease to $50.0 million for the remaining term through June 2016. We designated the October 2014 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract. Operating cash flow Net cash provided by operating activities of $102.3 million decreased by $5.0 million during 2014 when compared to the prior year, primarily due to a decrease in earnings as adjusted for non-cash transactions, partially offset by an increase in cash flow from operations associated with working capital. Throughout both 2014 and 2013 , our cash flows from operations were derived principally from: (i) our earnings from on-going operations prior to non-cash expenses such as depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation and adjustments to our provision for sales returns and allowances; (ii) the tax benefit associated with our deferred tax assets, which reduces our cash outlay for income tax expense; and (iii) changes in our working capital. Working capital changes as they impact the statement of cash flows are composed of changes in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities and deferred revenue. Cash flow from operations associated with working capital increased $10.3 million in 2014 when compared to 2013 . The net working capital increase was primarily due to: a change in the timing of payouts for certain bonus plans, from quarterly to annually; increases in deferred revenue from growth in subscriptions; increases in accrued commissions and salaries; and fluctuations in the timing of vendor payments; which were partially offset by an increase in prepaid taxes; and increases in accounts receivable from growth in subscriptions. Investing cash flow During 2014 , we used net cash of $188.9 million for the acquisitions of WhippleHill and MicroEdge compared to $0.9 million spent on investments in acquired companies during 2013 . Aggregate cash outlays for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs were $22.4 million during 2014 , which was relatively unchanged from 2013. During 2012, we used approximately $280.7 million for the acquisition of Convio. Outside of this acquisition, cash used in investing activities was relatively unchanged when comparing 2013 and 2012. Financing cash flow During 2014 , we had a net increase in debt of $129.5 million , which was primarily used to finance the acquisition of MicroEdge, and we received a tax benefit of $7.5 million from the exercise of stock-based compensation awards. Cash outlays related to deferred financing costs increased $3.0 million during 2014 when compared to 2013 as a result of refinancing our credit facility. Also during 2014 , we paid dividends of $22.1 million , which was relatively consistent with the amounts paid in 2013 and 2012 . 53 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) During 2013, we had a net reduction in debt of $62.6 million primarily from payments made on outstanding borrowings compared to a net increase in debt of $215.5 million primarily used to fund the acquisition of Convio during 2012. Commitments and contingencies As of December 31, 2014 , we had future minimum commitments as follows: Payments due by period (in millions) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Operating leases (1) $ 96.5 $ 13.2 $ 24.3 $ 23.2 $ 35.8 Debt and interest (2) 301.9 10.0 18.3 273.6 Purchase obligations (3) 13.0 8.0 5.0 Total $ 411.4 $ 31.2 $ 47.6 $ 296.8 $ 35.8 (1) Our commitments related to operating leases have not been reduced by incentive payments and reimbursement of leasehold improvements. (2) Included in the table above is $19.5 million of interest. The actual interest expense recognized in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income will depend on the amount of debt, the length of time the debt is outstanding and the interest rate, which could be different from our assumptions used in the above table, which include: (i) that the amounts outstanding under the 2014 Credit Facility at December 31, 2014 will remain outstanding until maturity, with minimum payments occurring as currently scheduled, and (ii) that there are no assumed future borrowings on the 2014 Revolving Facility for the purposes of determining minimum commitment amounts. (3) We utilize third-party technology in conjunction with our products and services, with contractual arrangements varying in length from one to three years. In certain cases, these arrangements require a minimum annual purchase commitment by us. The term loans under the 2014 Credit Facility require periodic principal payments. The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2014 Credit Facility in February 2019. The total liability for uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , was $3.6 million and $3.7 million , respectively. Our accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was insignificant as of December 31, 2014 and $0.6 million as of December 31, 2013 . In February 2015 , our Board of Directors approved our annual dividend rate of $0.48 per share for 2015 . Dividends at the annual rate would aggregate to $22.6 million assuming 47.0 million shares of our common stock are outstanding, although dividends are not guaranteed and our Board of Directors may decide to change or suspend dividend payments at any time for any reason. Our ability to continue to declare and pay dividends quarterly this year and beyond might be restricted by, among other things, the terms of our credit facility, general economic conditions and our ability to generate adequate operating cash flow. Off-balance sheet arrangements As of December 31, 2014 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. Foreign currency exchange rates Approximately 13% of our total net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 was derived from operations outside the United States. We do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly inflationary. Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, changes in the exchange rate between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of our subsidiaries financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. The accumulated currency translation adjustment, recorded within other comprehensive loss as a component of stockholders equity, was a loss of $0.9 million and $1.1 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. 54 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) The vast majority of our contracts are entered into by our U.S., Canadian or U.K. entities. The contracts entered into by the U.S. entity are almost always denominated in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars, and contracts entered into by our U.K., Australian, Irish and Netherlands subsidiaries are generally denominated in Pounds Sterling, Australian dollars and Euros, respectively. Historically, as the U.S. dollar weakened, foreign currency translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Conversely, as the U.S. dollar strengthened, foreign currency translation resulted in a decrease in our revenue and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. During 2014 , foreign translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Though we do not believe our exposure to currency exchange rates has had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position, we expect an impact on our operating results in the near term due to exchange rate fluctuations, primarily from Canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations, and we will continue to monitor our exposure. Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our costs were to become subject to significant inflationary pressures, we may not be able to fully offset such higher costs through price increases. Our inability or failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if inflationary pressures impact the rate of giving to our nonprofit customers, there could be adverse impacts to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Critical accounting policies and estimates Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, we reconsider and evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those that impact revenue recognition, long-lived and intangible assets and goodwill, the provision for income taxes, and the accounting for business combinations, among others. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could materially differ from any of our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the critical accounting policies listed below affect significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition Our revenue is primarily generated from the following sources: (i) charging for the use of our software products in a hosted environment; (ii) providing software maintenance and support services; (iii) providing professional services including implementation, training, consulting, analytic, hosting and other services; and (iv) selling perpetual licenses of our software products. We recognize revenue when all of the following conditions are met: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; The products or services have been delivered; The fee is fixed or determinable; and Collection of the resulting receivable is probable. 55 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Determining whether and when these criteria have been met can require significant judgment and estimates. We deem acceptance of an agreement to be evidence of an arrangement. Delivery of our services occurs when the services have been performed. Delivery of our products occurs when the product is shipped or transmitted, and title and risk of loss have transferred to the customers. Our typical agreements do not include customer acceptance provisions; however, if acceptance provisions are provided, delivery is deemed to occur upon acceptance. We consider the fee to be fixed or determinable unless the fee is subject to refund or adjustment or is not payable within our standard payment terms. Payment terms greater than 90 days are considered to be beyond our customary payment terms. Collection is deemed probable if we expect that the customer will be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as they become due. If we determine that collection is not probable, we defer revenue recognition until collection. Revenue is recognized net of sales returns and allowances. We follow guidance provided in ASC 605-45, Principal Agent Considerations , which states that determining whether a company should recognize revenue based on the gross amount billed to a customer or the net amount retained is a matter of judgment that depends on the facts and circumstances of the arrangement and that certain factors should be considered in the evaluation. Subscriptions We provide hosting services to customers who have purchased perpetual rights to certain of our software products (hosting services). Revenue from hosting services, as well as data enrichment services, data management services and online training programs, is recognized ratably beginning on the activation date over the term of the agreement, which generally ranges from one to three years. Any related set-up fees are recognized ratably over the estimated period that the customer benefits from the related hosting service. The estimated period of benefit is evaluated on an annual basis using historical customer retention information by product or service. We make certain of our software products available for use in hosted application arrangements without licensing perpetual rights to the software (hosted applications). Revenue from hosted applications is recognized ratably beginning on the activation date over the term of the agreement, which generally ranges from one to three years. Any revenue related to upfront activation or set-up fees is deferred and recognized ratably over the estimated period that the customer benefits from the related hosted application. Direct and incremental costs related to upfront activation or set-up activities for hosted applications are capitalized until the hosted application is deployed and in use, and then expensed ratably over the estimated period that the customer benefits from the related hosted application. For arrangements that have multiple elements and do not include software licenses, we allocate arrangement consideration at the inception of the arrangement to those elements that qualify as separate units of accounting. The arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate units of accounting based on relative selling price method in accordance with the selling price hierarchy, which includes: (i) vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value if available; (ii) third-party evidence (TPE) if VSOE is not available; and (iii) best estimate of selling price (BESP) if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. In general, we use VSOE to allocate the selling price to subscription and service deliverables. We offer certain payment processing services with the assistance of third-party vendors. In general, when we are the principal in a transaction based on the predominant weighting of factors identified in ASC 605-45, we record the revenue and related costs on a gross basis. Otherwise, we net the cost of revenue associated with the service against the gross amount billed to the customer and record the net amount as revenue. Revenue from transaction processing services is recognized when the service is provided and the amounts are determinable. Revenue directly associated with processing donations for customers are included in subscriptions revenue. 56 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) License fees We sell perpetual software licenses with maintenance, varying levels of professional services and, in certain instances, with hosting services. We allocate revenue to each of the elements in these arrangements using the residual method under which we first allocate revenue to the undelivered elements, typically the non-software license components, based on VSOE of fair value of the various elements. We determine VSOE of fair value of the various elements using different methods. VSOE of fair value for maintenance services associated with software licenses is based upon renewal rates stated in the agreements with customers, which demonstrate a consistent relationship of maintenance pricing as a percentage of the contractual license fee. VSOE of fair value of professional services and other products and services is based on the average selling price of these same products and services to other customers when sold on a stand-alone basis. Any remaining revenue is allocated to the delivered elements, which is normally the software license in the arrangement. In general, revenue is recognized for software licenses upon delivery to our customers. When a software license is sold with software customization services, generally the services are to provide the customer assistance in creating special reports and other enhancements that will improve operational efficiency and/or help to support business process improvements. These services are generally not essential to the functionality of the software and the related revenues are recognized either as the services are delivered or upon completion. However, when software customization services are considered essential to the functionality of the software, we recognize revenue for both the software license and the services using the percentage-of-completion method. Services We generally bill consulting, installation and implementation services based on hourly rates plus reimbursable travel-related expenses. Revenue is recognized for these services over the period the services are delivered. We recognize analytic services revenue from donor prospect research engagements, the sale of lists of potential donors, benchmarking studies and data modeling service engagements upon delivery. In arrangements where we provide customers the right to updates to the lists during the contract period, revenue is recognized ratably over the contract period. We sell training at a fixed rate for each specific class at a per attendee price or at a packaged price for several attendees, and recognize the related revenue upon the customer attending and completing training. Additionally, we sell fixed-rate programs, which permit customers to attend unlimited training over a specified contract period, typically one year, subject to certain restrictions, and revenue in those cases is recognized ratably over the contract period. Maintenance We recognize revenue from maintenance services ratably over the contract term, typically one year. Maintenance contracts are at rates that vary according to the level of the maintenance program associated with the software product and are generally renewable annually. Maintenance contracts may also include the right to unspecified product upgrades on an if-and-when available basis. Certain support services are sold in prepaid units of time and recognized as revenue upon their usage. Deferred revenue To the extent that our customers are billed for the above described services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue. 57 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Valuation of long-lived and intangible assets and goodwill We review identifiable intangible and other long-lived assets for impairment when events change or circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Events or changes in circumstances that indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in the market value of the business or asset acquired, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which the business or asset acquired is used or significant adverse change in the business climate or a change in circumstances that indicates it is more likely than not that a long-lived asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. If such events or changes in circumstances occur, we use the undiscounted cash flow method to determine whether the asset is impaired. Cash flows would include the estimated terminal value of the asset and exclude any interest charges. To the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted cash flows over the estimated remaining life of the asset, we measure the impairment using discounted cash flows. The discount rate utilized would be based on our best estimate of our risks and required investment returns at the time the impairment assessment is made. During the year ended December 31, 2014 , we recorded impairment charges of $1.6 million against certain previously capitalized software development costs which reduced the carrying value of certain previously capitalized software development costs to zero. The impairment charges resulted from obtaining software products through the acquisition of WhippleHill and determining that it was no longer probable that certain computer software that was being developed would be placed into service. Goodwill is assigned to our four reporting units, which are defined as our four operating segments ( see Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements). We test goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. We first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Significant judgment is required in the assessment of qualitative factors including but not limited to an evaluation of macroeconomic conditions as they relate to our business, industry and market trends, as well as the overall future financial performance of our reporting units and future opportunities in the markets in which they operate. To the extent the qualitative factors indicate that the fair value is likely less than the carrying amount, we compare the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount. We estimate fair value for each reporting unit based on projected future cash flows discounted using our weighted average cost of capital. A number of significant assumptions and estimates are involved in estimating the fair value of each reporting unit, including revenue growth rates, operating margins, capital spending, discount rate, and working capital changes. Additionally, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of our reporting units. We believe the assumptions we use in estimating fair value of our reporting units are reasonable, but are also unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. If the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, impairment is indicated. If an impairment is indicated, the impairment is measured as the excess of the recorded goodwill over its fair value, which could materially adversely impact our consolidated financial position and results of operations. The 2014 annual impairment test of our goodwill indicated there was no impairment. Income taxes We make estimates and judgments in accounting for income taxes. The calculation of income tax provision requires estimates due to transactions, credits and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Uncertainties arise as a consequence of the actual source of taxable income between domestic and foreign locations, the outcome of tax audits and the ultimate utilization of tax credits. To the extent actual results differ from estimated amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax provision in the period in which the determination is made. We make estimates in determining tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes. We record valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. In assessing the adequacy of a recorded valuation allowance significant judgment is required. We consider all positive and negative evidence and a variety of factors including the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, historical and projected future taxable income, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. If we determine there is less than a 50% likelihood that we will be able to use a deferred tax asset in the future in excess of its net carrying value, then an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance is made to increase income tax expense, thereby reducing net income in the period such determination was made. 58 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 7. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) We measure and recognize uncertain tax positions. To recognize such positions we must first determine if it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon audit. We must then measure the benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Significant judgment is required in the identification and measurement of uncertain tax positions. Business combinations We are required to allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date based upon their estimated fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date represents the excess of the purchase consideration of an acquired business over the fair value of the underlying net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. This allocation and valuation require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to long-lived and intangible assets. Critical estimates in valuing intangible assets include, but are not limited to, estimates about: future expected cash flows from customer contracts, proprietary technology and non-compete agreements; the acquired company's brand awareness and market position, assumptions about the period of time the brand will continue to be valuable; as well as expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed, and discount rates. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur. Recently adopted accounting pronouncements Effective January 1, 2014, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2013-11, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists . Under ASU 2013-11, an unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit, should be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward or a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward, except as follows. To the extent a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward is not available at the reporting date under the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction to settle any additional income taxes that would result from the disallowance of a tax position or the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction does not require the entity to use, and the entity does not intend to use, the deferred tax asset for such purpose, the unrecognized tax benefit should be presented in the financial statements as a liability and should not be combined with deferred tax assets. The adoption of ASU 2013-11 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Recently issued accounting pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . ASU 2014-09 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective. ASU 2014-09 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is not permitted. An entity should apply ASU 2014-09 either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the ASU recognized as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings at the date of initial application. We expect the adoption of ASU 2014-09 will impact our consolidated financial statements. We are currently evaluating implementation methods and the extent of the impact that implementation of this standard will have upon adoption. 59 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements