ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis presents financial information denominated in millions of dollars which can lead to differences from rounding when compared to similar information contained in the unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes which are primarily denominated in thousands of dollars. Executive Summary We are the leading software provider exclusively dedicated to powering social impact. Serving the nonprofit and education sectors, companies committed to social responsibility and individual change makers, our essential software is built to accelerate impact in fundraising, nonprofit financial management, digital giving, grantmaking, corporate social responsibility and education management. A remote-first company, we have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom, supporting users in 100+ countries. Our revenue is primarily generated from the following sources: (i) charging for the use of our software solutions in cloud and hosted environments; (ii) providing payment and transactional services; (iii) providing Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content; (iv) providing software maintenance and support services; and (v) providing professional services, including implementation, consulting, training, analytic and other services. Update on Five Key Operational Initiatives 1 Product Innovation and Delivery 2 Bookings Growth and Acceleration 3 Transactional Revenue Optimization and Expansion 4 Modernized Approach to Pricing and Multi-Year Customer Contracts 5 Keen Attention to Cost Management 1.Product Innovation and Delivery Product is core at Blackbaud, and we strive to bring increased value to our customers through their software subscriptions with improved and innovative capabilities. For example, we recently released a new, next generation donation form in Raisers Edge NXT with the goal of increasing the conversion rate and donations our customers raise. We match the new donation form with Prospect Insights, which utilizes artificial intelligence ("AI") to identify and qualify candidates for major gifts. We recently began an early adopter program for the new donation form with a small sample of customers across charity, education, and arts and cultural organizations. We expect to make this generally available in the first half of 2024. As recently announced, we introduced Impact Edge to our corporate sector customers. This newly developed solution aggregates EVERFIs educational impact data, with employee volunteering and giving data from YourCause. It provides a single view of a companys social impact program and replaces labor intensive, manually produced reports into a standardized structure. With Impact Edge, leaders who manage social impact initiatives are able to track and analyze performance of their programs in real time. We plan to put this new solution into an early adopter program late this year, with a full roll out in the second half of 2024. Third Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 25 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) For years, we have been using AI-enabled capabilities in our analytics offerings. We are expanding our strategy into next-generation and generative AI technology that addresses specific challenges of our customers. We continued to build on our Intelligence for Good strategy that leverages the power of machine learning and Artificial Intelligence across our products. For example, we recently introduced the Story Enhancer in JustGiving, our consumer giving platform. This Generative AI capability has resulted in more engagement among early adopters and is expected to have positive downstream impact on our transactional revenue. 2.Bookings Growth and Acceleration We drove strong bookings performance in the first quarter, up significantly versus last year, led by our corporate sector (YourCause and EVERFI solutions) which more than doubled its bookings over the first quarter of 2022. We signed a number of notable large contracts during the second and third quarters. As previously disclosed, there can be volatility quarter-to-quarter on bookings. 3.Transactional Revenue Optimization and Expansion Transactional revenue, which is about one-third of total revenue, has proven to be resilient so far in 2023 following the lower average donation sizes we experienced during the fourth quarter of 2022. Different rate increases on Blackbaud Merchant Services in the U.S. took effect in January and August 2023. Our Blackbaud Tuition Management and JustGiving platforms continue to perform well against plan. And as we look ahead, our teams are hard at work to drive innovation across our payments solutions that are a win-win for both our customers and Blackbaud. We have already introduced our two fee cover models, and we are also looking at ways to optimize our payments solutions to drive a better donor experience. 4.Modernized Approach to Pricing and Multi-Year Contracts Last summer, we put in place an updated pricing policy primarily for our social sector customers that directly reflects the value we provide to them, is in-line with the broader market and reflects the inflationary pressures that all businesses are facing. In November 2022, we started notifying customers with a March 2023 contract renewal that we would be making important contract changes. First, we are offering 3-year contract renewal terms as our standard, replacing one-year renewal terms. This process was already being implemented outside of the pricing changes. Second, we are implementing a more significant rate increase on the 1-year renewal option versus the 3-year renewal option. And third, the 3-year renewal option includes annual rate increases. Our 3-year renewal options did not historically include annual rate increases. These efforts are well on their way. We have already notified customers with March 2024 contract renewals of the new terms. Through October 2023, nearly 90% of our 2023 contracts eligible for renewal rate increases have already renewed. The close day-to-day management of renewals, the mix of 3-year and 1-year contracts, and the impact of pricing are progressing well, and we expect more impact from the compounding effect of these rate increases over time as we layer in future year contract renewals and annual rate increases. For example, over 50% of our planned 2023 revenue will renew in a little over 3 years and approximately 35% of that renewable base is expected to renew this year. These contracts are renewing every day and create revenue growth that we expect to accelerate with each successive quarter this year. We expect that to further impact 2024 and 2025 as we begin to see the full-year impact of the rate increases. Approximately 30% of the renewable base is up for renewal in 2024 and more than 20% in 2025. The adoption of 3-year renewals as a standard, with more customers opting for this option than we originally expected, are expected to have an added benefit of higher retention which provides greater revenue assurance and predictability. Looking even further ahead, the cycle starts fresh in 2026 as the 2023 signed contracts will begin to renew. We expect that this will be a sustainable and meaningful revenue growth stream for us. 5.Keen Attention to Cost Management We closed four legacy data centers during 2022, and we plan to close more this year. We renegotiated key vendor contracts including Microsoft Azure and AWS and made the difficult decision to further reduce our staff in the first quarter. Because we have organized to achieve much better scale efficiencies, we have significantly reduced our headcount since the third quarter of 2022. Our goal is to run the business at about this headcount level for the foreseeable future, such that our revenue growth will better drive margin acceleration. 26 Third Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Financial Summary Total revenue ($M) Income (Loss) from operations ($M) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Total revenue increased by $16.3 million and $27.1 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, driven largely by the following: + Growth in recurring revenue primarily related to: l increases in contractual recurring revenue of $10.9 million and $17.9 million, respectively, related to the performance of our cloud solutions and, to a lesser extent, the early impact of our pricing initiatives; partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue as customers migrate to our cloud solutions; also offsetting the increases in contractual recurring revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 was a decrease related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.7 million; and l increases in transactional recurring revenue of $8.7 million and $19.7 million, respectively, primarily due to positive results related to pricing initiatives we implemented during 2023 and, to a lesser extent, increases in volume for our Blackbaud Tuition Management and JustGiving solutions; also offsetting the increases in transactional recurring revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 was a decrease related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.9 million. - Decreases in one-time service and other revenue primarily related to: l decreases in one-time consulting revenue due primarily to less sales of creative services and implementation and customization services. Also contributing is an increase in utilization of third-party service delivery partners. For several years, we have been strategically shifting away from a one-time services business model towards sales of retained and managed services and also embedding services in our renewable cloud solution contracts. Retained and managed services contracts that we expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, and embedded services are recorded as recurring revenue; and l decreases in one-time analytics revenue as analytics are generally integrated in our cloud solutions. For additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results, see Foreign Currency Exchange Rates below on page 47. Third Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) We have a number of multi-year pricing initiatives underway, some to bring our pricing in line with the market while others are model changes that are expected to drive greater revenue for both us and our customers. As a result, we expect to see a continued acceleration in revenue growth during the fourth quarter of 2023 as we begin to see the full-year effect of some of these pricing initiatives. We expect that the one-time services and other revenue will continue to significantly decrease during 2023 compared to 2022 driven by our continued migration to the cloud in our core business. Income from operations increased by $29.1 million and $25.3 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, driven largely by the following: + Increases in total revenue, as described above + Net decreases in the following costs primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed below: Decreases in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $11.5 million and $29.3 million, respectively; and Decrease in commission expense of $1.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2023; partially offset by Increase in severance costs of $4.4 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 + Decrease in Security Incident-related expenses of $9.6 million during the three months ended September 30, 2023. See "Security Incident update" below. + Decreases in third-party contractor costs of $4.8 million and $8.5 million, respectively, primarily due to a decrease in our use of third-party software developers + A $2.3 million noncash impairment charge during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 against previously capitalized software development costs that reduced the carrying value of those assets to zero. The impairment charge resulted primarily from our decision to end customer support for certain solutions + Decreases in other corporate costs of $1.4 million and $3.0 million, respectively, primarily related to the release of certain accrued tax liabilities due to favorable sales tax rulings, partially offset by increases in bad debt expense + Decreases in hosting and data center costs of $0.8 million and $4.4 million, respectively, as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security; currently, we expect our cloud infrastructure migration efforts and increased level of cybersecurity investments to continue for the foreseeable future - Increase in Security Incident-related expenses of $19.4 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2023. See "Security Incident update" below. - Increases in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $4.6 million and $1.1 million, respectively, primarily related to the noncash impairment charges against certain operating lease right-of-use assets and property and equipment assets resulting the sublease of our Washington, DC office location; the increase during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 was partially offset by the release of $1.4 million in accrued contingent consideration related to our Kilter acquisition during the second quarter of 2023 and a $2.0 million noncash impairment of certain insignificant intangible assets that were held for sale during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 which did not reoccur in 2023 - Increases in stock-based compensation expense of $4.4 million and $12.0 million, respectively, primarily due to 2022 performance-based equity award adjustments and estimated overall Company performance against 2023 goals, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and first quarter of 2023 - Increases in transaction-based costs of $2.8 million and $6.1 million, respectively, related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments and, to a lesser extent, increases in vendor rates - Increases in advertising costs of $1.7 million and $1.8 million, respectively - Increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.4 million and $2.7 million, respectively, due to our acquisition of EVERFI 28 Third Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) - Net increase of $1.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 primarily related to higher third-party software costs due to the number of licenses needed and also price increases for the software being used, partially offset by a decrease in rent and utilities - Net decreases of $1.1 million and $2.8 million, respectively, due to an increase in amortization of capitalized software and content development costs, partially offset by an increase in software and content development costs that were required to be capitalized under the internal-use software guidance We are continuing to make critical investments in the business in areas such as digital marketing, innovation, cybersecurity, and our continued shift of cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers. Our profitability during the first three quarters of 2023 reflects some of these incremental investments. We continuously seek opportunities to optimize our portfolio of solutions to focus time and resources on innovation that will have the greatest impact for our customers and the markets we serve, and drive the highest return on investment. To that end, we will continue to simplify and rationalize our portfolio through product sunsets and divestitures of non-core businesses and technologies. Gross dollar retention Our recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception. We have been for several years successfully shifting our legacy customer base away from annual renewals and moving them onto multi-year renewal contracts. A key factor to our overall success is the renewal and expansion of our existing subscription agreements with our customers. Management uses gross dollar retention in analyzing our success at delighting our customers with innovative and cloud solutions. Gross dollar retention is defined as contracted annual recurring revenue ("CARR") divided by beginning CARR with a measurement period of twelve months. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2023, our gross dollar retention was approximately 90%. This gross dollar retention rate is relatively consistent with our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2022. We are continually investing in innovation, which we believe will increase gross dollar retention over the long-term. Although some customer attrition is normal, our new contract pricing and renewal model (as described above on page 26) does not appear to have had a significant impact on customer attrition to date. Balance sheet and cash flow At September 30, 2023, our cash and cash equivalents were $31.1 million. Under 2020 Credit Facility, the carrying amount of our debt was $683.2 million and our net leverage ratio was 2.11 to 1.00. During the nine months ended September 30, 2023, we generated $203.0 million in cash from operations, had a net decrease in borrowings of $118.2 million, and had aggregate cash outlays of $48.9 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software and content development costs. We currently expect to resume stock repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2023 under our existing stock repurchase program that authorizes us to purchase up to $250.0 million of our outstanding shares of common stock. Third Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Security Incident update As discussed in Note 8 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report, total costs related to the Security Incident exceeded the limit of our insurance coverage in the first quarter of 2022. Accordingly, the Security Incident has negatively impacted, and we expect it to continue for the foreseeable future to negatively impact, our GAAP profitability and GAAP cash flow (see discussion regarding non-GAAP free cash flow and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow on page 42). For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, we incurred net pre-tax expenses of $4.1 million and $48.6 million, respectively, related to the Security Incident, which included $4.1 million and $18.6 million, respectively, for ongoing legal fees and additional accruals for loss contingencies of $0.0 million and $30.0 million, respectively. During the nine months ended September 30, 2023, we had net cash outlays of $23.1 million related to the Security Incident, which included ongoing legal fees and the $3.0 million civil penalty paid during the first quarter of 2023 related to the SEC settlement (as discussed in Note 8). In line with our policy, legal fees are expensed as incurred. For full year 2023, we currently expect net pre-tax expense of approximately $20.0 million to $30.0 million and net cash outlays of approximately $25.0 million to $35.0 million for ongoing legal fees related to the Security Incident. Not included in these ranges are our previous settlements or current accruals for loss contingencies related to the matters discussed below. For full year 2024, we currently expect a significant decrease in net pre-tax expense related to the Security Incident for ongoing legal fees. As of September 30, 2023, we have recorded approximately $50.0 million in aggregate liabilities for loss contingencies based primarily on negotiations with certain governmental agencies related to the Security Incident that we believed we could reasonably estimate in accordance with our loss contingency procedures described in Note 8. In connection with the settlement of the multi-state Attorneys General investigation (as discussed in Note 8 and Note 12), we expect to pay $49.5 million during the fourth quarter of 2023. There are other Security Incident-related matters, including customer claims, customer constituent class actions and governmental investigations, for which we have not recorded a liability for a loss contingency as of September 30, 2023 because we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss. Each of these matters could, separately or in the aggregate, result in an adverse judgment, settlement, fine, penalty or other resolution, the amount, scope and timing of which we are currently unable to predict, but could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 30 Third Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Results of Operations Comparison of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022 Revenue and Cost of Revenue Recurring Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud solutions, Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content, hosting services, payment services, online training programs and subscription-based analytic services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, retained and managed services contracts that we expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions. Cost of recurring revenue is primarily comprised of compensation costs for customer support and production IT personnel, hosting and data center costs, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty and data expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations, amortization of software development costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services including remittances of amounts due to third-parties and other costs incurred in providing support and recurring services to our customers. Our customers continue to prefer cloud subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth. Third Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 31 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Recurring revenue increased by $19.6 million, or 7.9%, and $37.6 million, or 5.0%, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, driven primarily by the following: + Increases in contractual recurring revenue of $10.9 million and $17.9 million, respectively, related to the performance of our cloud solutions and, to a lesser extent, the early impact of our pricing initiatives; partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue as customers migrate to our cloud solutions; also offsetting the increases in contractual recurring revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 was a decrease related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.7 million; and + Increases in transactional recurring revenue of $8.7 million and $19.7 million, respectively, primarily due to positive results related to pricing initiatives we implemented at the beginning of 2023 and, to a lesser extent, increases in volume for our Blackbaud Tuition Management and JustGiving solutions; also offsetting the increases in transactional recurring revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 was a decrease related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.9 million. For additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results, see Foreign Currency Exchange Rates below on page 47. Cost of recurring revenue increased by $2.6 million, or 2.4%, and $4.4 million, or 1.3%, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, driven primarily by the following: + Increases in transaction-based costs of $2.8 million and $6.1 million, respectively, related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments and, to a lesser extent, increases in vendor rates + Increases in amortization of software development costs of $1.5 million and $4.2 million, respectively, due to our continued investments in the innovation and security of our solutions + Increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.2 million and $2.6 million, respectively, primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI in December 2021 + Increases in stock-based compensation costs of $0.8 million and $1.6 million, respectively, primarily due to 2022 performance-based equity award adjustments and estimated overall Company performance against 2023 goals, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and first quarter of 2023 + Increase in third-party software costs of $0.7 million, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, primarily related to a higher number of licenses needed and also price increases for the software being used - Decreases in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $2.7 million and $7.5 million, respectively, primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above - Decreases in third-party contractor and hosting costs of $0.9 million and $4.2 million, respectively, as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security; currently, we expect our cloud infrastructure migration efforts and increased level of cybersecurity investments to continue for the foreseeable future Recurring gross margin increased by 230 and 160 basis points for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, primarily due to the increases in recurring revenue outpacing the changes in cost of recurring revenue. 32 Third Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) One-time services and other Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting (including creative services), analytic and onsite training services, fees for retained and managed services contracts that we do not expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, and third-party software referral fees. Cost of one-time services and other is primarily comprised of compensation costs for professional services and onsite training personnel, other costs incurred in providing onsite customer training, third-party contractor expenses, data expense incurred to perform one-time analytic services, third-party software royalties, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations. One-time services and other revenue decreased by $3.3 million, or 27.6%, and $10.5 million, or 28.6%, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, when compared to the same periods in 2022, driven primarily by the following: - Decreases in one-time consulting revenue of $2.1 million and $7.8 million, respectively, primarily due to less sales of creative services and implementation and customization services. Also contributing is an increase in utilization of third-party service delivery partners. For several years, we have been strategically shifting away from a one-time services business model towards sales of retained and managed services and also embedding services in our renewable cloud solution contracts. Retained and managed services contracts that we expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, and embedded services are recorded as recurring revenue. - Decreases in one-time analytics revenue of $1.2 million and $2.8 million, respectively, as analytics are generally integrated in our cloud solutions Third Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 33 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Cost of one-time services and other decreased by $1.8 million, or 19.2%, and $8.0 million, or 25.1%, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, driven primarily by the following: - Decreases in compensation costs of $1.9 million and $6.9 million, respectively, primarily related to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above and a continued shift in resources historically supporting one-time services and other towards recurring revenue One-time services and other gross margin decreased by 920 basis points and 420 basis points during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, primarily due to the decrease of one-time services and other revenue outpacing the decrease in compensation costs discussed above. Operating Expenses Sales, marketing and customer success ($M) Research and development ($M) General and administrative ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue Sales, marketing and customer success Sales, marketing and customer success expense includes compensation costs, variable sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs, variable reseller commissions and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We see a large market opportunity in the long-term and will continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness. We have also implemented software tools to enhance our digital footprint and drive lead generation. The enhancements we are making in our go-to-market approach are expected to reduce our average customer acquisition cost per customer as well as the related payback period while increasing sales velocity. 34 Third Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Sales, marketing and customer success expense decreased by $4.0 million or 7.0%, and $4.3 million or 2.6%, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, primarily driven by the following: - Net decreases in the following costs primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above: Decreases in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $3.7 million and $7.1 million, respectively; and Decrease in commissions expense of $1.4 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2023; partially offset by Increase in severance costs of $2.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 - Decreases in third-party contractor costs of $2.2 million and $2.6 million, respectively, primarily related to strategic consulting costs incurred during 2022 + Increase in stock-based compensation costs of $2.6 million, during the nine months ended September 30, 2023, primarily due to 2022 performance-based equity award adjustments and estimated overall Company performance against 2023 goals, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and first quarter of 2023 + Increases in advertising costs of $1.7 million and $1.8 million, respectively Research and development Research and development expense includes compensation costs for engineering and product management personnel, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new solutions or upgrading and enhancing existing solutions that do not qualify for capitalization, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We continue to make investments to delight our customers with innovative and secure cloud solutions. Research and development expenses decreased by $2.5 million, or 6.1%, and $4.0 million or 3.4%, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, primarily driven by the following: - Decreases in third-party contractor costs of $1.9 million and $5.5 million, respectively, primarily due to a decrease in our use of third-party software developers - Decreases in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $1.9 million and $3.8 million, respectively, primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above + Increases in stock-based compensation of $1.8 million and $4.6 million, respectively, primarily due to estimated overall Company performance against 2023 goals, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and first quarter of 2023. 2022 performance-based equity award adjustments also contributed to the increase in stock-based compensation expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 + Increase in severance costs of $1.1 million, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above Not included in research and development expense for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022 were $15.7 million and $15.1 million, respectively, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022 were $45.4 million and $43.6 million, respectively, of qualifying costs associated with software and content development activities that are required to be capitalized under GAAP, such as those for our cloud solutions, as well as development costs associated with acquired companies. Qualifying capitalized development costs associated with our cloud solutions are subsequently amortized to cost of recurring revenue over the related assets' estimated useful life, which generally range from three to seven years. General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, Security Incident-related expenses (including legal fees, settlements and loss contingency accruals), third-party professional fees, insurance, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses. Third Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 35 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) General and administrative expense decreased by $7.3 million or 14.6%, during the three months ended September 30, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, primarily driven by the following: - Decrease in Security Incident-related expenses of $9.6 million. See "Security Incident update" on page 30 - Decrease in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $1.4 million primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above - Decrease in corporate costs of $1.1 million primarily related to the release of certain accrued tax liabilities due to favorable sales tax rulings, partially offset by an increase in bad debt expense + Increase in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $4.6 million primarily related to the noncash impairment charges against certain operating lease right-of-use assets and property and equipment assets resulting the sublease of our Washington, DC office location + Increase in stock-based compensation costs of $1.8 million primarily due to estimated overall Company performance against 2023 goals, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and first quarter of 2023. General and administrative expense increased by $13.6 million or 9.6%, during the nine months ended September 30, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, primarily driven by the following: + Increase in Security Incident-related expenses of $19.4 million. See "Security Incident update" on page 30 + Increase in stock-based compensation costs of $4.0 million primarily due to estimated overall Company performance against 2023 goals, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and first quarter of 2023. 2022 performance-based equity award adjustments also contributed to the increase in stock-based compensation expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 + Increase in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $1.1 million primarily related to the noncash impairment discussed above, partially offset by the release of $1.4 million in accrued contingent consideration related to our Kilter acquisition during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and a $2.0 million noncash impairment of certain insignificant intangible assets that were held for sale during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 which did not reoccur in the comparable 2023 period - Decrease in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $4.7 million primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above - A $2.3 million noncash impairment charge during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 against previously capitalized software development costs that reduced the carrying value of those assets to zero. The impairment charge resulted primarily from our decision to end customer support for certain solutions and did not reoccur in 2023 - Decrease in corporate costs of $1.1 million primarily related to the release of certain accrued tax liabilities due to favorable sales tax rulings, partially offset by an increase in bad debt expense - Decreases in travel costs and third-party contractor costs of $0.8 million and $0.8 million, respectively, primarily due to our focus on cost management 36 Third Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Interest Expense Interest expense ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue Interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended September 30, 2023, was relatively in line with the same period in 2022. The increase in interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same period in 2022, was primarily due to an increase in our weighted average effective interest rates. We currently expect interest expense for the full year 2023 to be approximately $37 million to $41 million although our interest expense in connection with the variable rate portion of our outstanding debt could increase in a rising interest rate environment. See Note 7 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information regarding our derivative instruments, which we use to manage our variable interest rate risk, and