ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. As discussed in the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements, the following discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors under Part I, Item IA of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 23, 2023. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to BlackSky, the Company, we, us and our refer to the business and operations of BlackSky Technology Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries and BlackSky Holdings, Inc. ("Legacy BlackSky") and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the completion of its merger on September 9, 2021 with a wholly owned subsidiary of Osprey Technology Acquisition Corp (the "Merger"). Company Overview We own and operate one of the industry's leading high-performance low earth orbit (LEO) small satellite constellations. Our constellation is optimized to cost-efficiently capture imagery at high revisit rates where and when our customers need it. The orbital configuration of our constellation is designed to collect data on the most critical and strategic locations in the world. With sixteen satellites in orbit as of March 31, 2023, our constellation is able to image certain locations every 60 to 90 minutes, from dawn to dusk, providing our customers with insights and situational awareness throughout the day. Our satellites are designed with agile pointing capabilities that enable our customers to task our constellation on demand to collect specific locations of interest. Our tasking methodology employs proprietary artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled software to efficiently collect images of the most important strategic and economic assets and areas of interest to our customers. We believe that our focus on critical strategies and economic infrastructure and the AI-enabled tasking of our constellation differentiates us from many of our competitors, who are primarily dedicated to mapping the entirety of the Earth on a routine basis. Our differentiated approach to space enables us to deliver highly targeted and valuable intelligence with a smaller constellation fleet that has the added benefit of greater operating and capital efficiencies. Our Spectra AI software platform can, among other things, process millions of observations a day from our proprietary satellite constellation and from multiple external data sources including imaging, radar and radio frequency satellites, environmental sensors, asset tracking sensors, Internet-of-Things (IoT) connected devices, internet-enabled narrative sources, and a variety of geotemporal data feeds. Spectra AI employs advanced, proprietary AI and machine learning (ML) techniques to process, analyze, and transform these data feeds into alerts, information, and insights that our customers receive, all fully automated. Customers can access Spectra AI's data and analytics through easy-to-use web services or through platform application programming interfaces. Our next generation satellites (Gen-3), expected to launch in 2024, are designed to improve our imaging resolution even further and include short wave infrared imaging technology for a broad set of imaging conditions, including nighttime and low-light. We believe these advancements will expand the relevance and certainty of our analytics to continue to ensure our importance to our customers. We also believe the combination of our high-revisit, small satellite constellation, our Spectra AI platform, and low constellation cost is transforming the market for geospatial imagery and space-based data and analytics. Our operating strategy is to continue to enhance the capabilities of our satellite constellation, to increase the number of third-party data sources processed by our Spectra AI platform, and to expand our analytics offerings in order to increase the value we deliver to our customers. Our two strategic assetsour satellite constellation and our Spectra AI platformare mutually reinforcing: as we capture ever more information about the worlds most important strategic and economic assets and locations, our proprietary database expands and increases its utility; enabling us to better detect, understand, and predict changes that matter most to our customers. Our business has a natural and powerful flywheel effect: the more data we collect and analyze, the more valuable the insights we can deliver to our customers. 27 Table of Contents Our current customer base and end market mix are weighted towards U.S. and international defense and intelligence customers and markets. We believe there are significant opportunities to expand our imagery and software analytical services, as well as our professional and engineering service offerings, to a broad set of customers both domestically and internationally. In addition, our services and products can benefit customers in a variety of commercial markets including, but not limited to, energy and utilities, insurance, commodities, mining, manufacturing, logistics, supply chain management, agriculture, environmental monitoring, disaster and risk management, engineering and construction, retail and consumer behavior. We offer a variety of pricing and utilization options for our imagery and software analytical service offerings, with the majority of our agreements structured as subscription contracts, followed by usage-based pricing and transactional licenses. These options provide customers flexibility to utilize our imagery and software analytical services in a manner that best suits their business needs. We offer a range of pricing tiers that enables the customer to manage collection priorities, when during critical events they can pay a premium to prioritize their monitoring and collection requirements. At other times, customers can select lower priority collections to allow for more economical utilization. We currently derive revenue from variable and fixed pricing plans that allow our customers to choose what matters most to themplatform licensing-levels, priority for imagery tasking, and whether to apply analytics or monitoring capabilities overtop the imaging service. Components of Operating Results Revenue Our revenue is generated by selling imagery and software analytics services through our Spectra AI platform and by providing professional and engineering services to strategic customers on a project basis. Imagery and Software Analytical Services Revenue Imagery: We offer our customers high-revisit, on-demand high resolution electro optical satellite imaging services. Through our Spectra AI platform, customers can directly task our proprietary satellite constellation to collect and deliver imagery over specific locations, sites, and regions that are critical to their operations. We offer customers several service level options that include basic plans for on-demand tasking or multi-year assured access programs, where customers can secure priority access and imaging capacity at a premium over a region of interest on a take or pay basis. Data, Software, and Analytics: Our analytics services are also offered on a subscription or consumption basis and provide customers with access to our site monitoring, event monitoring and global data services. We leverage our proprietary AI and ML algorithms to analyze data coming from both our proprietary sensor network and third-party space sources in real-time to provide data, insights, and analytics for our customers. We provide services related to object, change and anomaly detection, site monitoring, and enhanced analytics through which we can detect key pattern of life changes in critical locations. These critical locations can include strategic locations and infrastructure such as ports, airports, and construction sites; retail activity; commodities stockpiles; and other sites that contain critical commodities and supply chain inventory. We expect continued imagery and software analytical services revenue growth in the year ending December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year, as a result of increases in our sales orders driven by stronger customer demand. Professional and Engineering Services RevenueWe develop and deliver advanced launch vehicle, satellite and payload systems for specific strategic customers that desire to leverage our capabilities in mission systems engineering and operations, ground station operations, software, analytics and systems development. These systems are sold to government customers under fixed price contracts and are often bundled with our imagery services offerings. In certain cases, we retain rights to intellectual property for developed technology of certain systems, and this paid effort offsets some of our product development effort. We also provide technology enabled professional service solutions to support customer-specific feature request and to support the integration, testing, and training of our imagery and software analytical services 28 Table of Contents into the customer's organizational processes and workflows. We also provide software systems engineering development services to support the integration of high volume and mass quantities of data in their operating platforms. We expect continued meaningful contribution from our professional and engineering services revenue. The expected increase in revenue will be primarily from commencing contracts with existing U.S. and international defense and intelligence customers for whom we need to perform development work prior to the implementation of their subscription service contracts. Costs and Expenses Our costs and expenses are incurred from the following categories: Imagery and software analytical services costs primarily include internal aerospace and geospatial software development labor, third-party data and imagery, internal labor to support the ground stations and space operations, and cloud computing and hosting services. Costs are expensed as incurred except for incremental costs to obtain a contract, primarily sales commissions, which are capitalized and amortized to selling, general, and administrative expenses on a systematic basis consistent with the transfer of goods and services. Expense related to stock-based payments is classified in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss based upon the classification of each employees cash compensation. We recognize stock-based compensation expense for those employees whose work supports the imagery and software analytical service costs we provide to customers, under imagery and software analytical service costs, excluding depreciation and amortization. Professional and engineering service costs primarily include the cost of internal labor for design and engineering in support of long-term development contracts for launch vehicle, satellite, and payload systems as well as subcontract direct materials and external labor costs to build and test specific components, such as the communications system, payload demands, and sensor integration. In addition, we also recognize internal labor costs and external subcontract labor costs for our customer-centric software service solutions. We recognize stock-based compensation expense for those employees who provide professional and engineering services support to customers, under professional and engineering service costs, excluding depreciation and amortization. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses are incurred from the following categories: Selling, general, and administrative expense consists of salaries and benefit costs, development costs, professional fees, and other expenses which includes other personnel-related costs, stock-based compensation expenses for those employees who generally support our business and operations, and occupancy costs. Our development costs include internal labor costs to design and plan critical real-time software and geospatial analytic solutions and solution enhancements, including mapping, analysis, site target monitoring, and news feeds. Research and development expense consists of employees salaries, taxes, and benefits costs incurred for data science modeling and algorithm development related to our Spectra AI platform, and for the strategic development efforts to support our long-term strategy. In addition, we employ and classify third-party vendors who fulfill our strategic projects as research and development expense. We intend to continue to invest appropriate resources in research and development efforts, as we believe that investment is critical to maintaining our competitive position. Depreciation expense is related to property and equipment which mainly consists of operational satellites. Amortization expense is related to intangible assets which mainly consists of customer relationships. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 Effective January 1, 2022, the Company reorganized its captions on the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss to better align the Companys broad portfolio. As a result, for the three months ended March 31, 2022, the amounts presented to reflect the impact of the reorganization have been 29 Table of Contents recasted. Period to period comparisons are not necessarily indicative of future results. The following table provides the components of results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue Imagery & software analytical services $ 15,760 $ 7,370 $ 8,390 113.8 % Professional & engineering services 2,637 6,526 (3,889) (59.6) % Total revenue 18,397 13,896 4,501 32.4 % Costs and expenses Imagery & software analytical service costs, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,699 3,578 121 3.4 % Professional & engineering service costs, excluding depreciation and amortization 2,779 7,377 (4,598) (62.3) % Selling, general and administrative 18,949 22,540 (3,591) (15.9) % Research and development 216 146 70 47.9 % Depreciation and amortization 9,655 7,391 2,264 30.6 % Operating loss (16,901) (27,136) 10,235 37.7 % Gain on derivatives 1,531 8,140 (6,609) (81.2) % Income on equity method investment 529 257 272 105.8 % Interest income 435 435 NM Interest expense (1,853) (1,255) (598) (47.6) % Other (expense) income, net (943) 2 (945) NM Loss before income taxes (17,202) (19,992) 2,790 14.0 % Income tax expense (113) (113) NM Net loss $ (17,315) $ (19,992) $ 2,677 13.4 % NM - Fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Imagery & software analytical revenue $ 15,760 $ 7,370 $ 8,390 113.8 % % of total revenue 85.7 % 53.0 % Professional & engineering services revenue 2,637 6,526 (3,889) (59.6) % % of total revenue 14.3 % 47.0 % Total revenue $ 18,397 $ 13,896 $ 4,501 32.4 % 30 Table of Contents Imagery and Software Analytical Services Revenue Imagery and software analytical services revenue significantly increased for the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, driven by increased imagery and analytics orders from existing customers and several firm-fixed price subscription contracts with new domestic and international customers. Professional and Engineering Services Revenue Professional and engineering services revenue decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, primarily due to a lower quarterly percentage of completion achieved in two engineering services contracts as a result of an increase in the program's maturity year-over-year. Costs and Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Imagery & software analytical service costs, excluding depreciation and amortization $ 3,699 $ 3,578 $ 121 3.4 % Professional & engineering service costs, excluding depreciation and amortization 2,779 7,377 (4,598) (62.3) % Total costs $ 6,478 $ 10,955 $ (4,477) (40.9) % Imagery and Software Analytical Service Costs Imagery and software analytical service costs increased slightly for the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, primarily due to increased data volumes and maintaining the growth of our satellite and ground stations networks. Professional and Engineering Service Costs Professional and engineering service costs decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022, primarily due to fewer costs incurred on two engineering services contracts, driven by an increase in the programs' maturity year-over-year. In addition, we experienced a decrease in unfavorable changes in our estimate to complete on two engineering services contracts in 2023 as compared to the prior year. The estimation of total costs to complete on long-term projects are subject to many variables and requires judgment and we may have future changes in estimates, which may have an impact on professional and engineering service costs and associated revenues. 31 Table of Contents Selling, General, and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Stock-based compensation expense $ 2,737 $ 9,319 $ (6,582) (70.6) % Salaries and benefit costs 10,110 7,901 2,209 28.0 % Development costs 347 172 175 101.7 % Professional fees 1,100 1,318 (218) (16.5) % Information technology and other administrative expenses 2,215 1,088 1,127 103.6 % Selling and marketing 827 946 (119) (12.6) % Rent expense 778 558 220 39.4 % Insurance 835 1,238 (403) (32.6) % Selling, general and administrative $ 18,949 $ 22,540 $ (3,591) (15.9) % Selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022. Stock-based compensation expense decreased approximately $6.6 million related to the vesting of a significant number of restricted stock units ("RSUs") in 2022. Salaries and payroll-related benefits increased due to headcount growth in sales, software engineers, and administrative functions. In addition, our information technology and other administrative expenses increased due to additional costs to support a larger employee base and increased travel as we built out our sales organization and our employees attended industry conferences. The following is our forecast for total RSU expense as of March 31, 2023, which, in addition to the amounts recognized in selling, general, and administrative expenses, includes the portion that will be capitalized or classified in imagery and software analytical service costs and professional and engineering service costs: (in thousands) For the years ending December 31, 2023 $ 6,019 2024 4,162 2025 3,155 2026 1,249 2027 9 $ 14,594 Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 216 $ 146 $ 70 47.9 % Research and development expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase was driven by contracting third-party vendors who fulfill our strategic projects as research and development expense. 32 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Depreciation of satellites $ 8,474 $ 7,103 $ 1,371 19.3 % Depreciation of all other property and equipment 1,041 148 893 603.4 % Amortization 140 140 % Depreciation and amortization $ 9,655 $ 7,391 $ 2,264 30.6 % Depreciation expense from satellites increased for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022, primarily driven by increased satellites in service. Depreciation expense from all other property and equipment increased for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022, primarily driven by capitalization of software and additional computer equipment that was placed into service. Amortization expense remained flat for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022. Non-Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Gain on derivatives 1,531 8,140 (6,609) (81.2) % Income on equity method investment 529 257 272 105.8 % Interest income 435 435 NM Interest expense (1,853) (1,255) (598) (47.6) % Other (expense) income, net (943) 2 (945) NM NM - Fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. Gain on derivatives Fluctuations in our equity warrants and other equity instruments that we classify as derivative liabilities and measure at fair value are significantly driven by our common stock price; these instruments generated gains during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022. Income on equity method investment The fluctuations in earnings from our equity method investment is directly related to the operating performance of our joint venture LeoStella. Interest income Interest income increased during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as a result of our short-term investments purchased in the second quarter of 2022. 33 Table of Contents Interest expense Interest expense increased during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as a result of a higher effective interest rate on our loans from related parties. Other (expense) income, net For the three months ended March 31, 2023, other income (expense), net primarily included $0.9 million of transaction costs associated with new warrants that are accounted for as derivative liabilities. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, management utilizes certain non-GAAP performance measures, such as Adjusted EBITDA for purposes of evaluating our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. Our management and board of directors believe that this non-GAAP operating measure, when reviewed collectively with our GAAP financial information, provides useful supplemental information to investors in assessing our operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income or loss attributable to us before interest income, interest expense, income tax expense or benefit, depreciation and amortization, as well as significant non-cash and/or non-recurring expenses as our management believes these items are not useful in evaluating our core operating performance. These items include, but are not limited to stock-based compensation expense, unrealized (gain) loss on certain warrants/shares classified as derivative liabilities, severance, income on equity method investment, investment loss on short-term investments, and transaction costs associated with equity instruments accounted for as derivative liabilities. We have presented Adjusted EBITDA because it is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our operating performance, generate future operating plans and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. In particular, we believe that the exclusion of certain items in calculating Adjusted EBITDA can produce a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information in understanding and evaluating our operating results. In addition, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides additional information for investors to use in evaluating our ongoing operating results and trends. This non-GAAP measure provides investors with incremental information for the evaluation of our performance after isolation of certain items deemed unrelated to our core business operations. Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a supplemental measure to our GAAP measures of performance. When evaluating Adjusted EBITDA, you should be aware that we may incur future expenses similar to those excluded when calculating this measure. In addition, our presentation of this measure should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. Furthermore, our computation of Adjusted EBITDA may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures computed by other companies, as the nature of the adjustments that other companies may include or exclude when calculating Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the adjustments reflected in our measure. Because of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation, nor should this measure be viewed as a substitute for the most directly comparable GAAP measure, which is net loss. We compensate for the limitations of non-GAAP measures by relying primarily on our GAAP results. You should review the reconciliation of our net loss to Adjusted EBITDA below and not rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our performance. 34 Table of Contents The table below reconciles our Net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net loss $ (17,315) $ (19,992) Interest income (435) Interest expense 1,853 1,255 Income tax expense 113 Depreciation and amortization 9,655 7,391 Stock-based compensation expense 3,012 10,240 Gain on derivatives (1,531) (8,140) Income on equity method investment (529) (257) Transaction costs associated with derivative liabilities 905 Severance 88 Investment loss on short-term investments 55 Adjusted EBITDA $ (4,129) $ (9,503) Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, our existing sources of liquidity included cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Our cash and cash equivalents excluding restricted cash totaled $57.0 million and $34.2 million as of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, and our short-term investments totaled $11.8 million and $38.0 million as of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. We have incurred losses and generated negative cash flows from operations since our inception in September 2014. As of March 31, 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of $562.4 million. Our short-term liquidity as of March 31, 2023 was comprised of the following: (in thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 56,964 Restricted cash(1) 2,835 Short-term investments(2) 11,792 $ 71,591 (1) We expect that $1.0 million of restricted cash will transfer to cash and cash equivalents by June 30, 2023. (2) Short-term investments are included in cash flows from investing activities in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. We expect cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operating activities to be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for the foreseeable future. Our future long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support solution development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the ongoing investments in technology infrastructure, the introduction of new and enhanced solutions, and the continuing market acceptance of our solutions. From time to time, we may seek additional equity or debt financing to fund capital expenditures, strategic initiatives or investments and our ongoing operations. We do not have a line of credit or access to immediate funds and we are not subject to any financial or minimum cash metrics. If we decide, or are required, to seek additional financing from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents Funding Requirements While our expenses may continue to exceed our revenues in the near term due to investments we are making in sales, marketing and products to increase our market share, we expect this difference to decline as we progress to becoming operating cash flow positive. We expect to continue to incur capital expenditures as we procure and launch satellites to increase image collection capacity, as well as investing in our Gen-3 satellites and our Spectra AI platform to significantly expand our product capabilities in the future. Short-Term Liquidity Requirements As of March 31, 2023, our current assets were approximately $91.4 million, consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, short-term investments, trade receivables, prepaid expenses and other current assets, and contract assets. As of March 31, 2023, our current liabilities were approximately $20.9 million, consisting primarily of accounts payable and accrued liabilities, contract liabilities, and other non-recurring current liabilities. Accordingly, we have sufficient cash and working capital to fund our short-term liquidity requirements. Long-Term Liquidity Requirements We anticipate that our most significant long-term liquidity and capital needs will relate to continued funding of operations, satellite development capital expenditures, launch capital expenditures, and ongoing investments in our Spectra AI platform and internal infrastructure that will enable us to scale the business efficiently and securely. We can manage the timing for a large part of our capital expenditures, including the design, build, and launch of our new satellites currently under development, to provide us with additional flexibility to optimize our long-term liquidity requirements. Macroeconomic conditions and credit markets could also impact the availability and, or, the cost of potential future debt or equity financing. Cash Flow Analysis The following table provides a summary of cash flow data for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, $ 2023 2022 Change (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (16,602) $ (12,676) $ (3,926) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities(1) 10,518 (13,425) 23,943 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 28,867 (3,599) 32,466 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 22,783 (29,700) 52,483 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash beginning of year 37,016 168,104 (131,088) Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash end of period(2) $ 59,799 $ 138,404 $ (78,605) (1) Includes purchase of $11.8 million of short-term investments not categorized as cash (2) $11.8 million of short-term investments are not classified as cash, cash equivalents, or restricted cash. Our short-term liquidity at March 31, 2023 was $71.6 million Operating activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in operating activities was approximately $16.6 million. The contributor to the increase in cash used during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was the increase in cash used for working capital, which was partially offset by the decrease in the operating loss, adjusted for depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation expense, and other non-cash items in the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase in cash used for working capital was the result of delayed cash receipts from our largest customers as we restructured our banking 36 Table of Contents relationships with new and existing financial institutions. The operating loss decrease in the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily due to increased imagery and analytics revenue. Investing activities The net cash provided by investing activities was due to the redemption and maturity of $38.1 million of our short-term investments in corporate debt and governmental securities, partially offset by similar purchases of $11.8 million at a new financial institution. We continue to have significant cash outflows for satellite procurement and launch related services. Cash paid for the procurement of satellites and other launch-related costs increased in the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022 primarily due to the launch of two additional Gen-2 satellites. We also continue to incur labor costs for internally developed capitalized software as we add innovative new services and tools to our Spectra AI platform. Financing activities The most significant impact in the change in cash flows from financing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022 is receipt of the $29.4 million proceeds from our March 2023 private placement of equity and accompanying warrants, of which $17.7 million was allocated to the private placement warrants. In addition, we incurred $0.6 million in payments for deferred offering costs during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes requires management to make judgments, estimates, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Management has based its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For a description of our significant accounting policies see Note 2Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Management believes the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition The recognition and measurement of revenue requires the use of judgments and estimates. Specifically, judgment is used in interpreting complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions and determining when all criteria for revenue recognition have been met. We primarily generate revenue from the sale of imagery, data, software, and analytics, as well as, professional and engineering services. Identifying the contract with customer, identifying the performance obligations contained in a contract, determining transaction price, allocating transaction price, and determining when performance obligations are satisfied can require the application of significant judgment, as further discussed below. 37 Table of Contents Identifying the Performance Obligations in a Contract We execute contracts for a single promise or multiple promises. Specifically, our firm fixed price contracts typically include multiple promises which are accounted for as separate performance obligations. Significant judgment is required in determining performance obligations, and these decisions could change the amount of revenue and profit or loss recorded in each period. Classification of Revenue We classify revenue as imagery and software analytical services, and professional and engineering services in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss based on the predominant attributes of the performance obligations. Determination of and Allocation of Transaction Price Each customer purchase order sets forth the transaction price for the products and services purchased under the arrangement. The Company estimates any variable consideration, and whether the transaction price is constrained, upon execution of each contract. We may adjust the transaction price over time for any estimated constraints that become probable based on service level provisions within some of our customer purchase orders. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we evaluate whether the stated selling prices for the products or services represent their standalone selling prices. When it is necessary to allocate the transaction price to multiple performance obligations, management typically uses the expected cost plus a reasonable profit margin to estimate the standalone selling price of each product or service. We also sell standard products or services with observable standalone revenue transactions. In these situations, the observable standalone revenue transactions are used to determine the standalone selling price. Determination of when Performance Obligations are Satisfied Imagery revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription period or at the point in time the customer receives access to the imagery. Software analytical services revenue derived from data, software, and analytics is recognized from the rendering of analytical and monitoring services over time on a firm-fixed price basis, or at the point in time the customer receives access to an analytic product. Professional and engineering services revenue is generated from both time and materials basis contracts and firm-fixed price service solutions contracts and firm-fixed price long-term engineering and construction contracts. Due to the long-term nature of our engineering and construction contracts, we generally recognize revenue over time using a cost-to-cost measure of progress because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer as we incur costs on the contracts. Under the percentage-of-completion cost-to-cost measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs to complete the performance obligation(s). The estimation of total estimated costs at completion is subject to many variables and requires judgment. We recognize changes in contract estimates on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the changes are identified. Such changes in contract estimates can result in the recognition of revenue in a current period for performance obligations which were satisfied or partially satisfied in a prior period. If at any time, the estimate of contract profitability indicates a probable anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the total loss as and when known. Equity Valuations Equity valuations impact various amounts and accounting conclusions reflected in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, inclusive of the recognition of equity-based compensation and warrant valuations. The following discussion provides additional details regarding the significant estimates, assumptions, and judgments that impacted the determination of the fair values of equity-based compensation awards, warrants, and the common stock that comprise our capital structure. The following discussion also explains why these estimates, assumptions, and judgments could be subject to uncertainties and future variability. Equity-Based Compensation We have equity and equity-based awards available for issuance under our 2021 Equity Incentive Plan ("2021 Plan"), 2014 stock incentive plan, and 2011 stock incentive plan. Awards issued include stock options, restricted 38 Table of Contents stock awards (RSAs), and RSUs. Awards under these Plans were approved by the board of directors, and awards that have been canceled, forfeited, or expired are available for issuance in connection with our 2021 Plan. For purposes of recognizing equity-based compensation related to RSAs, RSUs, and stock options granted to employees, management estimates the grant date fair values of such awards to measure the costs to be recognized for services received. For awards with time-based vesting conditions, we recognize compensation costs based upon the straight-line amortization of the grant date fair value of the awards over the requisite service period. When equity-based compensation awards include a performance condition, no compensation is recognized until the performance condition is deemed probable to occur; we then recognize compensation costs based on the accelerated attribution method, which accounts for awards with discrete vesting dates as if they were a separate award. Stock Option and Class A Common Stock Warrant Valuations We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to value all options and Class A common stock warrants. Estimating the fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires the application of significant assumptions, such as the fair value of our Class A common stock, the estimated term of the options, risk-free interest rates, the expected volatility of the price of our Class A common stock, and an expected dividend yield. Each of these assumptions is subjective, requires significant judgment, and is based upon managements best estimates. If any of these assumptions were to change significantly in the future, equity-based compensation related to future awards may differ significantly, as compared with awards previously granted. We have largely moved towards granting RSUs to the bulk of our employees, for which the grant date fair value is equal to the trading price fair value of the Class A common stock on the date of grant. For stock options, which are primarily granted to certain management employees, we use the following inputs under Black-Scholes as follows: Expected Dividend YieldThe Black-Scholes valuation model requires an expected dividend yield as an input. The dividend yield is based on historical experience and expected future changes. We currently have no plans to pay dividends on our Class A common stock and, accordingly, have assumed no dividend yield upon valuation of our stock options. Expected VolatilityAs there was no observable volatility with respect to our Legacy BlackSky Class A common stock and due to the lack of sufficient history of BlackSky Class A common stock, the expected volatility of our Legacy BlackSky and BlackSky Class A common stock was estimated based upon the historical share price volatility of guideline comparable companies. Risk-free Interest RateThe yield on actively traded, non-inflation indexed U.S. Treasury notes was used to extrapolate an average risk-free interest rate based on the expected term of the underlying grants. Expected TermFor options granted since 2021, as there is not a significant history of option exercises as a public company, we considered the option vesting terms and contractual period, as well as the demographics of the holders, in estimating the expected term. For options granted prior to 2021 when we were a private company, the expected term was the estimated duration to a liquidation event based on a weighted average consideration of the most likely exit prospects for that stage of development. We will continue to review our estimate in the future and adjust it, if necessary, due to changes in our historical exercises. Private Placement Warrants and Sponsor Shares We have classified the private placement warrants issued in October 2019 and March 2023 and Sponsor Shares as long-term liabilities in our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022. The private placement warrants issued in October 2019 and the Sponsor Shares were initially recorded at fair value on the date of the Merger and the private placement warrants issued in March 2023 were recorded at fair value on the date of issuance. The Private Placement Warrants were recorded at fair value using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and the Sponsor Shares were recorded at fair value using a Monte Carlo simulation model. These liabilities are re-measured to fair value at each subsequent reporting date and recorded to gain on derivatives on our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. We will continue to adjust the liability for changes in fair value until the financial instruments are exercised, redeemed, cancelled or released. 39 Table of Contents The fair value models require inputs including, but not limited to, the fair value of our Class A common stock, the risk-free interest rate, expected term, expected dividend yield and expected volatility. The fair value of our Class A common stock is the closing stock price on the NYSE as of the measurement date. The risk-free interest rate assumption is determined by using U.S. Treasury rates for the same period as the expected terms of the financial instruments. The dividend yield assumption is based on the dividends expected to be paid over the expected life of the financial instruments. We have historically been a private company and lacked sufficient company-specific historical and implied volatility information. Therefore, the expected stock volatility includes both BlackSky's Class A common stock and public warrant historical volatility as well as the historical volatility of a publicly traded set of peer companies. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the estimate of the fair value of these instruments and ultimately the change in fair value.