managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations disclosures; being exempt from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; being subject to reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and not being required to hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation or on any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, while we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with any new financial accounting standard until such standard is generally applicable to private companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that are not emerging growth companies or elect not to avail themselves of this provision. We may remain an emerging growth company until as late as December 31, 2026, the fiscal year-end following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, though we may cease to be an emerging growth company earlier under certain circumstances, including if (i) we have more than $1.07 billion in annual revenue in any fiscal year, (ii) we become a large accelerated filer, with at least $700 million of equity securities held by non-affiliates as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year, or (iii) we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period. 28 Table of Contents The exact implications of the JOBS Act are still subject to interpretations and guidance by the SEC and other regulatory agencies, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to take advantage of all of the benefits of the JOBS Act. In addition, investors may find our common stock less attractive to the extent we rely on the exemptions and relief granted by the JOBS Act. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may decline or become more volatile. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. We are required to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until the date we are no longer an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. Accordingly, you will not be able to depend on any attestation concerning our internal control over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm for the foreseeable future. The process of designing and implementing internal controls over financial reporting is time consuming, costly, and complicated. If during the evaluation and testing process, we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or determine that existing material weaknesses have not been remediated, our management will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may conclude that there are material weaknesses with respect to our internal controls or the level at which our internal controls are documented, designed, implemented, or reviewed. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or when required in the future, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the valuation of our common stock could be adversely affected. Compliance with public reporting requirements have and will continue to affect the Companys financial resources. The Company is subject to certain public reporting obligations as required by federal securities laws, regulations and agencies. The compliance with such reporting requirements will require the company to incur significant legal, accounting and other administrative expenses. The expenses the Company may incur will have a significant impact on the Companys financial resources and may lead to a decrease in the value and price of our common stock. We rely on network infrastructure and our ability to maintain and scale our business and maintain competitiveness. Any significant interruptions or delays in service on our apps or websites or any undetected errors or design faults could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the use of information technologies and systems and our reputation and ability to acquire, retain, and serve our customers are dependent upon the reliable performance of our apps and websites and the underlying network infrastructure. As our operations grow, we must continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure while maintaining or improving the reliability and integrity of our infrastructure. Our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our systems and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our solutions in response to competitive services and offerings. We expect the use of alternative platforms such as tablets and smartphones will continue to grow and the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize offerings, services, or strategies for such platforms will require new investment in technology. New developments in other areas, such as cloud computing, have made it easier for competition to enter our markets due to lower up-front technology costs. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. There is also no guarantee that we will possess the financial resources or personnel, for the research, design, and development of new applications or services, or that we will be able to utilize these resources successfully and avoid technological or market obsolescence. Further, there can be no assurance that technological advances by one or more of our competitors or future competitors will not result in our present or future applications and services becoming uncompetitive or obsolete. If we were unable to enhance our offerings and network capabilities to keep pace with rapid technological and regulatory change, or if new technologies emerge that are able to deliver competitive offerings at lower prices, more efficiently, more conveniently, or more securely than our platform offerings, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity Risk Management & Strategy We employ several strategies to identify and to mitigate its cybersecurity risk as a part of it overall risk management strategy. Whereas no entity can be 100% secure against all forms of cyber threats. We strive to identify and minimize the risk where possible. Company management under the direction of its Chief Technology Officer are primarily responsible for identifying risks and adopting appropriate policies with respect to those risks. Third parties may be used to augment company resources in this regard including but not limited to resources provided by the Companys cyber policy insurance carrier. Risks that are specific to the Companys operations include security around the servers and systems that are used to host and run the Blackbox System. These servers including their backups are hosted remotely and monitored throughout the day by both operations and technology personnel. The Company has adopted a comprehensive Cyber Security Policy that encompasses and addresses cyber risks that are more common to many businesses including system access, password policies, third party software and similar matters. Blackbox also carries appropriate insurance for cyber related risks. Governance Overall governance of our cybersecurity is overseen by the Companys full board of directors. No specific committee exists to oversee cybersecurity. Brandon Smith, our Chief Technology Officer, is primarily responsible for managing the Companys cybersecurity risks and related policies. Mr. Smith has over 20 years of experience in technology including software development and infrastructure consulting. In addition to an MBA from Southern Methodist University, Mr. Smith holds a BBA in CIS from Texas State University. Management meets with the board not less than annually to review the companys cybersecurity risks and policies but will meet with the board on an immediate basis if circumstances so dictate. Item 2. Properties. We do not own any real estate or other physical properties. Our principal office is located at 5430 LBJ Freeway, Suite 1485, Dallas, Texas 75240 in office space leased from Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America. During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 we incurred approximately $125,000 and $126,000, respectively, in office rental expense. Future minimum rental payments under the extended lease are approximately $351,903. We believe that the existing facilities will be adequate to meet our operational requirements through 2025. We believe that all such facilities are adequately covered by appropriate property insurance. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. None. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 30 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our Common Stock, $0.001 par value, is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol BLBX. Holders Records of Securities Transfer Corporation, our transfer agent, indicate that as of March 20, 2025, we had 618 record holders of our Common Stock. The number of registered stockholders excludes any estimate by us of the number of beneficial owners of shares of Common Stock held in street name. As of March 20, 2025, we had 3,602,874 shares of our Common Stock issued and outstanding. Dividends We have not declared any dividends on our Common Stock and do not anticipate that we will declare or pay any dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, applicable contractual restrictions, restrictions in our organizational documents, and any other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans The information set forth under the subheading "Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans" included in Part III, Item 12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities The Companys sales of unregistered securities during the period covered by the Report have been previously reported as required in Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and/or current reports on Form 8-K. 31 Table of Contents Item 6. [Reserved] Not required. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the results of financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 should be read in conjunction with our financial statements, and the notes to those financial statements that are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our discussion includes forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors. We use words such as anticipate, estimate, plan, project, continuing, ongoing, expect, believe, intend, may, will, should, could, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Key Events and Recent Developments On March 10, 2025, the Company entered into a Merger Agreement with RABLBX Merger Sub Inc., a Nevada corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (Merger Sub) and REalloys Inc. Upon the terms and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions described in the Merger Agreement, REalloys will merge with and into Merger Sub, Merger Sub will cease to exist and REalloys will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the Merger). At the closing of the Merger (the Closing), the holders of capital stock and outstanding instruments convertible into or exercisable for capital stock of REalloys will receive shares of common and preferred stock of the Company, $0.001 par value, based on an exchange ratio formula in the Merger Agreement (the Exchange Ratio) or as otherwise agreed to in the Merger Agreement, which is subject to adjustment in the event the parties raise capital in excess of certain thresholds. Immediately following Closing, based upon the Exchange Ratio, pre-Closing stockholders of the Company are expected to collectively retain approximately 7.3% of the post-Close aggregate common stock of the Company, par value $0.001 (the Company Common Stock) and holders of REalloys capital stock and instruments convertible into or exercisable for capital stock of the REalloys will receive as merger consideration newly issued shares of Company Common Stock representing approximately 92.7% of the post-Close aggregate as common and preferred stock of the Company. For additional information on the Merger and the transactions contemplated thereby, refer to Recent Developments included in Part I, Item 1 Business, of this Form 10-K. Overview We are a financial technology and social media hybrid platform offering real-time proprietary analytics and news for stock and options traders of all levels. Our web-based software employs predictive technology enhanced by artificial intelligence to find volatility and unusual market activity that may result in the rapid change in the trading price of a stock or option. Our Blackbox System continuously scans the NASDAQ, NYSE, CBOE, and other options markets, analyzing over 10,000 stocks and up to 1,500,000 options contracts multiple times per second. We also provide our users with a fully interactive social media platform that is integrated into our dashboard, enabling our users to exchange information and ideas quickly and efficiently including the ability to broadcast on their own channels to share trading strategies and market insight within the Blackbox community. Subscriptions for the use of the platform are sold on a monthly and/or annual subscription basis to individual consumers through our website 32 Table of Contents Our principal office is located at 5430 LBJ Freeway, Suite 1485, Dallas, Texas 75240 and our telephone number is (972) 726-9203. Our Common Stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol BLBX. Our corporate website is located at https://blackboxstocks.com. Basis of Presentation The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in assumption of the continuation of the Company as a going concern, which is dependent upon the Company's ability to obtain sufficient financing or establish itself as a profitable business. For the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company incurred an operating loss of $3,309,063 and a net loss of $3,471,226 as compared to an operating loss of $5,297,671 and a net loss of $4,664,455 for the year ended December 31, 2023. Cash flows used in operations totaled $1,095,776 for the year ended December 31, 2024. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. On March 10, 2025, the Company entered into a Merger Agreement with its wholly owned Merger Sub and REalloys. Upon the terms and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions described in the Merger Agreement, REalloys will merge with and into Merger Sub, Merger Sub will cease to exist and REalloys will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. At the Closing of the Merger, the holders of capital stock and outstanding instruments convertible into or exercisable for capital stock of REalloys will receive shares of common and preferred stock of the Company, $0.001 par value, based on an Exchange Ratio formula in the Merger Agreement or as otherwise agreed to in the Merger Agreement, which is subject to adjustment in the event the parties raise capital in excess of certain thresholds. Immediately following Closing, based upon the Exchange Ratio, pre-Closing stockholders of the Company are expected to collectively retain approximately 7.3% of the post-Close aggregate Company Common Stock and holders of REalloys capital stock and instruments convertible into or exercisable for capital stock of the REalloys will receive as merger consideration newly issued shares of Company Common Stock representing approximately 92.7% of the post-Close aggregate as common and preferred stock of the Company. The Company believes that REalloys will be able to raise substantial capital and has completed a financing that will provide $5,000,000 upon completion of the Merger. Closing of the Merger is subject to various customary closing conditions including but not limited to the SEC declaring the registration statement effective, approval of REalloys initial listing application by Nasdaq, and stockholder approval. In addition, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement dated with Five Narrow Lane LP, on January 17, 2025 (which was later amended on January 27, 2025 pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue, and Five Narrow Lane LP agreed to purchase, a series of debentures (the Purchase Agreement). The Purchase Agreement provides for financing of up to an aggregate principal amount of $2,300,000 of which $1,050,000 has been received. An additional $750,000 will be funded upon filing of a Merger Registration Statement, and an additional $500,000 will be funded when the Merger Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC. There can be no assurance that the Merger with REalloys will be completed and the related financing will be received. The Company has historically been able to raise capital in order to fund its operations and on January 31, 2025, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 for the sale of up to $50,000,000 of securities. Pursuant to General Instruction I.B.6 of Form S-3, in no event will we sell securities in a primary offering with a value exceeding more than one-third of our public float in any 12-month period so long as our public float remains below $75,000,000. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise any capital or on what terms. The financial statements do not include adjustments relating to the recoverability and realization of assets and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue in operation. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements During the year ended December 31, 2024 and through March 20, 2025, there were several new accounting pronouncements issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Each of these pronouncements, as applicable, has been or will be adopted by the Company. Management does not believe the adoption of any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. All other new accounting pronouncements issued but not yet effective or adopted have been deemed not to be relevant to us, hence are not expected to have any impact once adopted. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The Companys financial statement preparation requires that management make estimates and assumptions which affect the reporting of assets and liabilities and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in order to report these financial statements in conformity with GAAP. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 33 Table of Contents Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement, defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and requires certain disclosures about fair value measurements. In general, fair values of financial instruments are based upon quoted market prices, where available. If such quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that primarily use, as inputs, observable market-based parameters. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value. These adjustments may include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality and the customers creditworthiness, among other things, as well as unobservable parameters. Any such valuation adjustments are applied consistently over time. Derivative Financial Instruments FASB ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement requires bifurcation of certain embedded derivative instruments, and measurement at their fair value for accounting purposes. A holder redemption feature embedded in the Companys notes payable requires bifurcation from its host instrument and is accounted for as a freestanding derivative. Software Development Costs The Company accounts for software development costs pursuant to ASC Topic 985-Software, which requires that the costs incurred for planning, designing, coding and testing of software prior to technological feasibility be recorded as research and development expenses as incurred. Such costs include both internal development and engineering costs as well as development expenses contracted through third parties. Income Taxes The Company will recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the differences are expected to be recovered. The Company provides a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for which it does not consider realization of such assets to be more likely than not. Management evaluates the probability of the realization of its deferred income tax assets. Management determined that because the Company has not yet generated taxable income, it is unlikely that a tax benefit will be realized from these operating loss carry forwards. Accordingly, the deferred income tax asset is offset by a full valuation allowance. In accordance with ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, the Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be capable of withstanding examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. These standards prescribe a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Share-Based Payment All share-based payments to employees, directors and contractors, including grants of stock options, restricted shares or warrants, are recognized in the statement of operations based on their fair values at the time of grant in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation. During the period ended December 31, 2023, the Company calculated the fair value of the options granted based on assumptions used in the Cox-Ross-Rubinstein binomial pricing model using the following inputs: the price of the Companys common stock on the date of issuance; risk-free interest rate ranging from 3.73% to 4.44%, expected volatility ranging from 130% to 140% based on the volatility of the Companys common stock, various exercise prices, and terms of 10 years. No options or warrants were issued by the Company for the year ended December 31, 2024 Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2024, the Company had cash of $17,036. The Company incurred negative cash flow from operations of $(705,725) for the year ended December 31, 2024 as compared to negative cash flow from operations of $(3,166,067) in the prior year. Cash flows used in investing activities excluding marketable securities were $1,100,000 and $2,605 for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and were related primarily to the issuance of a note in 2024 and the purchase of server equipment and office furniture in 2023. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 included the liquidation of $3,213,325 of marketable securities consisting of certain debt funds, and the purchase and sales of marketable securities that was done in a company trading account with less than $100,000 that was used to research and demonstrate certain trading tactics used on our platform. We expect capital expenditures to remain moderate for 2025 in order to maintain our current operations. Cash flows from financing for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $1,346,761 and consisted primarily of $1,200,000 of proceeds from the issuance of common stock and net proceeds from merchant cash advances of $175,783. 34 The Purchase Agreement between the Company and Five Narrow Lane LP provides for financing of up to an aggregate principal amount of $2,300,000 of which $1,050,000 has been received. An additional $750,000 is expected to be funded upon filing of a Merger Registration Statement, and an additional $500,000 will be funded when such Merger Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC. The funds received under the Purchase Agreement will be used (in part) to pay for expenses relating to the Merger Agreement including legal, accounting, filing, financial printing and other fees. There can be no assurance that the Merger with REalloys will be completed and the related financing will be received. Many of the expenses may be incurred even if the Merger with REalloys is not consummated. The company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 for the sale of up to $50,000,000 of securities. Pursuant to General Instruction I.B.6 of Form S-3, in no event will we sell securities in a primary offering with a value exceeding more than one-third of our public float in any 12-month period so long as our public float remains below $75,000,000. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise any capital or on what terms pursuant to the shelf registration statement. As noted above, the Company may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in order to fund its operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to do so or on what terms. Results of Operations Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Companys revenue was $2,566,946 and $3,106,026, respectively. The decrease of $539,080 or 17.4% was driven primarily by a decline in subscribers which we believe was due to a number of factors including an increase in competition from both legitimate competitors and illegitimate competitors. Illegitimate competitors include sites or chat rooms that sell pirated data from companies such as (and including) Blackbox. Our average subscriber count for the year ended December 31, 2024 was 2,998 or 12.1% lower than the year ended December 31, 2023. Average monthly revenue per subscriber was $72.24 per month for the year ended December 31, 2024 as compared to $75.88 for the year ended December 31, 2023. The Company continues to run periodic promotions that offer discounts from our regular monthly subscription of $99.97 and annual subscription price of $959.00. This included a Cyber Monday/Black Friday promotion of a 2-year membership for $1,198 in 2023. Gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $1,129,663 or 44.0% of revenues as compared to gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2023 of $1,439,834 or 46.4% of revenues. The decrease in the gross margin percentage from 2023 to 2024 was due to a slightly lower average revenue per subscriber and poorer fixed cost absorption. The primary costs of operating our platform include data feeds of real time prices from exchanges, news feeds, personnel costs of our moderators as well as general system expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2024, our operating expenses decreased from $6,737,505 in 2023 to $4,438,727 in 2024. This decrease of $2,298,778 or 34.1% was due to substantially lower expenses in most operating areas. Software development expenses declined by $505,776 as 2023 expenses included expenditures related to the release of our mobile application, Stock Nanny. We expect our development expenses in 2025 to remain at their current level. Advertising and marketing expenses declined by $193,528 in 2024 as compared to 2023. 2024 Advertising and marketing expenses of $436,456 declined as we continue to seek higher returns on our digital marketing expenses while social media platforms continue to modify their systems. We expect to spend substantial capital in marketing Stock Nanny once we have raised sufficient funds to do so. Our selling, general and administrative costs decreased by $1,572,095 or 30.6% to $3,568,296 for the year ended December 31, 2024. Lower stock-based compensation accounted for $1,085,400 of the decline while employee and outside consulting compensation also decreased by a combined $454,318. Legal fees increased by $278,614 in 2024 due to costs incurred in connection with the Evtec Share Exchange transaction which was terminated in January 2025. For the year ended December 31, 2024, other expense was $162,163 as compared to other income of $613,216 for the year ended December 31, 2023. The 2024 expense was comprised primarily of financing expense related to merchant cash advances. The year ended December 31, 2023 included other income of $575,000 related to the extension agreement for the Evtec Share Exchange transaction executed with the Evtec Companies. 35 Table of Contents EBITDA (Non-GAAP Financial Measure) We report our financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). However, management believes the presentation of certain non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and that when GAAP financial measures are viewed in conjunction with the non-GAAP financial measures, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of the Companys ongoing operating performance. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for evaluating performance. For all non-GAAP financial measures in this release, we have provided corresponding GAAP financial measures for comparative purposes in the report. EBITDA is defined by us as net income (loss) before interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization expense and certain non-cash items. EBITDA is not a measure of operating performance under GAAP and therefore should not be considered in isolation nor construed as an alternative to operating profit, net income (loss) or cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities, each as determined in accordance with GAAP. Also, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of liquidity. Moreover, since EBITDA is not a measurement determined in accordance with GAAP, and thus is susceptible to varying interpretations and calculations, EBITDA, as presented, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. Reconciliation of net loss to EBITDA Year ended December 31, 2024 2023 Net loss $ (3,471,227 ) $ (4,664,455 ) Adjustments: Interest expense and financing costs 132,571 633 Investment income (348 ) (58,849 ) Depreciation and amortization expense 16,031 43,410 Stock based compensation 368,662 1,454,062 Total Adjustments 516,916 1,439,256 EBITDA $ (2,954,311 ) $ (3,225,199 ) Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.