Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited financial statements and the notes related thereto contained elsewhere in this Annual Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Annual Report including, without limitation, statements under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. When used in this Annual Report, words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend and similar expressions, as they relate to us or the Companys management, identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Companys management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those set forth under Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 15, 2018, for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or other similar Business Combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. In March 2020, the COVID-19 outbreak was declared a National Public Health Emergency that continues to spread throughout the world and has adversely impacted global activity and contributed to significant declines and volatility in financial markets. The outbreak could have a continued material adverse impact on economic and market conditions and trigger a period of global economic slowdown. The rapid development and fluidity of this situation precludes any prediction as to the ultimate material adverse impact of the coronavirus outbreak. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Nevertheless, the outbreak presents uncertainty and risk with respect to the Company and its ability to successfully complete a Business Combination. Recent Developments On February 17, 2021, we entered into a Merger Agreement with Merger Sub and BlackSky, which provides for, among other things, the merger of Merger Sub with and into BlackSky, with BlackSky continuing as the surviving entity (the Merger and, collectively with the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Transactions). The Transactions set forth in the Merger Agreement, including the Merger, will constitute a Business Combination. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the aggregate merger consideration payable to equity holders of BlackSky at closing (the Total Consideration) will be paid in a number of shares of newly-issued Class A common stock of the Company, valued at $10.00 per share (the Company Common Stock), calculated by dividing (x) $925,000,000, plus (a) the aggregate exercise prices that would be paid to BlackSky if all stock options and all warrants outstanding as of immediately prior to the closing were exercised in full, minus (b) any unfunded amount 50 Table of Contents under BlackSkys bridge loan, minus (c) the total consideration payable to shares of BlackSkys Class B common stock, which is equal to the product of (i) the total number of shares of BlackSkys Class B common stock, par value $0.00001 per share, issued and outstanding as of immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger and (ii) an amount in cash equal to $0.00001 by (y) $10.00. Effective as of the effective time of the Merger and by virtue of the Merger, each option to purchase shares of BlackSky Class A Common Stock (each, a BlackSky Stock Option) that is outstanding and unexercised as of immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger will be converted into an option to acquire a number of shares of Company Class A Common Stock equal to the product obtained by multiplying (x) the number of shares of BlackSky Common Stock subject to the applicable BlackSky Stock Option by (y) the Class A Common Exchange Ratio, and will be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable to such BlackSky Stock Option (each an Assumed Company Stock Option). For purposes of the Merger Agreement, the Class A Common Exchange Ratio equals the quotient of (A) the residual Total Consideration after taking into account the preferred series preference amounts, divided by $10.00, divided by (B) the number of participating shares of BlackSky Common Stock on a fully diluted basis. The exercise price per share of each Assumed Company Stock Option will be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the exercise price per share applicable to such BlackSky Stock Option by (y) the Class A Common Exchange Ratio. The Transactions will be consummated subject to the deliverables and provisions as further described in the Merger Agreement. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from inception to December 31, 2020 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, identifying a target for our Business Combination, and activities in connection with the proposed acquisition of BlackSky. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held after the Initial Public Offering. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we had a net loss of $1,340,521, which consists of operating costs of $3,136,234 and provision for income taxes of $1,361, offset by interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $1,793,627 and an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $3,447. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we had net income of $350,893, which consists of interest income on marketable securities held in the trust account of $714,993, offset by an unrealized loss on marketable securities held in our trust account of $6,479, operating costs of $264,346 and a provision for income taxes of $93,275. Liquidity and Capital Resources On November 5, 2019, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 27,500,000 Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $275,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 7,500,000 Private Placement Warrants to our Sponsor at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant, generating gross proceeds of $7,500,000. On November 13, 2019, as a result of the underwriters election to fully exercise their over-allotment option, we consummated the sale of an additional 4,125,000 Units at $10.00 per Unit, and the sale of an additional 825,000 Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant, generating total gross proceeds of $42,075,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option in full and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $316,250,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $18,047,876 in transaction costs, including $6,325,000 of underwriting fees, $11,068,750 of deferred underwriting fees, and $654,126 of other costs in connection with the Initial Public Offering. 51 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $1,397,955. Net loss of $1,340,521 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $1,793,627, an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $3,447 and a deferred income tax provision of $1,361. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $1,738,279 of cash from operating activities. For the year ended December 31, 2019, cash used in operating activities was $286,574. Net income of $350,893 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $714,993, an unrealized loss on marketable securities held in our trust account of $6,479 and a deferred income tax benefit of $1,361. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $72,408 of cash from operating activities. As of December 31, 2020, we had marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $318,041,728 (including approximately $1,792,000 of interest income and unrealized gains) consisting of U.S. treasury bills with a maturity of 185 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. Through December 31, 2020, we withdrew $713,860 of interest earned on the Trust Account to pay for our tax obligations. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less taxes payable), to complete our Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor, an affiliate of the Sponsor, or our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants identical to the Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. As of December 31, 2020, we had cash of $399,516 held outside of the Trust Account and working capital deficit of $1,627,973. Until the consummation of a Business Combination, we will be using the funds not held in the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. Our Sponsor, officers, directors or their affiliates are not under any obligation to advance us funds, or to invest in us. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain additional financing. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, curtailing operations, suspending the pursuit of a potential transaction, and reducing overhead expenses. We cannot provide any assurance that new financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2020. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. 52 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay the Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support. Upon completion of the Business Combination or our liquidation, we will cease paying these monthly fees. In addition, we have an agreement to pay the underwriters a deferred fee of $11,068,750. The deferred fee will become payable to the representatives of the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a business combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Class A Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our Class A common stock subject to possible conversion in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Shares of Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our Class A common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, Class A common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our balance sheets. Net Income Per Common Share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Net income (loss) per common share, basic and diluted for Class A common stock subject to possible redemption is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account, net of applicable taxes, if any, by the weighted average number of shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption outstanding for the period. Net income (loss) per common share, basic and diluted for and non-redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing net loss less income attributable to Class A common stock subject to possible redemption, by the weighted average number of shares of non redeemable common stock outstanding for the period presented. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our financial statements.