Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited financial statements and the related notes for the years ended January 31, 2017 and January 31, 2016 that appear elsewhere in this annual report. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Our audited financial statements are stated in United States Dollars and are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Cash Requirements We estimate our operating expenses and working capital requirements for the twelve month period to be as follows: Estimated Expenses For the Twelve Month Period ending January 31, 2018 Management compensation $ Nil Professional fees $ 60,000 General and administrative $ 150,000 Total $ 210,000 At present, our cash requirements for the next 12 months outweigh the funds available to maintain our operations or development of any future properties. Of the $210,000 that we require for the next 12 months, we had $0 in cash as of January 31, 2017, and a working capital deficit of $277,553. Until we complete another transaction, acquisition or business combination, our cash requirements will be in regards to maintaining our corporate existence, and ensuring compliance with our SEC continuous disclosure obligations, including our financial reporting requirements. In addition, we will require additional capital in order to investigate and conclude any future transaction, acquisition or business combination. In order to improve our liquidity, we plan to pursue additional equity financing from private investors or possibly a registered public offering. We do not currently have any definitive arrangements in place for the completion of any further private placement financings and there is no assurance that we will be successful in completing any further private placement financings. If we are unable to achieve the necessary additional financing, then we plan to reduce the amounts that we spend on our business activities and administrative expenses in order to be within the amount of capital resources that are available to us. 8 Results of Operations for the Years Ended January 31, 2017 and 2016 The following summary of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited financial statements for the years ended January 31, 2017 and 2016. Our operating results for the years ended January 31, 2017 and 2016 are summarized as follows: Year Ended January 31, 2017 2016 Operating Expenses $ 70,195 $ 82,918 Total Other Income/(Expense) $ 1,210 $ Nil Net Loss $ (68,985 ) $ (82,918 ) Revenue We have not earned any revenues since our inception and we do not anticipate earning revenues in the near future. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses for the year ended January 31, 2017 and January 31, 2016 are outlined in the table below: Year Ended January 31, 2017 2016 Management compensation $ Nil $ Nil Professional fees $ 9,662 $ 28,069 General and administrative $ 60,533 $ 54,849 The decrease in operating expenses for the year ended January 31, 2017, compared to the same period in fiscal 2016, was mainly due a decrease in general and administrative fees, offset by a reduction in professional fees. Liquidity and Financial Condition Working Capital At January 31, At January 31, Percentage 2017 2016 Increase/(Decrease) Current Assets $ 1,500 $ Nil 100.00% Current Liabilities $ 279,053 $ 208,568 37.63 % Working Capital $ (277,553 ) $ (208,568 ) 37.63 % Cash Flows At January 31, At January 31, Percentage 2017 2016 Increase/(Decrease) Net cash used in operations $ Nil $ (21,069 ) $ (100.00% ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ Nil $ 19,986 $ (100.00% ) Net cash used in investing activities $ Nil $ Nil $ 0.00% Increase (Decrease) in Cash During the Period $ Nil $ Nil $ 0.00% 9 We had cash in the amount of $Nil as of January 31, 2017 as compared to $Nil as of January 31, 2016. We had a working capital deficit of $277,553 as of January 31, 2017 compared to working capital deficit of $208,568 as of January 31, 2016. Operating Activities Net cash used by operating activities for the year ended January 31, 2017 was $Nil as compared to net cash used in operating activities of $21,069 for the year ended January 31, 2016. The decrease of cash used in operating activities resulted from a Company shareholder directly paying our expenses incurred during the period in the amount of $88,917. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended January 31, 2017 was $Nil as compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $19,986 for the year ended January 31, 2016. We have suffered recurring losses from operations. The continuation of our company is dependent upon our company attaining and maintaining profitable operations and raising additional capital as needed. Future Financings We will require additional funds to implement our growth strategy in our business. These funds may be raised through equity financing, debt financing, or other sources, which may result in further dilution in the equity ownership of our shares. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to us when needed or, if available, that it can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. If we are not able to obtain the additional financing on a timely basis should it be required, or generate significant material revenues from operations, we will not be able to meet our other obligations as they become due and we will be forced to scale down or perhaps even cease our operations. Contractual Obligations As a smaller reporting company, we are not required to provide tabular disclosure obligations. Going Concern We have suffered recurring losses from operations and are dependent on our ability to raise capital from stockholders or other sources to meet our obligations and repay our liabilities arising from normal business operations when they become due. In their report on our audited financial statements for the year ended January 31, 2017, our independent auditors included an explanatory paragraph regarding substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements contain additional note disclosure describing the circumstances that lead to this disclosure by our independent auditors. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to stockholders. 10 Critical Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation The financial statements of our company have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (US GAAP) and are expressed in U.S. dollars, our companys functional currency. Our company has elected a January 31 year end. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with US GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates and assumptions. Significant areas requiring the use of management estimates relate to the expected tax rates for future income tax recoveries and determining the fair values of financial instruments and the carrying value of the resource property. Income Taxes Our company uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statements carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Our company accounts for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing the recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before any part of the benefit of that position may be recognized in the financial statements. Basic and Diluted Loss per Share Basic loss per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if potentially dilutive securities were exercised or converted to common stock. The dilutive effect of options and warrants and their equivalent is computed by application of the treasury stock method and the effect of convertible securities by the if converted method. For the years presented, diluted loss per share is equal to basic loss per share as our company does not have any dilutive securities. Financial Instruments Pursuant to ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, an entity is required to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. ASC 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy based on the level of independent, objective evidence surrounding the inputs used to measure fair value. A financial instruments categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. ASC 820 prioritizes the inputs into three levels that may be used to measure fair value: Level 1 - Level 1 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 - Level 2 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets); or model-derived valuations in which significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. 11 Level 3 - Level 3 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Our companys financial instruments consist principally of cash, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, and amounts due to related parties. We believe that the recorded values of all of our financial instruments approximate their current fair values because of their nature and respective maturity dates or durations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Our company has implemented all new accounting pronouncements that are in effect and that may impact its financial statements and does not believe that there are any other new accounting pronouncements that have been issued that might have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations.