Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Osprey Technology Acquisition Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to Osprey Sponsor II, LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of this Quarterly Report and the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 15, 2018, for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or other similar Business Combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. The issuance of additional shares of our stock in a Business Combination: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors; may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; could cause a change of control if a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Units, common stock and/or warrants. Similarly, if we issue debt securities or otherwise incur significant indebtedness, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a Business Combination are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and we breach any such covenant without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding; 15 Table of Contents our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, our ability to pay expenses, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, and fund other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, and execution of our strategy; and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. In March 2020, the COVID-19 outbreak was declared a National Public Health Emergency that continues to spread throughout the world and has adversely impacted global activity and contributed to significant declines and volatility in financial markets. The outbreak could have a continued material adverse impact on economic and market conditions and trigger a period of global economic slowdown. The rapid development and fluidity of this situation precludes any prediction as to the ultimate material adverse impact of the coronavirus outbreak. Nevertheless, the outbreak presents uncertainty and risk with respect to the Company and its ability to successfully complete a Business Combination. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from June 15, 2018 (inception) through June 30, 2020 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and identifying a target company for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held after the Initial Public Offering. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended June 30, 2020, we had net loss of $114,443, which consists of operating costs of $198,382 and an unrealized loss on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $382,449, offset by interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $435,966 and income tax benefit of $30,422. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, we had net income of $934,511, which consists of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $1,643,832, offset by operating costs of $456,708 and an unrealized loss on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $4,199 and a provision of income taxes of $248,414. For the three months ended June 30, 2019, we had a net loss of $1,019, which consisted of formation and operating costs. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, we had a net loss of $1,820, which consisted of formation and operating costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources On November 5, 2019, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 27,500,000 Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $275,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 7,500,000 Private Placement Warrants to our Sponsor at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant, generating gross proceeds of $7,500,000. On November 13, 2019, as a result of the underwriters election to fully exercise their over-allotment option, we consummated the sale of an additional 4,125,000 Units at $10.00 per Unit, and the sale of an additional 825,000 Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant, generating total gross proceeds of $42,075,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option in full and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $316,250,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $18,047,876 in transaction costs, including $6,325,000 of underwriting fees, $11,068,750 of deferred underwriting fees, and $654,126 of other costs in connection with the Initial Public Offering. 16 Table of Contents For the six months ended June 30, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $664,904. Net income of $934,511 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $1,643,832, an unrealized loss on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $4,199 and a deferred income tax provision of $479. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $39,739 of cash from operating activities. As of June 30, 2020, we had marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $318,314,287 (including approximately $2,064,000 of interest income and unrealized gains) consisting of U.S. treasury bills with a maturity of 185 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. Through June 30, 2020, we withdrew $283,860 of interest earned on the Trust Account to pay for our tax obligations. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less income taxes payable), to complete our Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. As of June 30, 2020, we had cash of $702,567 held outside of the Trust Account. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor, an affiliate of the Sponsor, or our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants identical to the Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. We do not believe we will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our Public Shares upon consummation of our Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our Business Combination. If we are unable to complete our Business Combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following our Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of June 30, 2020. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay the Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support. Upon completion of the Business Combination or our liquidation, we will cease paying these monthly fees. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per unit, or $11,068,750 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will be forfeited by the underwriters solely in the event that we fail to complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. 17 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our condensed balance sheets. Net Loss Per Common Share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Shares of common stock subject to possible redemption which are not currently redeemable and are not redeemable at fair value, have been excluded from the calculation of basic net loss per share since such shares, if redeemed, only participate in their pro rata share of the Trust Account earnings. Our net income is adjusted for the portion of income that is attributable to common stock subject to possible redemption, as these shares only participate in the earnings of the Trust Account and not our income or losses. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements.