ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis presents financial information denominated in millions of dollars which can lead to differences from rounding when compared to similar information contained in the unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes which are primarily denominated in thousands of dollars. Executive Summary We are the leading software provider exclusively dedicated to powering social impact. Serving the nonprofit and education sectors, companies committed to social responsibility and individual change makers, our essential software is built to accelerate impact in fundraising, nonprofit financial management, digital giving, grantmaking, corporate social responsibility and education management. A remote-first company, we have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom, supporting users in 100+ countries. Our revenue is primarily generated from the following sources: (i) charging for the use of our software solutions in cloud and hosted environments; (ii) providing payment and transaction services; and (iii) providing Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content. Business Update Our company has made significant strides over the past several years by executing on our five-point operating plan. We have extended our position as the world's leading provider of software to power social impact through product innovation to better serve the very specific needs of non-profit customers, successfully implemented key revenue initiatives to enhance the predictability of our growth, all while maintaining keen attention to cost management and cash flow. As a result of this work, we have accelerated our revenue growth, significantly improved our profitability, driven sustained EPS growth and generated significant cash flow, which we have used, in part, to fuel a material stock repurchase program, that was recently expanded and replenished to $800 million. The company is approaching another inflection point. In addition to improving our operations and go-to market capabilities, we have successfully addressed and nearly closed the book on many of the challenges the company faced over the past few years, allowing us to now focus primarily on the significant growth and value creation opportunities ahead in the near, mid and long term. We believe Blackbaud is a compelling investment with multiple opportunities for strong stockholder returns. 1.As an industry leader with what we believe is the most comprehensive set of purpose-built and mission critical software and services, we have an inherent ability to penetrate even further into a rich market opportunity; 2.The strength of our financial model allows us to continue to aggressively invest in innovation, which provides great value for our customers and enhances our ability to attract new customers; and 3.We generate strong cash flows and are committed to disciplined, value-maximizing capital returns. We believe that at current valuations, Blackbaud is undervalued, and we plan to be aggressive in the repurchase of our stock to improve stockholder value. Market Opportunity U.S. charitable giving in 2023 was over $500 billion, of which roughly $100 billion was donated, granted and invested through our Blackbaud platforms globally. In our Social Sector, we continue to primarily focus on mid-sized and enterprise non-profits and, as market leader, we continue to see great opportunities to attract new customers as well expand our offerings to our existing customers. We appreciate that our customers have choices, too. For decades, we have enjoyed being the market leader, with 26 Second Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) strong brand recognition and significant breadth and depth of our product capabilities, but we are not relying on the success of our past. Investments in Innovation We continue to invest aggressively in innovation and partner with our developer network through APIs to produce continuous product enhancements throughout our portfolio, including generative AI capabilities, which in turn enable our customers to raise more money while increasing operational efficiencyultimately allowing them to spend more time executing on their charitable missions and less time on administrative tasks. We are a natural choice for new and existing customers alike. The alternative for our customers is a disjointed, competitive landscape where we believe other companies do not offer the combined breadth and depth of our capabilities. These include smaller, mostly disparate point solutions that address only single aspects of the complex, comprehensive technology needs of a nonprofit, or larger horizontal software companies that may lack the depth of nonprofit-specific functionality and often require complex, expensive customization and potentially additional vendors to meet customer needs. Cash Flow Generation During the first six months of 2024, we generated $118.4 million of operating cash flow, an increase of more than 50% compared to the first half of 2023. Our robust cash flow generation gives us confidence to continue investment in a number of critical areas like product innovation and stock repurchases. In March 2024, we announced that we intend to repurchase between 7% and 10% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2023 under our stock repurchase program. During the six months ended June 30, 2024, we repurchased 2,954,211 shares for $262.6 million, representing approximately 5.5% of the Company's common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2023. In addition to our previously announced ASR Transaction, we plan to be aggressive in repurchasing our stock at the current valuations. As previously disclosed, our board of directors reauthorized, expanded and replenished our existing stock repurchase program, raising the total capacity from $500 million to $800 million available for repurchases of our common stock. We believe there is currently no better use of our capital than investing back into the business through product innovation and returning capital to stockholders around these valuation levels. Second Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Financial Summary Total revenue ($M) Income (Loss) from operations ($M) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Total revenue increased by $16.2 million and $33.7 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2023, driven largely by the following: + Growth in recurring revenue primarily related to: increases in contractual recurring revenue of $12.3 million and $25.6 million, respectively, related to the impact of our modernized contract initiative and pricing within the Social Sector as well as the performance of our cloud solutions; partially offset by decreases in revenue from EVERFI and maintenance revenue; increases in transactional recurring revenue of $6.7 million and $12.2 million, respectively, primarily due to positive results related to pricing initiatives we have implemented in the past twelve months and increases in volume for our JustGiving, Blackbaud Merchant Services and Blackbaud Tuition Management solutions. - Decreases in one-time service and other revenue primarily related to: decreases in one-time consulting revenue of $2.4 million and $3.4 million, respectively, primarily due to decreases of $1.9 million and $2.5 million, respectively, resulting from our sale of EVERFI Limited as discussed in Note 3 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report and less sales of implementation and customization services. Also contributing to the decrease in one-time consulting revenue is an increase in utilization of third-party service delivery partners. For several years, we have been strategically shifting away from a one-time services business model towards sales of retained and managed services and also embedding services in our renewable cloud solution contracts. Retained and managed services contracts that we expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, and embedded services are recorded as recurring revenue. As previously disclosed and discussed above, we have a number of multi-year pricing initiatives underway, some to bring our pricing in line with the market while others are model changes that are expected to drive greater revenue for both us and our customers. Excluding the impact from our sale of EVERFI Limited in the first quarter of 2024, we expect that the decline in our non-strategic one-time services and other revenue will slow in 2024 compared to the previous two years. 28 Second Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Our Social Sector revenue (which represents approximately 88% of our total year-to-date revenue) increased $19.8 million, or 8.5%, and $39.3 million, or 8.6%, respectively, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, when compared to the same periods in 2023, driven primarily by the increases in contractual recurring revenue and transactional recurring revenue discussed above. The Social Sector has proven to be very resilient as demonstrated through the last several economic downturns and the COVID-19 pandemic, and we have great confidence in the long-term trajectory of this portion of our business. Our Corporate Sector revenue (which represents approximately 12% of our total year-to-date revenue) decreased $3.5 million, or 9.2%, and $5.6 million, or 7.4%, respectively, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, when compared to the same periods in 2023, driven primarily by the performance of EVERFI and our disposition of EVERFI Limited in March 2024 (see Note 3 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information). EVERFI has unique and valuable assets, including a comprehensive catalog of content, great customer relationships and a deep talent pool. However, EVERFI has faced a number of external challenges and while we have taken decisive actions, including changes to Corporate Sector leadership and the disposition of a non-recurring revenue component (EVERFI Limited discussed above), EVERFI continues to be a drag on our overall performance, and we expect that to continue. Accordingly, we are actively considering a range of strategic alternatives for EVERFI, one of which includes a potential divestiture of the business. This work is in early stages, and EVERFI remains well positioned to support its customers. We will continue to provide updates as progress is made on this initiative. Second Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Income from operations increased by $41.8 million and $62.5 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2023, driven largely by the following: + Decreases in Security Incident-related expenses of $25.0 million and $32.4 million, respectively. See "Security Incident update" below. + Increases in total revenue, as described above + Decreases in stock-based compensation expense of $9.1 million and $5.4 million, respectively, primarily due to overall Company performance against targets for certain performance-based equity awards, and a decrease in the grant date fair value of equity award grants + Decrease in employee severance costs of $5.0 million, during the six months ended June 30, 2024, primarily due to prior period targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and the first quarter of 2023 + Decreases in commission expense of $3.1 million and $6.5 million, respectively, due to fewer sales headcount and a prospective increase in the period of benefit over which we amortized costs of obtaining contracts with customers from 5 to 6 years beginning in the year ending December 31, 2024 + Decrease in corporate costs of $2.3 million, during the six months ended June 30, 2024, primarily related to the release of certain accrued tax liabilities due to favorable sales tax rulings and a decrease in bad debt expense - Increases in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $3.2 million and $4.9 million, respectively, primarily related to the noncash impairment charges against certain operating lease right-of-use assets and property and equipment assets resulting from the sublease of our Washington, DC office location and the disposition of EVERFI Limited; see Note 5 and Note 3, respectively, to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information. These increases were partially offset by the release of $1.4 million in accrued contingent consideration related to our Kilter acquisition as discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on From 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 - Increases in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $2.3 million and $2.9 million, respectively, primarily due to an increase in resources dedicated to our cybersecurity program - Decrease of $2.3 million, during the six months ended June 30, 2024, due to an increase in amortization of capitalized software and content development costs and a decrease in software and content development costs that were required to be capitalized under the internal-use software guidance - Increases in third-party contractor costs of $2.1 million and $2.8 million, respectively, largely related to enhancements to our cybersecurity program - Increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.6 million and $3.3 million, respectively, due to our acquisition of EVERFI. Most of the acquired intangible assets are amortized on a curve that represents the expected period of economic benefit. - Increases in transaction-based costs of $1.2 million and $2.7 million, respectively, related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments and, to a lesser extent, increases in vendor rates - Increases in advertising costs of $1.0 million and $3.0 million, respectively, primarily due to timing differences compared to 2023 and, to a lesser extent, increased digital marketing spend to drive fundraising page creation for JustGiving - Increases in hosting and data center costs of $1.0 million and $2.3 million, respectively, as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security; currently, we expect our cloud infrastructure migration efforts and increased level of cybersecurity investments to continue for the foreseeable future We are continuing to make critical investments in the business in areas such as innovation, cybersecurity, and our continued shift of cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers. Our profitability during the first half of 2024 reflects some of these incremental investments. We continuously seek opportunities to optimize our portfolio of solutions to focus time and resources on innovation that will have the greatest impact for our customers and the markets we serve, and drive the highest return on investment. To that end, we will continue to simplify and rationalize our portfolio through product sunsets and divestitures of non-core businesses and technologies. 30 Second Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) As a remote-first workforce company, we also continuously evaluate opportunities to shift various business units or functions to lower-cost jurisdictions, including internationally, and may do so if and when we determine that it would reduce costs without negatively impacting the quality of our products and services. Gross dollar retention Our recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception. A key factor to our overall success is the renewal and expansion of our existing subscription agreements with our customers. Management uses gross dollar retention in analyzing our success at delighting our customers with innovative and cloud solutions. Gross dollar retention is defined as contracted annual recurring revenue ("CARR") divided by beginning CARR with a measurement period of twelve months. For the twelve months ended June 30, 2024, our gross dollar retention was approximately 90%. This gross dollar retention rate was consistent with our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2023. We are continually investing in innovation, which we believe will increase gross dollar retention over the long-term. Balance sheet and cash flow At June 30, 2024, our cash and cash equivalents were $30.4 million. Under the 2024 Credit Facilities, the carrying amount of our debt was $963.6 million and our net leverage ratio was 2.51 to 1.00. During the six months ended June 30, 2024, we generated $118.4 million in cash from operations, had a net increase in borrowings of $244.9 million, returned $262.6 million to stockholders by way of share repurchases and had aggregate cash outlays of $34.5 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software and content development costs. Security Incident update As discussed in Note 9 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report, total costs related to the Security Incident exceeded the limit of our insurance coverage in the first quarter of 2022. Accordingly, the Security Incident has negatively impacted, and we expect it to continue for the foreseeable future to negatively impact, our GAAP profitability and GAAP cash flow (see discussion regarding non-GAAP free cash flow and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow on page 43). For the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, we incurred net pre-tax expenses of $1.8 million and $12.1 million, respectively, related to the Security Incident, which included $1.8 million and $5.1 million, respectively, for ongoing legal fees and additional accruals for loss contingencies of $0.0 million and $7.0 million, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2024, we had cash outlays of $5.8 million related to the Security Incident for ongoing legal fees. In line with our policy, legal fees are expensed as incurred. For full year 2024, we currently expect pre-tax expenses of approximately $5.0 million to $10.0 million and cash outlays of approximately $8.0 million to $13.0 million for ongoing legal fees related to the Security Incident. Not included in these ranges are our previous settlements or current accruals for loss contingencies related to the matters discussed below. As of June 30, 2024, we have recorded approximately $8.5 million in aggregate liabilities for loss contingencies, which included $6.8 million for our settlement with the Attorney General of the State of California on June 13, 2024 that we paid in the third quarter of 2024, and other accruals based primarily on recent negotiations with certain customers related to the Security Incident that we believed we could reasonably estimate in accordance with our loss contingency procedures described above and as more fully described in Note 9. It is reasonably possible that our estimated actual losses may change in the near term for those matters and be materially in excess of the amounts accrued, but we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible additional loss. Second Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q 31 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) There are other Security Incident-related matters, including customer claims, customer constituent class actions and governmental investigations, for which we have not recorded a liability for a loss contingency as of June 30, 2024 because we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss. Each of these matters could, separately or in the aggregate, result in an adverse judgment, settlement, fine, penalty or other resolution, the amount, scope and timing of which we are currently unable to predict, but could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Results of Operations Comparison of the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 Revenue and Cost of Revenue Recurring Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Recurring revenue includes two components: contractual recurring and transactional recurring. Contractual recurring revenue is primarily comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud solutions, Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content, online training programs and subscription-based analytic services. Contractual recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions. Transactional recurring revenue is comprised of transaction fees associated with the use of our solutions, including donation processing, tuition management, consumer giving and event-based usage. 32 Second Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Cost of recurring revenue is primarily comprised of compensation costs for customer support and production IT personnel, hosting and data center costs, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty and data expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations, amortization of software development costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services including remittances of amounts due to third-parties and other costs incurred in providing support and recurring services to our customers. Our customers continue to prefer cloud subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth. Recurring revenue increased by $19.0 million, or 7.2%, and $37.8 million, or 7.3%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2023, driven primarily by the following: + Increases in contractual recurring revenue of $12.3 million and $25.6 million, respectively, related to the impact of our modernized contract initiative and pricing within the Social Sector as well as the performance of our cloud solutions; partially offset by decreases in revenue from EVERFI (as discussed above) and maintenance revenue; + Increases in transactional recurring revenue of $6.7 million and $12.2 million, respectively, primarily due to positive results related to pricing initiatives we have implemented in the past twelve months and increases in volume for our JustGiving, Blackbaud Merchant Services and Blackbaud Tuition Management solutions. Cost of recurring revenue increased by $5.9 million, or 5.2%, and $10.6 million, or 4.6%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2023, driven primarily by the following: + Increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.5 million and $3.1 million, respectively, primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI in December 2021. Most of the acquired intangible assets are amortized on a curve that represents the expected period of economic benefit. + Increases in third-party contractor costs of $1.2 million and $1.8 million, respectively, largely related to enhancements to our cybersecurity program + Increases in transaction-based costs of $1.1 million and $2.6 million, respectively, related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments and, to a lesser extent, increases in vendor rates + Increases in hosting and data center costs of $1.0 million and $2.3 million, respectively, as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security; currently, we expect our cloud infrastructure migration efforts and increased level of cybersecurity investments to continue for the foreseeable future Recurring gross margin increased by 80 basis points and 110 basis points for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2023, primarily due to the increases in recurring revenue outpacing the increases in cost of recurring revenue. Second Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q 33 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) One-time services and other Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, and fees for retained and managed services contracts that we do not expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts. Cost of one-time services and other is primarily comprised of compensation costs for professional services and onsite training personnel, other costs incurred in providing onsite customer training, third-party contractor expenses, data expense incurred to perform one-time analytic services, third-party software royalties, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations. One-time services and other revenue decreased by $2.7 million, or 31.7%, and $4.0 million, or 22.7%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2023, driven primarily by the following: - Decreases in one-time consulting revenue of $2.4 million and $3.4 million, respectively, primarily due to decreases of $1.9 million and $2.5 million, respectively, resulting from our sale of EVERFI Limited as discussed in Note 3 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report and less sales of implementation and customization services. Also contributing to the decrease in one-time consulting revenue is an increase in utilization of third-party service delivery partners. For several years, we have been strategically shifting away from a one-time services business model towards sales of retained and managed services and also embedding services in our renewable cloud solution contracts. Retained and managed services contracts that we expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, and embedded services are recorded as recurring revenue. 34 Second Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Cost of one-time services and other decreased by $2.7 million, or 35.2%, and $4.3 million, or 26.3%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2023, driven primarily by the following: - Decreases in compensation costs of $1.5 million and $2.7 million, respectively, primarily related to our sale of EVERFI Limited as discussed above and a continued shift in resources historically supporting one-time services and other towards recurring revenue - Decreases in direct costs of revenue of $0.8 million and $0.9 million, respectively, primarily due to our sale of EVERFI Limited as discussed above One-time services and other gross margin increased by 450 basis points and 420 basis points during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2023, primarily due to the decrease in compensation costs discussed above outpacing the decrease of one-time services and other revenue. Operating Expenses Sales, marketing and customer success ($M) Research and development ($M) General and administrative ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue Sales, marketing and customer success Sales, marketing and customer success expense includes compensation costs, variable sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs, variable reseller commissions and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We see a large market opportunity in the long-term and will continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness. We have also implemented software tools to enhance our digital footprint and drive lead generation. The enhancements we are making in our go-to-market approach are expected to reduce our average customer acquisition cost per customer as well as the related payback period while increasing sales velocity. Second Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q 35 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Sales, marketing and customer success expense decreased by $6.1 million, or 11.5%, and $9.6 million or 9.0%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2023. The decreases in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue were primarily driven by the following: - Decreases in compensation costs of $3.4 million and $3.8 million, respectively, primarily related to our prior period targeted workforce reductions - Decreases in commissions expense of $3.2 million and $6.7 million, respectively, due to fewer sales headcount and a prospective increase in the period of benefit over which we amortized costs of obtaining contracts with customers from 5 to 6 years beginning in the year ending December 31, 2024 - Decrease in severance costs of $2.1 million, during the six months ended June 30, 2024, related to our prior period targeted workforce reductions + Increases in advertising costs of $1.0 million and $3.0 million, respectively, primarily due to timing differences compared to 2023 and, to a lesser extent, increased digital marketing spend to drive fundraising page creation for JustGiving Research and development Research and development expense includes compensation costs for engineering and product management personnel, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new solutions or upgrading and enhancing existing solutions that do not qualify for capitalization, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We continue to make investments to delight our customers with innovative and secure cloud solutions. Research and development expenses increased by $2.9 million, or 8.1%, and $5.1 million or 6.7%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2023, primarily driven by the following: + Increase in compensation costs of $2.7 million, during the six months ended June 30, 2024, primarily related to an increase in resources dedicated to the security-related compliance of our solutions + Increases in third-party contractor costs of $1.4 million and $1.3 million, respectively, largely related to enhancements to our cybersecurity program + Decrease in software development costs of $1.1 million, during the six months ended June 30, 2024, that were required to be capitalized under GAAP Not included in research and development expense for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 were $14.8 million and $15.4 million, respectively, and for the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 were $28.5 million and $29.6 million, respectively, of qualifying costs associated with software and content development activities that are required to be capitalized under GAAP, such as those for our cloud solutions, as well as development costs associated with acquired companies. Qualifying capitalized development costs associated with our cloud solutions are subsequently amortized to cost of recurring revenue over the related assets' estimated useful life, which generally range from three to seven years. We expect that the amount of software and content development costs capitalized will be relatively consistent in the near-term as we continue making investments in innovation, quality, security and the integration of our solutions, which we believe will drive long-term revenue growth. General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, Security Incident-related expenses (including legal fees, settlements and loss contingency accruals), third-party professional fees, insurance, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses. 36 Second Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) General and administrative expense decreased by $25.7 million, or 43.5%, and $30.8 million, or 27.5%, three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2023. The decreases in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue were primarily driven by the following: - Decreases in Security Incident-related expenses of $25.0 million and $32.4 million, respectively. See "Security Incident update" on page 31 - Decrease in stock-based compensation costs of $3.8 million, during the three months ended June 30, 2024, primarily due to estimated overall Company performance against 2024 goals for certain performance-based equity awards - Decrease in corporate costs of $2.4 million, during the six months ended June 30, 2024, primarily related to the release of certain accrued tax liabilities due to favorable sales tax rulings and a decrease in bad debt expense - Decreases in rent expense, net of allocated costs, of $1.7 million and $2.6 million, respectively + Increases in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $3.2 million and $4.9 million, respectively, primarily related to the noncash impairment charges against certain operating lease right-of-use assets and property and equipment assets resulting from the sublease of our Washington, DC office location and the disposition of EVERFI Limited; see Note 5 and Note 3 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information. These increases were partially offset by the release of $1.4 million in accrued contingent consideration related to our Kilter acquisition as discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on From 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 + Increases in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $1.5 million and $2.5 million, respectively, primarily due to an increase in resources dedicated to our cybersecurity program Interest Expense Interest expense ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue The increases in interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, when compared to the same periods in 2023, were primarily due to our incremental borrowings to fund our ASR Transaction. We currently expect interest expense for the full year 2024 to be approximately $52 million to $56 million. Our interest expense in connection with the variable rate portion of our outstanding debt could increase in a rising interest rate environment. See Note 8 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information regarding our derivative instruments, which we use to manage our variable interest rate risk, and