ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis presents financial information denominated in millions of dollars which can lead to differences from rounding when compared to similar information contained in the unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes which are primarily denominated in thousands of dollars. Executive Summary We are the leading software provider exclusively dedicated to powering social impact. Serving the nonprofit and education sectors, companies committed to social responsibility and individual change makers, our essential software is built to accelerate impact in fundraising, nonprofit financial management, digital giving, grantmaking, corporate social responsibility and education management. A remote-first company, we have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom, supporting users in 100+ countries. Our revenue is primarily generated from the following sources: (i) charging for the use of our software solutions in cloud and hosted environments; (ii) providing payment and transactional services; (iii) providing Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content; (iv) providing software maintenance and support services; and (v) providing professional services, including implementation, consulting, training, analytic and other services. Update on Five Key Operational Initiatives 1 Product Innovation and Delivery 2 Bookings Growth and Acceleration 3 Transactional Revenue Optimization and Expansion 4 Modernized Approach to Pricing and Multi-Year Customer Contracts 5 Keen Attention to Cost Management 1.Product Innovation and Delivery Product is core at Blackbaud, and we strive to bring increased value to our customers through their software subscriptions with improved and innovative capabilities. For example, we recently released a new, next generation donation form in Raisers Edge NXT with the goal of increasing the conversion rate and donations our customers raise. We match the new donation form with Prospect Insights, which utilizes artificial intelligence ("AI") to identify and qualify candidates for major gifts. For years, we have been using AI-enabled capabilities in our analytics offerings. We are expanding our strategy into next-generation and generative AI technology that addresses specific challenges of our customers. As recently announced, we will be rolling out an extensive new set of capabilities across our product portfolio over upcoming quarters, including: AI for Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Fundraisers: Enabling P2P participants to use Generative AI-based features to make sharing their own story easier and more effective for their fundraiser. AI for Online Giving: Providing a personalized experience to online donors through predictive AI capabilities. AI for Major Giving Officers: Expanding Prospect Insights to include AI-driven insights into planned and major giving vehicles and likelihood. AI for Donor Stewardship: Enabling organizations to automate the creation of key donor stewardship documents such as thank you notes through a built-in Generative AI experience. 24 Second Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) AI for Educators: Assisting teachers with personalized, AI-driven content that has appropriate guardrails to drive more classroom engagement. AI for School Administrators: Leveraging AI to automate review and recommendations for financial aid submissions. AI for Corporate Impact: Empowering Corporate Social Responsibility teams to capture, visualize and tell the story of their corporate social impact missions through inclusion of modern AI services. 2.Bookings Growth and Acceleration We drove strong bookings performance in the first quarter, up significantly versus last year, led by our corporate sector (YourCause and EVERFI solutions) which more than doubled its bookings over the first quarter of 2022. We signed several notable large contracts during the second quarter. As previously disclosed, there can be volatility quarter-to-quarter on bookings. 3.Transactional Revenue Optimization and Expansion Transactional revenue, which is about one-third of total revenue, has proven to be resilient so far in 2023 following the lower average donation sizes we experienced during the fourth quarter of 2022. A rate increase on Blackbaud Merchant Services in the U.S. took effect on August 1, 2023, which is incremental to the January 2023 rate change previously disclosed. Our Blackbaud Tuition Management and JustGiving platforms continue to perform well against plan. And as we look ahead, our teams are hard at work to drive innovation across our payments solutions that are a win-win for both our customers and Blackbaud. We have already introduced our two fee cover models, and we are also looking at ways to optimize our payments solutions to drive a better donor experience. 4.Modernized Approach to Pricing and Multi-Year Contracts Last summer, we put in place an updated pricing policy primarily for our social sector customers that directly reflects the value we provide to them, is in-line with the broader market and reflects the inflationary pressures that all businesses are facing. In November 2022, we started notifying customers with a March 2023 contract renewal that we would be making important contract changes. First, we are offering 3-year contract renewal terms as our standard, replacing one-year renewal terms. This process was already being implemented outside of the pricing changes. Second, we are implementing a more significant rate increase on the 1-year renewal option versus the 3-year renewal option. And third, the 3-year renewal option includes annual rate increases. Our 3-year renewal options did not historically include annual rate increases. These efforts are well on their way. We have already notified customers with December 2023 contract renewals of the new terms. Through July 2023, nearly 70% of our 2023 contracts eligible for renewal rate increases have already renewed. The close day-to-day management of renewals, the mix of 3-year and 1-year contracts, and the impact of pricing are progressing well, and we expect more impact from the compounding effect of these rate increases over time as we layer in future year contract renewals and annual rate increases. For example, over 50% of our planned 2023 revenue will renew in a little over 3 years and approximately 35% of that renewable base is expected to renew this year. These contracts are renewing every day and create revenue growth that we expect to accelerate with each successive quarter this year. We expect that to lead to an even greater impact in 2024, 2025 and beyond as we begin to see the full-year impact of the rate increases. Approximately 30% of the renewable base is up for renewal in 2024 and more than 20% in 2025. The adoption of 3-year renewals as a standard, with more customers opting for this option than we originally expected, are expected to have an added benefit of higher retention which provides greater revenue assurance and predictability. Looking even further ahead, the cycle starts fresh in 2026 as the 2023 signed contracts will begin to renew. We expect that this will be a sustainable and meaningful revenue growth stream for us. 5.Keen Attention to Cost Management We closed four legacy data centers during 2022, and we plan to close more this year. We renegotiated key vendor contracts including Microsoft Azure and AWS and made the difficult decision to further reduce our staff in the first quarter. Because we have organized to achieve much better scale efficiencies, we have significantly reduced our headcount since the third quarter of 2022. Our goal is to run the business at about this headcount level for the foreseeable future, such that our revenue growth will better drive margin acceleration. Second Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 25 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Financial Summary Total revenue ($M) Income (Loss) from operations ($M) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Total revenue increased by $6.1 million and $10.7 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, driven largely by the following: + Growth in recurring revenue primarily related to: increases in transactional recurring revenue of $6.0 million and $11.0 million, respectively, primarily due to increases in volume for our Blackbaud Tuition Management and JustGiving solutions and positive results related to a pricing initiative we implemented at the beginning of 2023; also offsetting the increases in transactional recurring revenue were decreases related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.6 million and $2.2 million, respectively; and increases in contractual recurring revenue of $3.9 million and $7.0 million, respectively, related to the performance of our cloud solutions and, to a lesser extent, the early impact of our pricing initiatives; partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue as customers migrate to our cloud solutions; also offsetting the increases in contractual recurring revenue were decreases related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.3 million and $1.1 million, respectively - Decreases in one-time service and other revenue primarily related to: decreases in one-time consulting revenue due primarily to less sales of creative services and implementation and customization services, in line with our multi-year strategic shift from a license-based and one-time services business model to a cloud subscription business model, which generally requires less implementation and customization services; and decreases in one-time analytics revenue as analytics are generally integrated in our cloud solutions For additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results, see Foreign Currency Exchange Rates below on page 47. 26 Second Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) We have a number of multi-year pricing initiatives underway, some to bring our pricing in line with the market while others are model changes that are expected to drive greater revenue for both us and our customers. As a result, we expect to see an acceleration in growth in the second half of 2023 when compared to the first half of the year as we begin to see the full-year effect of some of these pricing initiatives. We expect that the one-time services and other revenue will continue to significantly decrease during 2023 compared to 2022 driven by our continued migration to the cloud in our core business. Income from operations increased by $0.2 million during the three months ended June 30, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, driven largely by the following: + Decreases in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $10.1 million and commission expense of $0.8 million due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed below + Increase in total revenue, as described above + Decrease in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $3.1 million primarily related to the release of $1.4 million in accrued contingent consideration related to our Kilter acquisition during the three months ended June 30, 2023 and a $2.0 million noncash impairment of certain insignificant intangible assets that were held for sale during the three months ended June 30, 2022 which did not reoccur in the comparable 2023 period + A $2.3 million noncash impairment charge during the three months ended June 30, 2022 against previously capitalized software development costs that reduced the carrying value of those assets to zero. The impairment charge resulted primarily from our decision to end customer support for certain solutions and did not reoccur in 2023 + Decrease in third-party contractor costs of $1.8 million primarily due to a decrease in our use of third-party software developers + Decrease in hosting and data center costs of $1.5 million as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security; currently, we expect our cloud infrastructure migration efforts and increased level of cybersecurity investments to continue for the foreseeable future + Decrease in other corporate costs of $1.2 million primarily related to the release of certain accrued tax liabilities due to favorable sales tax rulings + Net decrease of $0.9 million primarily related to a decrease in rent and utilities, partially offset by higher third-party software costs due to the number of licenses needed and also price increases for the software being used - Increase in Security Incident-related expenses of $18.4 million. See "Security Incident update" below. - Increase in stock-based compensation expense of $5.5 million primarily due to estimated overall Company performance against 2023 goals, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and first quarter of 2023 - Increase in transaction-based costs of $1.2 million related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments and, to a lesser extent, increases in vendor rates - Increase in advertising costs of $1.1 million - Net decrease of $0.8 million due to an increase in amortization of capitalized software and content development costs, partially offset by an increase in software and content development costs that were required to be capitalized under the internal-use software guidance - Increase in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $0.7 million due to our acquisition of EVERFI Second Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Income from operations decreased by $3.7 million during the six months ended June 30, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, driven largely by the following: - Increase in Security Incident-related expenses of $29.0 million. See "Security Incident update" below. - Increase in stock-based compensation expense of $7.6 million primarily due to 2022 performance-based equity award adjustments and estimated overall Company performance against 2023 goals, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and first quarter of 2023 - Increase in transaction-based costs of $3.3 million related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments and, to a lesser extent, increases in vendor rates - Net decrease of $1.7 million due to an increase in amortization of capitalized software and content development costs, partially offset by an increase in software and content development costs that were required to be capitalized under the internal-use software guidance - Increase in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.3 million due to our acquisition of EVERFI - Net increase of $1.0 million primarily related to higher third-party software costs due to the number of licenses needed and also price increases for the software being used, partially offset by a decrease in rent and utilities + Decreases in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $17.8 million and commission expense of $1.5 million, partially offset by a corresponding increase in severance costs of $4.5 million due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed below + Increase in total revenue, as described above + Decrease in third-party contractor costs of $3.7 million primarily due to a decrease in our use of third-party software developers + Decrease in hosting and data center costs of $3.6 million as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security; currently, we expect our cloud infrastructure migration efforts and increased level of cybersecurity investments to continue for the foreseeable future + Decrease in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $3.5 million primarily related to the release of $1.4 million in accrued contingent consideration related to our Kilter acquisition during the six months ended June 30, 2023 and a $2.0 million noncash impairment of certain insignificant intangible assets that were held for sale during the three months ended June 30, 2022 which did not reoccur in the comparable 2023 period + A $2.3 million noncash impairment charge during the six months ended June 30, 2022 against previously capitalized software development costs that reduced the carrying value of those assets to zero. The impairment charge resulted primarily from our decision to end customer support for certain solutions + Decrease in other corporate costs of $1.6 million primarily related to the release of certain accrued tax liabilities due to favorable sales tax rulings We are continuing to make critical investments in the business in areas such as digital marketing, innovation, cybersecurity, customer success and our continued shift of cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers. Our profitability during the first half of 2023 reflects some of these incremental investments. In the second half of 2023, we expect our financial performance to improve each quarter as our pricing and cost initiatives continue to take hold. We continuously seek opportunities to optimize our portfolio of solutions to focus time and resources on innovation that will have the greatest impact for our customers and the markets we serve, and drive the highest return on investment. To that end, we will continue to simplify and rationalize our portfolio through product sunsets and divestitures of non-core businesses and technologies. 28 Second Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Gross dollar retention Our recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception. We have been for several years successfully shifting our legacy customer base away from annual renewals and moving them onto multi-year renewal contracts. A key factor to our overall success is the renewal and expansion of our existing subscription agreements with our customers. Management uses gross dollar retention in analyzing our success at delighting our customers with innovative and cloud solutions. Gross dollar retention is defined as contracted annual recurring revenue ("CARR") divided by beginning CARR with a measurement period of twelve months. For the twelve months ended June 30, 2023, our gross dollar retention was approximately 90%. This gross dollar retention rate is relatively consistent with our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2022. We are continually investing in innovation, which we believe will increase gross dollar retention over the long-term. Although some customer attrition is normal, our new contract pricing and renewal model (as described above on page 24) does not appear to have had a significant impact on customer attrition to date. Balance sheet and cash flow At June 30, 2023, our cash and cash equivalents were $29.0 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2020 Credit Facility was $786.8 million. Our net leverage ratio was 2.67 to 1.00. During the six months ended June 30, 2023, we generated $75.0 million in cash from operations, had a net decrease in borrowings of $13.8 million, and had aggregate cash outlays of $31.5 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software and content development costs. Security Incident update As discussed in Note 8 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report, total costs related to the Security Incident exceeded the limit of our insurance coverage in the first quarter of 2022. Accordingly, the Security Incident has negatively impacted, and we expect it to continue for the foreseeable future to negatively impact, our GAAP profitability and GAAP cash flow (see discussion regarding non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow on page 42). For the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, we incurred net pre-tax expenses of $26.8 million and $44.6 million, respectively, related to the Security Incident, which included $7.0 million and $14.6 million, respectively, for ongoing legal fees and additional accruals for loss contingencies of $19.8 million and $30.0 million, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2023, we had net cash outlays of $15.8 million related to the Security Incident, which included ongoing legal fees and the $3.0 million civil penalty paid during the first quarter of 2023 related to the SEC settlement (as discussed in Note 8). In line with our policy, legal fees are expensed as incurred. For full year 2023, we currently expect net pre-tax expense of approximately $20.0 million to $30.0 million and net cash outlays of approximately $25.0 million to $35.0 million for ongoing legal fees related to the Security Incident. Not included in these ranges are our previous settlements or current accruals for loss contingencies related to the matters discussed below. As of June 30, 2023, we have recorded approximately $50.0 million in aggregate liabilities for loss contingencies based primarily on recent negotiations with certain governmental agencies related to the Security Incident that we believe we can reasonably estimate in accordance with our loss contingency procedures described in Note 8. It is reasonably possible that our estimated or actual losses may change in the near term for those matters and be materially in excess of the amounts accrued, but we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible additional loss. Second Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) There are other Security Incident-related matters, including customer claims, customer constituent class actions and governmental investigations, for which we have not recorded a liability for a loss contingency as of June 30, 2023 because we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss. Each of these matters could, separately or in the aggregate, result in an adverse judgment, settlement, fine, penalty or other resolution, the amount, scope and timing of which we are currently unable to predict, but could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Fixed asset impairment On July 31, 2023, we entered into a sublease for a portion of our Washington, DC office location, which we previously closed in February 2023 to align with our remote-first workforce strategy. We considered our entry into the sublease an impairment indicator. As a result, we currently expect to incur pre-tax costs between $6.0 million and $8.0 million in the third quarter of 2023, consisting of noncash impairment charges against certain operating lease right-of-use assets and property and equipment assets. 30 Second Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Results of Operations Comparison of the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 Revenue and Cost of Revenue Recurring Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud solutions, Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content, hosting services, payment services, online training programs and subscription-based analytic services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, retained and managed services contracts that we expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions. Cost of recurring revenue is primarily comprised of compensation costs for customer support and production IT personnel, hosting and data center costs, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty and data expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations, amortization of software development costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services including remittances of amounts due to third-parties and other costs incurred in providing support and recurring services to our customers. Our customers continue to prefer cloud subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth. Second Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 31 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Recurring revenue increased by $9.9 million, or 3.9%, and $18.0 million, or 3.6%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, driven primarily by the following: + Increases in transactional recurring revenue of $6.0 million and $11.0 million, respectively, primarily due to increases in volume for our Blackbaud Tuition Management and JustGiving solutions and positive results related to a pricing initiative we implemented at the beginning of 2023; also offsetting the increases in transactional recurring revenue were decreases related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.6 million and $2.2 million, respectively + Increases in contractual recurring revenue of $3.9 million and $7.0 million, respectively, related to the performance of our cloud solutions and, to a lesser extent, the early impact of our pricing initiatives; partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue as customers migrate to our cloud solutions; also offsetting the increases in contractual recurring revenue were decreases related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.3 million and $1.1 million, respectively For additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results, see Foreign Currency Exchange Rates below on page 47. Cost of recurring revenue decreased by $0.6 million, or 0.5%, during the three months ended June 30, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, driven primarily by the following: - Decrease in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $2.6 million primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above - Decrease in hosting and data center costs of $1.5 million as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security; currently, we expect our cloud infrastructure migration efforts and increased level of cybersecurity investments to continue for the foreseeable future + Increase in amortization of software development costs of $1.4 million due to our continued investments in the innovation and security of our solutions + Increase in transaction-based costs of $1.2 million related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments and, to a lesser extent, increases in vendor rates + Increase in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $0.7 million primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI in December 2021 Cost of recurring revenue increased by $1.8 million, or 0.8%, during the six months ended June 30, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, driven primarily by the following: + Increase in transaction-based costs of $3.3 million related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments and, to a lesser extent, increases in vendor rates + Increase in amortization of software development costs of $2.7 million due to our continued investments in the innovation and security of our solutions + Increase in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.4 million primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI in December 2021 + Increase in third-party software costs of $1.1 million primarily related to a higher number of licenses needed and also price increases for the software being used + Increase in stock-based compensation costs of $0.7 million primarily due to 2022 performance-based equity award adjustments and estimated overall Company performance against 2023 goals, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and first quarter of 2023 - Decrease in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $4.8 million primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above - Decrease in hosting and data center costs of $3.6 million as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security; currently, we expect our cloud infrastructure migration efforts and increased level of cybersecurity investments to continue for the foreseeable future Recurring gross margin increased by 190 and 120 basis points for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, primarily due to the increases in recurring revenue outpacing the changes in cost of recurring revenue. 32 Second Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) One-time services and other Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, fees for retained and managed services contracts that we do not expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, and third-party software referral fees. Cost of one-time services and other is primarily comprised of compensation costs for professional services and onsite training personnel, other costs incurred in providing onsite customer training, third-party contractor expenses, data expense incurred to perform one-time analytic services, third-party software royalties, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations. One-time services and other revenue decreased by $3.8 million, or 30.3%, and $7.2 million, or 29.0%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, when compared to the same periods in 2022, driven primarily by the following: - Decreases in one-time consulting revenue of $2.7 million and $5.7 million, respectively, primarily due to less sales of creative services and implementation and customization services, in line with our multi-year strategic shift from a license-based and one-time services business model to a cloud subscription business model, which generally requires less implementation and customization services. - Decreases in one-time analytics revenue of $0.8 million and $1.6 million, respectively, as analytics are generally integrated in our cloud solutions Cost of one-time services and other decreased by $3.6 million, or 32.1%, and $6.1 million, or 27.6%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, driven primarily by the following: - Decreases in compensation costs of $2.5 million and $5.0 million, respectively, primarily related to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above and a continued shift in resources historically supporting one-time services and other towards recurring revenue Second Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 33 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) One-time services and other gross margin increased by 230 basis points during the three months ended June 30, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, primarily due to the decrease in compensation costs discussed above outpacing the decrease in one-time services and other revenue. One-time services and other gross margin decreased by 190 basis points during the six months ended June 30, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, primarily due to the decrease of one-time services and other revenue outpacing the decrease compensation costs discussed above. Operating Expenses Sales, marketing and customer success ($M) Research and development ($M) General and administrative ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue Sales, marketing and customer success Sales, marketing and customer success expense includes compensation costs, variable sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs, variable reseller commissions and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We see a large market opportunity in the long-term and will continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness. We have also implemented software tools to enhance our digital footprint and drive lead generation. The enhancements we are making in our go-to-market approach are expected to reduce our average customer acquisition cost per customer as well as the related payback period while increasing sales velocity. 34 Second Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Sales, marketing and customer success expense increased by $0.5 million or 0.9%, during the three months ended June 30, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, primarily driven by the following: + Increase in stock-based compensation costs of $1.9 million primarily due to estimated overall Company performance against 2023 goals, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and first quarter of 2023 + Increase in advertising costs of $1.1 million - Net decrease in the following costs primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above: Decrease in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $2.0 million; and Decrease in commissions expense of $0.9 million Sales, marketing and customer success expense decreased by $0.4 million, or 0.3%, during the six months ended June 30, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, primarily driven by the following: - Net decrease in the following costs primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above: Increase in severance costs of $2.1 million; Decrease in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $3.4 million; and Decrease in commissions expense of $1.5 million + Increases in stock-based compensation costs of $2.4 million primarily due to 2022 performance-based equity award adjustments and estimated overall Company performance against 2023 goals, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and first quarter of 2023 Research and development Research and development expense includes compensation costs for engineering and product management personnel, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new solutions or upgrading and enhancing existing solutions that do not qualify for capitalization, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We continue to make investments to delight our customers with innovative and secure cloud solutions. Research and development expenses decreased by $2.2 million, or 5.7%, and $1.5 million or 2.0%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, primarily driven by the following: - Decreases in third-party contractor costs of $2.4 million and $3.6 million, respectively, primarily due to a decrease in our use of third-party software developers - Decreases in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $1.3 million and $1.9 million, respectively, primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above + Increases in stock-based compensation of $1.7 million and $2.8 million, respectively, primarily due to estimated overall Company performance against 2023 goals, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and first quarter of 2023. 2022 performance-based equity award adjustments also contributed to the increase in stock-based compensation expense during the six months ended June 30, 2023 + Increase in severance costs of $1.1 million, for the six months ended June 30, 2023, primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above Not included in research and development expense for the three months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 were $15.4 million and $14.8 million, respectively, and for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 were $29.6 million and $28.5 million, respectively, of qualifying costs associated with software and content development activities that are required to be capitalized under GAAP, such as those for our cloud solutions, as well as development costs associated with acquired companies. Qualifying capitalized development costs associated with our cloud solutions are subsequently amortized to cost of recurring revenue over the related assets' estimated useful life, which generally range from three to seven years. Second Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 35 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, Security Incident-related expenses (including legal fees, settlements and loss contingency accruals), third-party professional fees, insurance, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses. General and administrative expense increased by $11.8 million or 24.8%, and $20.8 million or 22.9%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2022, primarily driven by the following: + Increases in Security Incident-related expenses of $18.4 million and $29.0 million, respectively. See "Security Incident update" on page 29 + Increases in stock-based compensation costs of $1.5 million and $2.2 million, respectively, primarily due to estimated overall Company performance against 2023 goals, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and first quarter of 2023. 2022 performance-based equity award adjustments also contributed to the increase in stock-based compensation expense during the six months ended June 30, 2023 - Decreases in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $3.1 million and $3.5 million, respectively, primarily related to the release of $1.4 million in accrued contingent consideration related to our Kilter acquisition during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 and a $2.0 million noncash impairment of certain insignificant intangible assets that were held for sale during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022 which did not reoccur in the comparable 2023 periods - Decreases in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $2.0 million and $3.3 million, respectively, primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above - A $2.3 million noncash impairment charge during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022 against previously capitalized software development costs that reduced the carrying value of those assets to zero. The impairment charge resulted primarily from our decision to end customer support for certain solutions and did not reoccur in 2023 Fixed Asset Impairment On July 31, 2023, we entered into a sublease for a portion of our Washington, DC office location, which we previously closed in February 2023 to align with our remote-first workforce strategy. We considered our entry into the sublease an impairment indicator. As a result, we currently expect to incur pre-tax costs between $6.0 million and $8.0 million in the third quarter of 2023, consisting of noncash impairment charges against certain operating lease right-of-use assets and property and equipment assets. We expect the impairment charge to be recorded in general and administrative expense. 36 Second Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Interest Expense Interest expense ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue The increases in interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, were primarily due to an increase in our weighted average effective interest rates. We currently expect interest expense for the full year 2023 to be approximately $37 million to $41 million although our interest expense in connection with the variable rate portion of our outstanding debt could increase in a rising interest rate environment. See Note 7 to our condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information regarding our derivative instruments, which we use to manage our variable interest rate risk, and