ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis presents financial information denominated in millions of dollars which can lead to differences from rounding when compared to similar information contained in the unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes which are primarily denominated in thousands of dollars. Executive Summary We are the worlds leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good communitynonprofits, higher education institutions, K12 schools, healthcare organizations, faith communities, arts and cultural organizations, foundations, companies and individual change agentswe connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through cloud software, services, expertise and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility (CSR) and environmental, social and governance (ESG), school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics. Serving the industry for more than four decades, we are a remote-first company headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina, with operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom. Our revenue is primarily generated from the following sources: (i) charging for the use of our software solutions in cloud and hosted environments; (ii) providing payment and transactional services; (iii) providing software maintenance and support services; (iv) providing Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content; and (v) providing professional services, including implementation, consulting, training, analytic and other services. COVID-19 Impact The economic impact of COVID-19 on the social good industry remains somewhat uncertain, although we are seeing signs of recovery in the industry. Our end markets continue to display resilience in the post-pandemic recovery with a digital-first mindset. In February 2022, the Blackbaud Institute released its annual Charitable Giving Report, which reported that overall giving in 2021 grew 9% with the percent of giving done online up significantly from pre-pandemic levels and holding steady in the low-teens. Nearly 30% of those online donations are being made on a mobile device, which we see as a long-term positive as we equip organizations to process mobile donations and optimize mobile user interfaces. If our existing and prospective customers remain cautious in their purchase decisions, our operating environment may continue to be challenging. Notwithstanding these conditions, we remain focused on continuing to execute our four-point strategy and strengthening our leadership position. Four-Point Strategy 1 Expand Total Addressable Market 2 Lead with World Class Teams and Operations 3 Delight Customers with Innovative Cloud Solutions 4 Focus on Employees, Culture and ESG Initiatives 24 Second Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) 1. Expand Total Addressable Market ("TAM") In December 2021, we doubled our TAM when we acquired EVERFI, an industry leader in global social impact technology. Adding EVERFI advances our position as a leader in the rapidly evolving ESG and CSR spaces and offers cross-selling and upselling opportunities through complementary product offerings with YourCause solutions. Our TAM now stands at over $20 billion, and we remain active in the evaluation of opportunities to further expand our addressable market through acquisitions and internal product development. 2. Lead with World Class Teams and Operations This strategy expands upon our previous strategies to drive sales effectiveness and improve operating efficiency to include improving overall company performance as measured by the Rule of 40 (see discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below). We recently announced a series of strategic organizational updates to streamline our business operations and become even more customer centric. We created three new roles: Chief Operating Officer, Chief Commercial Officer and Executive Vice President of Corporations. We believe the appointments for these new roles will: ensure consistency in our approach to the customer experience; further streamline and simplify our go-to-market efforts to maximize our outcomes as a global company; and further align our YourCause and EVERFI offerings and continue our investment in being the partner of choice for corporations focused on social responsibility and impact. We also recently appointed a new member to our board of directors, who brings over 20 years of experience in technology and cybersecurity to our board. 3. Delight Customers with Innovative Cloud Solutions We are excited about the role Blackbaud is playing in developing innovative solutions for our customers to diversify the way they receive and process donations. Recently, we announced the launch of Prospect Insightsa new software tool within Raiser's Edge NXT that automates in-app intelligence related to major giving likelihood and capacity, and then prescribes actions related to portfolio management and solicitation. Also, in June 2022, we held our annual developer conference focusing on the low-code movement and accessible technology with a high number of attendees. Feedback from the conference showed that a significant majority of attendees left feeling that Blackbaud empowers customers to improve usage and experience with our solutions. 4. Focus on Employees, Culture and ESG Initiatives We recently announced that we achieved carbon neutrality for 2021. This is a goal we have been striving towards and our shift to a remote-first workforce enabled us to accelerate our timeline. Since 2019, Blackbaud has reduced its global real estate footprint by 50%, energy emissions to run office space by 63% and employee commute emissions by 75%. With a multi-pronged climate strategy, Blackbaud is focused on reducing emissions, using energy efficiently and investing in environmental projects for a more sustainable future. We shared more about our ESG strategy on our Corporate Social Responsibility website during the second quarter. Our mission driven culture has been in our DNA since inception and is very attractive in a competitive labor market. We continue to foster a diverse and inclusive environment focused on employee engagement and connectedness with our remote-first workforce strategy. We have a significant role to play in driving advances in the social good space, and we are proud of the strong corporate culture we have built and continue to cultivate in today's environment. Second Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 25 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Financial Summary Total revenue ($M) Income from operations ($M) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Total revenue increased by $35.5 million and $73.4 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, driven largely by the following: + Growth in recurring revenue primarily related to: increases in contractual recurring revenue of $26.2 million and $53.9 million, respectively, related to the performance of our cloud solutions, of which $23.4 million and $47.5 million, respectively, was attributable to EVERFI; partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue as customers migrate to our cloud solutions; also offsetting the increases in contractual recurring revenue are decreases related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.8 million and $1.1 million, respectively; and increases in transactional recurring revenue of $9.3 million and $19.5 million, respectively, primarily due to an increase in online charitable giving, the continued shift toward virtual fundraising and, to a lesser extent, increased transactional volume as our customer's constituents have begun to return to in-person events; partially offset by decreases related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $1.8 million and $2.3 million, respectively. + Increases in one-time consulting revenue due primarily to our acquisition of EVERFI, largely offset by a decrease in implementation and customization services, in line with our multi-year strategic shift from a license-based and one-time services business model to a cloud subscription business model. Our cloud subscription offerings generally require less implementation and customization services. - Decreases in one-time analytics revenue as analytics are generally integrated in our cloud solutions We currently expect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will have a significant negative impact on our total revenue for the full year 2022. Our latest projections suggest some softness in our full year 2022 bookings plan for EVERFI, which has minimal impact on our full year 2022 revenues given the ratable revenue recognition. We will be intently focused on closing the EVERFI bookings gap during the remainder of 2022. Additionally, we currently expect one-time services and other revenue to be relatively flat during 2022 when compared to 2021, inclusive of incremental one-time revenue expected from EVERFI. 26 Second Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) For additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results, see Foreign Currency Exchange Rates below on page 46 . Income from operations decreased by $13.0 million and $25.6 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, driven largely by the following: - Increases in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $17.0 million and $40.8 million, respectively, primarily due to increased employee headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI - Increases in Security Incident-related expenses, net of insurance, of $7.9 million and $15.1 million, respectively. See "Security Incident update" below. - Increases in third-party contractor costs of $7.0 million and $14.8 million, respectively, and hosting costs of $1.9 million and $4.6 million, respectively, primarily attributable to our acquisition of EVERFI and, to a lesser extent, our continued migration of our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and investments in security - Increases in transaction-based costs of $4.2 million and $9.3 million, respectively, related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments - Increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $3.8 million and $7.4 million, respectively, due to our acquisition of EVERFI - Increases in infrastructure and building costs of $3.0 million and $4.2 million, respectively, primarily related to our acquisition of EVERFI and investments in security tools - A $2.3 million noncash impairment charge during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, against previously capitalized software development costs that reduced the carrying value of those assets to zero. The impairment charge resulted primarily from our decision to end customer support for certain solutions - Increases in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $2.2 million and $3.2 million, respectively, primarily related to a $2.0 million noncash impairment of certain insignificant intangible assets held for sale - Increases in marketing costs of $1.8 million and $4.0 million, respectively, primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI - Increases in travel costs of $1.7 million and $2.6 million, respectively, due to our easing of restrictions on non-essential employee travel, which went into effect during March 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic + Increases in total revenue, as described above + Decreases in stock-based compensation expense of $2.7 million and $4.8 million, respectively, attributable to: A decrease in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during 2022 compared to 2021; and As a one-time response to COVID-19, replacement of our 2020 base salary merit increases with one-year time-based equity awards, which vested and were recognized as expense between May 1, 2020 and May 1, 2021. We are continuing to make critical investments in the business in areas such as digital marketing, engineering, security, customer success and our continued shift of cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers. Our profitability through the second quarter reflects the addition of EVERFI and some of these incremental investments that were pushed from 2021 into 2022, particularly in areas where we are increasing headcount. We continuously seek opportunities to optimize our portfolio of solutions to focus time and resources on innovation that will have the greatest impact for our customers and the markets we serve, and drive the highest return on investment. To that end, we will continue to simplify and rationalize our portfolio through product sunsets and divestitures of non-core businesses and technologies. Second Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Customer retention Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud subscription delivery model. In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs. Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and recurring service customer contracts provides a better representation of our customers' overall behavior. For the twelve months ended June 30, 2022, approximately 92% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained. This customer retention rate is materially unchanged from our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2021 and reflects our continuing efforts to rationalize our portfolio of solutions and migrate customers from legacy solutions towards our next generation solutions. Balance sheet and cash flow At June 30, 2022, our cash and cash equivalents were $29.0 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2020 Credit Facility was $880.9 million. Our net leverage ratio was 3.42 to 1.00. During the six months ended June 30, 2022, we generated $81.8 million in cash from operations, had a net decrease in borrowings of $16.3 million, had aggregate cash outlays of $34.7 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software and content development costs, and spent $19.0 million on the purchase of EVERFI solely due to the timing of the acquisition on the last day of 2021. Security Incident update As discussed in Note 10 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report, t otal costs related to the Security Incident that we expect will be recoverable has exceeded the limit of our insurance coverage . Accordingly, we expect that the Security Incident will continue to negatively impact our GAAP profitability and GAAP cash flow for the foreseeable future (see discussion regarding our non-GAAP financial measures beginning on page 36 ). For full year 2022, we currently expect net pre-tax expense of approximately $30 million to $35 million for ongoing legal fees related to the Security Incident. In line with our policy, legal fees are expensed as incurred. For full year 2022, we currently expect net cash outlays of approximately $15 million to $25 million for ongoing legal fees related to the Security Incident. We have not recorded a liability for a loss contingency related to the Security Incident as of June 30, 2022 because we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss. Results of Operations Comparison of the three and six months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 We have included the results of operations of EVERFI in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition on December 31, 2022. We determined that the EVERFI acquisition was not material to our consolidated financial statements; therefore, separate presentation of revenue and earnings since the acquisition date is not required. 28 Second Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Revenue and Cost of Revenue Recurring Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud solutions, Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content, hosting services, payment services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, retained and managed services contracts that we expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions. Cost of recurring revenue is primarily comprised of compensation costs for customer support and production IT personnel, hosting and data center costs, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty and data expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations, amortization of software development costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services including remittances of amounts due to third-parties and other costs incurred in providing support and recurring services to our customers. Our customers continue to prefer cloud subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services. Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth. Second Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Recurring revenue increased by $35.5 million, or 16.4%, and $73.4 million, or 17.3%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, driven primarily by the following: + Increases in contractual recurring revenue of $26.2 million and $53.9 million, respectively, related to the performance of our cloud solutions, of which $23.4 million and $47.5 million, respectively, was attributable to EVERFI; partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue as customers migrate to our cloud solutions; also offsetting the increases in contractual recurring revenue are decreases related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.8 million and $1.1 million, respectively + Increases in transactional recurring revenue of $9.3 million and $19.5 million, respectively, primarily due to an increase in online charitable giving, the continued shift toward virtual fundraising and, to a lesser extent, increased transactional volume as our customer's constituents have begun to return to in-person events; partially offset by decreases related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $1.8 million and $2.3 million, respectively For additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results, see Foreign Currency Exchange Rates below on page 46 . Cost of recurring revenue increased by $20.1 million, or 21.2%, and $43.4 million, or 23.7%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, driven primarily by the following: + Increases in compensation costs of $5.2 million and $12.8 million, respectively, primarily related to an increase in headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI, and a continued shift in resources historically supporting one-time services and other towards recurring revenue + Increases in transaction-based costs of $4.2 million and $9.2 million, respectively, related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments + Increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $3.6 million and $7.1 million, respectively, due to our acquisition of EVERFI + Increases in third-party contractor and hosting costs of $2.9 million and $6.9 million, respectively, as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security; currently, we expect our cloud infrastructure migration efforts and increased level of security investments to continue through 2024 + Increases in overhead allocations of $1.2 million and $2.8 million, respectively, related to the increased headcount discussed above + Increases in amortization of software development costs of $1.2 million and $2.3 million, respectively Recurring gross margin decreased by 1.8% and 2.3% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, primarily due to the increase in cost of recurring revenue outpacing the increase in recurring revenue. 30 Second Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) One-time services and other Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, fees for retained and managed services contracts that we do not expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, and third-party software referral fees. Cost of one-time services and other is primarily comprised of compensation costs for professional services and onsite training personnel, other costs incurred in providing onsite customer training, third-party contractor expenses, data expense incurred to perform one-time analytic services, third-party software royalties, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations. One-time services and other revenue decreased insignificantly, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, when compared to the same periods in 2021, driven primarily by the following: + Increases in one-time consulting revenue of $0.6 million and $1.6 million, respectively, primarily attributable to EVERFI, largely offset by less revenue from implementation and customization services, in line with our multi-year strategic shift from a license-based and one-time services business model to a cloud subscription business model. Our cloud subscription offerings generally require less implementation and customization services. - Decreases in one-time analytics revenue of $0.9 million and $1.7 million, respectively, as analytics are generally integrated in our cloud solutions Cost of one-time services and other decreased by $2.5 million, or 18.4%, and $5.8 million, or 20.8%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, driven primarily by the following: - Decreases in compensation costs of $2.6 million and $5.3 million,respectively, largely due to a continued shift in resources historically supporting one-time services and other towards recurring revenue as well as a decrease in professional services headcount Second Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 31 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) One-time services and other gross margin increased by 19.9% and 23.4% during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, primarily due to the significant reductions in compensation costs discussed above. Operating Expenses Sales, marketing and customer success ($M) Research and development ($M) General and administrative ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue Sales, marketing and customer success Sales, marketing and customer success expense includes compensation costs, variable sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs, variable reseller commissions and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We see a large market opportunity in the long-term and will continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness. We have also implemented software tools to enhance our digital footprint and drive lead generation. The enhancements we are making in our go-to-market approach are expected to significantly reduce our average customer acquisition cost per customer as well as the related payback period while increasing sales velocity. Sales, marketing and customer success expense increased by $7.3 million, or 16.0%, and $13.7 million, or 14.5%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, primarily driven by the following: + Increases in compensation costs of $4.0 million and $7.7 million, respectively, primarily related to increased employee headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI + Increases in advertising costs of $1.8 million and $4.0 million, respectively, primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI + Increases in travel costs of $0.6 million and $1.0 million due to our easing of restrictions on non-essential employee travel, which went into effect during March 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic 32 Second Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Research and development Research and development expense includes compensation costs for engineering and product management personnel, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new solutions or upgrading and enhancing existing solutions that do not qualify for capitalization, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We continue to make investments to delight our customers with innovative and secure cloud solutions. Research and development expenses increased by $8.1 million, or 26.8%, and $18.9 million or 31.8%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, primarily driven by the following: + Increases in compensation costs of $5.8 million and $14.1 million, respectively, primarily related to increased employee headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI, and to a lesser extent, our increased hiring of engineers + Increases in third-party contractor costs of $5.4 million and $11.0 million, respectively, primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI and, to a lesser extent, an increase in our use of third-party software developers + Increases in overhead allocation costs of $0.8 million and $1.8 million, respectively, primarily related to increased headcount discussed above - Increases in development costs of $4.3 million and $9.0 million, respectively, that were required to be capitalized under GAAP, of which $3.1 million and $6.6 million was attributable to EVERFI software and content Not included in research and development expense for the three months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 were $14.8 million and $10.4 million, respectively, and for the six months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 were $28.5 million and $19.5 million, respectively, of qualifying costs associated with software and content development activities that are required to be capitalized under GAAP, such as those for our cloud solutions, as well as development costs associated with acquired companies. Qualifying capitalized development costs associated with our cloud solutions are subsequently amortized to cost of subscriptions revenue over the related assets' estimated useful life, which generally range from three to seven years. General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, third-party professional fees, insurance, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses. Second Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 33 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) General and administrative expense increased by $15.4 million or 48.1%, and $28.6 million, or 45.6%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, primarily driven by the following: + Increases in Security Incident-related expenses, net of insurance, of $7.9 million and $15.1 million, respectively, consisting primarily of legal fees, as t otal costs related to the Security Incident that we expect will be recoverable has exceeded the limit of our insurance coverage. + A $2.3 million noncash impairment charge during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022 against previously capitalized software development costs that reduced the carrying value of those assets to zero. The impairment charge resulted primarily from our decision to end customer support for certain solutions + Increases in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $2.2 million and $3.2 million, respectively, primarily related to a $2.0 million noncash impairment of certain insignificant intangible assets held for sale + Increases in compensation costs of $2.0 million and $6.6 million, respectively, primarily related to increased employee headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI + Increases in third-party contractor costs of $0.7 million and $1.9 million, respectively + Increases in rent expense of $0.7 million and $1.2 million, respectively, primarily related to leases assumed from our acquisition of EVERFI + Increases in travel costs of $0.6 million and $0.9 million due to our easing of restrictions on non-essential employee travel, which went into effect during March 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic - Increases in allocated corporate IT costs of $1.8 million and $3.6 million, respectively, primarily related to investments in security tools. Depreciation, facilities and IT support costs are pooled and recorded to general and administrative expense and allocated to other lines of our condensed statements of comprehensive income based on headcount. 34 Second Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Interest Expense Interest expense ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue The increases in interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021, were primarily due to the new borrowings used to finance our acquisition of EVERFI. We currently expect interest expense for the full year 2022 to be approximately $34 million million to $37 million although our interest expense in connection with the variable rate portion of our outstanding debt could increase in a rising interest rate environment. See Note 9 to our condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information regarding our derivative instruments, which we use to manage our variable interest rate risk, and