Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations Seasonality in Item 7 in this report. 14 2021 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Working Capital For a discussion of our working capital practices, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7 in this report. Available Information Our website address is www.blackbaud.com . We make available, free of charge through our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC, but other information on our website is not incorporated into this report. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains these reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . Information About Our Executive Officers The following table sets forth information concerning our executive officers as of February 15, 2022: Name Age Title Michael P. Gianoni 61 President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony W. Boor 59 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Kevin P. Gregoire 54 Executive Vice President and President, U.S. Markets Kevin R. McDearis 54 Executive Vice President and Chief Products Officer Kevin W. Mooney 63 Executive Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Development Jon W. Olson 58 Senior Vice President and General Counsel Michael P. Gianoni joined us as President and Chief Executive Officer in January 2014. Prior to joining us, he served as Executive Vice President and Group President, Financial Institutions at Fiserv, Inc., a global technology provider serving the financial services industry, from January 2010 to December 2013. He joined Fiserv as President of its Investment Services division in December 2007. Mr. Gianoni was Executive Vice President and General Manager of CheckFree Investment Services, which provided investment management solutions to financial services organizations, from June 2006 until December 2007 when CheckFree was acquired by Fiserv. From May 1994 to November 2005, he served as Senior Vice President of DST Systems Inc., a global provider of technology-based service solutions. Mr. Gianoni is a member of the Board of Directors of Teradata Corporation, a publicly traded global big data analytics company. Mr. Gianoni has served on several nonprofit boards across several segments, including relief organizations, hospitals and higher education. He currently is a board member of the International African American Museum. He holds an AS in electrical engineering from Waterbury State Technical College, a BS with a business concentration from Charter Oak State College, and an MBA and an honorary Doctorate from the University of New Haven. Anthony W. Boor joined us as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in November 2011 and served as our interim President and Chief Executive Officer from August 2013 to January 2014. Prior to joining us, he served as an executive with Brightpoint, Inc., a global provider of device lifecycle services to the wireless industry, beginning in 1999, most recently as its Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. He also served as the interim President of Europe, Middle East and Africa during Brightpoint's significant restructuring of that region. Mr. Boor served as Director of Business Operations for Brightpoint North America from August 1998 to July 1999. Prior to joining Brightpoint, Mr. Boor was employed in various financial positions with Macmillan Computer Publishing, Inc., a Viacom owned book publishing company specializing in computer hardware and software related topics, Day Dream Publishing, Inc., a publishing company specializing in calendars, posters and time management materials, Ernst & Young LLP, an accounting firm, Expo New Mexico, a state-owned fair and expo grounds and live pari-mutual horse racing venue, KPMG LLP, an accounting firm, and Ernst & Whinney LLP, an accounting firm. He holds a BS in Accounting from New Mexico State University. 2021 Form 10-K 15 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Kevin P. Gregoire has served as our Executive Vice President and President of U.S. Markets since April 2021. He joined us as Executive Vice President and President, Enterprise Markets Group in April 2018. Prior to joining us, Mr. Gregoire was Group President of the Financial Institutions Group at Fiserv, a global technology provider serving the financial services industry, from March 2014 until February 2018. He joined Fiserv in December 2002 and served in other key leadership roles including Division President and Chief Operating Officer, Card Services, and Senior Vice President of Product and Network Strategy. Mr. Gregoire is also a veteran of the United States Army, where he served as Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers and was awarded three Army Commendation Medals. He holds a BS from the United States Military Academy at West Point, and an MBA from the F.W. Olin School of Business at Babson College. Kevin R. McDearis has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Products Officer since October 2016. He joined us in August 2014 as our Senior Vice President of Global Product Development. Prior to joining us, Mr. McDearis was the Chief Information Officer at Manhattan Associates, Inc., a technology leader in supply chain and omnichannel commerce, from August 2012 to July 2014. He was responsible for leading a global IT organization in strategy development, organization development, portfolio and project management, software and infrastructure engineering, service delivery and operations. Prior to that, Mr. McDearis served as Chief Technology Officer for the Enterprise Technology Group and other key leadership positions at Fiserv (formerly CheckFree), a global technology provider serving the financial services industry, from October 1996 to August 2012. Mr. McDearis serves on the Board of Directors for the USS Yorktown Foundation. He also served on the Board of Directors of the Technology Association of Georgia ("TAG") from 2011 to 2016 and as Vice Chairman of the Board in 2014. He holds a BS in Management from The Georgia Institute of Technology. Kevin W. Mooney has served as our Executive Vice President of Strategy and Business Development since April 2021. Before that he was the Executive Vice President and President, General Markets Group since January 2010. He joined us in July 2008 as our Chief Commercial Officer. Before joining Blackbaud, Mr. Mooney was a senior executive at Travelport GDS from August 2007 to May 2008. As Chief Commercial Officer of Travelport GDS, one of the world's largest providers of information services and transaction processing to the travel industry, Mr. Mooney was responsible for global sales, marketing, training, service and support activities. Prior to that he was Chief Financial Officer for Worldspan from March 2005 until it was acquired by Travelport in August 2007. Mr. Mooney has also held key executive positions in the telecommunications industry and he served as a member of the Board of Directors of Level 3 Communications, Inc., a publicly traded global managed network services company, from October 2014 to November 2017. Prior to that he served on the Board of Directors of tw telecom from August 2005 until it was acquired by Level 3 in October 2014. He holds a BS in Finance from Seton Hall University, and an MBA in Finance from Georgia State University. Jon W. Olson joined us as Senior Vice President and General Counsel in September 2008. Mr. Olson is responsible for Blackbaud's legal and real estate activities. Prior to joining us, he was an attorney with Alcatel-Lucent USA, the U.S. subsidiary of France-based Alcatel-Lucent (now owned by Nokia Corporation) that designs, develops, and builds wireline, wireless, and converged communications networks, from July 1997 to September 2008. Prior to joining Alcatel-Lucent, Mr. Olson was employed in legal positions with MCI, Inc., a global business and residential communications company, from September 1996 to July 1997, and Unisys Corporation, a global information technology company, from July 1992 to September 1996. Mr. Olson is a member of the MUSC (Medical University of South Carolina) Hollings Cancer Center Advisory Board and is on the board of the Charleston Symphony and Charleston Jazz. He holds a BS from Georgetown University, a JD from Dickinson School of Law and an MBA from Seton Hall University. 16 2021 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business operations face a number of risks. These risks should be read and considered with other information provided in this report. Strategic Risks Our failure to compete successfully could cause our revenue or market share to decline. Our market is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and there are limited barriers to entry for many segments of this market. The companies we compete with and other potential competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources and generate greater revenue and better name recognition than we do. Also, a large diversified software enterprise could decide to enter the market directly, including through acquisitions. Competitive pressures can adversely impact our business by limiting the prices we can charge our customers and making the adoption and renewal of our solutions more difficult. Our competitors might also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with resellers and third-party consulting firms or other parties with whom we have had relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our solutions. These competitive pressures could cause our revenue and market share to decline. Because competition for highly qualified personnel is intense, we might not be able to attract and retain key personnel needed to support our planned growth. To meet our objectives successfully, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel with specialized skill sets. If we are unable to attract and retain suitably qualified management, there could be a material adverse impact on our business. Further, we use equity incentive programs and equity awards in lieu of cash as part of our overall employee compensation agreements to both attract and retain personnel. A decline in our stock price could negatively impact the value of these equity incentive and related compensation programs as retention and recruiting tools. We may need to create new or additional equity incentive programs and/or compensation packages to remain competitive, which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders and/or adversely affect our results of operations. More rapid than expected success in implementing our strategic shift from a license-based and one-time services business model to a cloud subscription business model with partners delivering some of our services could negatively impact our total revenue growth and financial performance. We continue to intentionally shift our focus towards selling cloud subscription solutions, which generally require less customization services. Also, our cloud solution contracts now frequently include subscription-based professional, analytic and training services or those services can be delivered through our partner program. This strategic shift to migrate our existing customers, sell new customers our cloud subscription solutions and have some services delivered by our partners results in a decrease in our one-time services contracts and revenue. Although our business model seeks to anticipate the rate of migration and resulting negative impact on our total revenue growth, more rapid than expected success in implementing this strategic shift could negatively impact our total revenue growth and financial performance. 2021 Form 10-K 17 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. The market for software and services for the social good community might not grow and the organizations in that community might not continue to adopt our solutions and services. Many organizations in the social good community, including nonprofits, foundations, companies, education institutions and healthcare organizations, have not traditionally used integrated and comprehensive software and services for their specific needs. We cannot be certain that the market for such solutions and services will continue to develop and grow or that these organizations will elect to adopt our solutions and services rather than continue to use traditional, less automated methods, attempt to develop software internally, rely upon legacy software systems, or use software solutions not specifically designed for this market. Organizations that have already invested substantial resources in other fundraising methods or other non-integrated software solutions might be reluctant to adopt our solutions and services to supplement or replace their existing systems or methods. In addition, the implementation of one or more of our software solutions can involve significant capital commitments by our customers, which they may be unwilling or unable to make, especially due to disruption in the social good community due to COVID-19. If demand for and market acceptance of our solutions and services does not increase, we might not grow our business as we expect. If we fail to respond to technological changes or successfully introduce new and improved solutions, our competitive position may be harmed and our business may suffer. The introduction of solutions encompassing new technologies can render existing solutions obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to enhance existing solutions and develop and introduce in a timely manner or acquire new solutions that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to develop or acquire on a timely and cost-effective basis new software solutions or enhancements to existing solutions or if such new solutions or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. If we do not successfully address the risks inherent in the expansion of our international operations, our business could suffer. We currently have non-U.S. operations primarily in the U.K., Canada, Australia and Costa Rica, and we intend to expand further into international markets. Expansion of our international operations will require a significant amount of attention from our management and substantial financial resources and might require us to add qualified management in these markets. Our direct sales model requires us to attract, retain and manage qualified sales personnel capable of selling into markets outside the United States. In some cases, our costs of sales might increase if our customers require us to sell through local distributors. If we are unable to grow our international operations in a cost-effective and timely manner, our business and operating results could be harmed. We expect that an increasing portion of our international revenues will be denominated in foreign currencies, subjecting us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we expand our international operations, exposures to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions may increase. Doing business internationally involves additional risks that could harm our operating results. Along with risks similar to those faced by our U.S. operations, our international operations are also subject to risks related to differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions, including: the imposition of additional withholding taxes or other tax on our foreign income, tariffs or restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; greater risk of a failure of our employees and partners to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including antitrust regulations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, and any trade regulations ensuring fair trade practices; and the imposition of, or unexpected adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those pertaining to export restrictions, privacy and data protection, trade and employment restrictions and intellectual protections. 18 2021 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Unfavorable media coverage related to peer-to-peer fundraising campaigns on our social platforms could negatively impact our business. Our online social giving platforms receive a high degree of media coverage for particularly news-worthy or controversial fundraising campaigns, as well as for our fee-based business model. Although our terms of service provide express limitations on the platforms' user-initiated fundraising campaigns and reserve our right to remove content that violates our terms of service, it may not always be possible to remove such content prior to it receiving attention in the media. Negative publicity related to our online social giving platforms could have an adverse effect on the size, engagement and loyalty of our user base and could result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Acquisitions could be difficult to consummate and integrate into our operations, and they could disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we will continue from time to time to seek to grow our business through acquisitions of new or complementary businesses, technologies or products that we believe can improve our ability to compete in our existing customer markets or allow us to enter new markets. The potential risks associated with acquisitions and investment transactions include, but are not limited to: failure to realize anticipated returns on investment, cost savings and synergies; difficulty in assimilating the operations, policies and personnel of the acquired company; unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions; challenges in combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we may not have experience; distraction of managements attention from normal business operations; potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; difficulty implementing effective internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure