Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before deciding to invest in our Class A common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are currently unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business or results of operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Summary Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that you should consider before investing in our Class A common stock, as more fully described below this summary. The principal factors and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business include, among others: 11 We have a limited history of operating at our current scale and under our current strategy, which makes it difficult to predict our future operating results, and we may not achieve our expected operating results in the future. We may not be able to sustain our revenue growth rate in the future. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuation from period to period and may not be an accurate indication of future performance; our operating results have, and may in the future, fall below our financial guidance or other projections or fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. The loss of one or more of our largest customers could adversely affect our results of operations. We have incurred significant losses each year since our inception, we expect our operating expenses to increase, and we cannot give assurances of our future profitability, if any. The market for our products and services has not been established with precision, is still emerging and may not achieve the growth potential we expect or may grow more slowly than expected. Our business with various governmental entities is subject to the policies, priorities, regulations, mandates, and funding levels of such governmental entities and may be negatively or positively impacted by any change thereto. Our ability to grow our business depends on the successful production, launch, commissioning and/or operation of our satellites and related ground systems, which is subject to many uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by insurance. For example, if one or more of our satellite launches result in catastrophic failure or one or more of our in-orbit satellites or payloads fail, and we have not obtained insurance coverage, we could be required to record significant impairment charges for the satellite or payload. If our satellites fail to operate as intended, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently we are dependent on LeoStella as the sole manufacturer of our satellites. Any significant disruption to LeoStellas operations or facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is capital intensive, and we may not be able to raise adequate capital to finance our business strategies, including funding future satellites, or we may be able to do so only on terms that significantly restrict our ability to operate our business. Our business is subject to a wide variety of additional extensive and evolving government laws and regulations. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a limited history of operating at our current scale and under our current strategy, which makes it difficult to predict our future operating results, and we may not achieve our expected operating results in the future. We have a limited history of operating at our current scale and under our current strategy to define the future of real-time first-to-know insights, which makes it difficult to forecast our future results. You should consider and evaluate our prospects in light of the risks and uncertainty frequently encountered by growth stage companies in rapidly evolving markets. We have not achieved profitability, and we may not realize sufficient revenue to achieve profitability in future periods. 12 Further, in future periods, our revenue growth could slow or our revenue could decline for a number of reasons, including slowing demand for our platform, increased competition, changes to technology, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, or our failure to continue to take advantage of growth opportunities. We have also encountered, and will continue to encounter, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks and uncertainties described below. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties and our future revenue growth are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations, and our business could suffer. We may not be able to sustain our revenue growth rate in the future. Although our revenue increased in 2022, there can be no assurances that revenue will continue to grow or do so at current rates, and you should not rely on the revenue of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. Our revenue growth rate may decline in future periods. Many factors may contribute to declines in our revenue growth rate, including increased competition, slowing demand for our products and services from existing and new customers, increased regulatory burdens domestically or abroad, a failure by us to continue capitalizing on growth opportunities, terminations of existing contracts by our customers, and the maturation of our business, among others. If our revenue growth rate declines, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuation from period to period and may not be an accurate indication of future performance; our operating results have, and may in the future, fall below our financial guidance or other projections or fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. Our results of operations, including cash flows, have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter or measuring period should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly results, financial position, and operations are likely to fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and as a result, may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. We have presented many of the factors that may cause our results of operations to fluctuate in this Risk Factors section. Fluctuations in our results of operations have, and may in the future, cause such results to fall below our financial guidance or other projections, or the expectations of analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our Class A common stock to decline. Our financial performance is dependent on our ability to generate a sustainable order rate for products and services. This can be challenging and may fluctuate on an annual basis as the number of contracts awarded and as the timing of such awards vary. If we are unable to win new contracts or execute on existing contracts as expected, our business, results of operations and financial position could be further adversely affected. The timing of our sales and related revenue recognition is difficult to predict because of the length and unpredictability of the sales cycle for our products and services. We are often required to spend significant time and resources to better educate and familiarize potential customers with the value proposition of our products and services. Therefore, our sales cycle is often long and can vary substantially from customer to customer. Further, decisions to purchase our imagery services can involve significant financial commitments, potential customers for larger monetary or specialized design/engineering contracts generally evaluate our systems, products and technologies at multiple levels within their organization, each of which often have specific requirements, and can involve their senior management and multiple internal approvals. As a result of our long and unpredictable sales cycles, large individual sales have, in some cases, occurred in quarters subsequent to those we anticipated, or have not occurred at all. The loss or delay of one or more large sales transactions in a quarter would impact our results of operations and cash flow for that quarter and any future quarters in which revenue from that transaction is lost or delayed. In addition, downturns in new sales may not be immediately reflected in our revenue because we generally recognize revenue over the term of our contracts. The timing of customer billing and payment varies from contract to contract. A delay in the timing of receipt of such 13 collections, or a default on a large contract, may negatively impact our liquidity for the period and in the future. Because a substantial portion of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term and require time to adjust, our results of operations and liquidity would suffer if revenue fell below our expectations in a particular period. In addition, our pricing model includes both subscription-based and fixed fee contracts, adding further variability to the timing of our revenue recognition across customer contracts. Other factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and financial position include, without limitation, those listed below: the number of satellites in our satellite constellation; satellite or geospatial data and analytics platform failures that reduce the planned network size below projected levels, which result in contract delays or cancellations; the cost of raw materials or supplied components for the manufacture and operation of our satellites; the timing and cost of, and level of investment in, research and development relating to our technologies; termination of one or more large contracts by customers, including for convenience; changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry; prolonged periods of unexpected weather patterns, natural disasters or other events that can impact image quality or force a cancellation or rescheduling of satellite launches; and general economic, regulatory, and market conditions, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and other geopolitical uncertainty and instability, such as the ongoing geopolitical tensions related to Russias actions in Ukraine, resulting sanctions imposed by the United States and other countries, and retaliatory actions taken by Russia in response to such sanctions . The individual or cumulative effects of factors discussed above could result in large fluctuations and unpredictability in our quarterly and annual operating results. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. These factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict financial metrics for any particular period. The variability and unpredictability of our quarterly results of operations, cash flows, or other operating metrics could also result in our failure to meet our expectations or those of analysts that cover us or investors with respect to revenue or other key metrics for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the trading price of our Class A common stock could fall, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. The loss of one or more of our largest customers could adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on a small number of customers for a large portion of our revenue. A significant decrease in the sales to or loss of any of our major customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In fiscal years 2022 and 2021, we had two and three customers, respectively, that each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue and in the aggregate, accounted for 42% and 45% of our total net revenue, respectively. Customers in the defense market generally purchase our services in connection with government programs that have a limited duration, leading to fluctuating sales to any particular customer in this market from year to year. If we lose one or more of our major enterprise or government customers, or if we experience a significant reduction in business from one or more major enterprise or government customers, there is no assurance that we would be able to replace those customers to generate comparable revenue over a short time period, which could harm our operating results and profitability. If existing customers do not make subsequent purchases from us or renew their contracts with us, our revenue could decline, and our results of operations would be adversely impacted. 14 We also derive a significant portion of our revenue from existing customers that expand their relationships with us. Increasing the size and number of the deployments of our existing customers is a major part of our growth strategy. We may not be effective in executing this or any other aspect of our growth strategy. We forecast the expected capacity utilization of our satellites based on our knowledge of the customers needs at the time of forecast, which may not be accurate by the time of utilization due to a variety of factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to geopolitical factors, war, historical use, changes in budgets or priorities, and other customer specific events. Our contract terms with our customers and resellers vary in length, may not provide for automatic renewal and may require the customer or reseller to opt-in to extend the term. Our customers and resellers have no obligation to renew, upgrade, or expand their contracts with us after the terms of their existing contracts have expired. In addition, many of our customer and reseller contracts permit the customer or reseller to terminate their contracts with us with notice periods of varying lengths, and our contracts with U.S. government customers may be terminated for convenience. If one or more of our customers or resellers terminate their contracts with us, whether for convenience, for default in the event of a breach by us, or for other reasons specified in our contracts, as applicable; if our customers or resellers elect not to renew their contracts with us; if our customers or resellers renew their contractual arrangements with us for shorter contract lengths; or if our customers or resellers otherwise seek to renegotiate terms of their existing contracts on terms less favorable to us, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to renew or expand our customer relationships may decrease or vary as a result of a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our geospatial data and analytics platform and/or our products and services, the frequency and severity of errors or disruptions in our platform and/or our products and services, our pricing, the effects of general economic conditions, competitive offerings or alternatives, or reductions in our customers spending levels. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations would also be adversely affected if we face difficulty collecting our accounts receivable from our customers or if we are required to refund customer prepayments and deposits. Achieving renewal or expansion of deployments may require us to increasingly engage in sophisticated and costly sales efforts that may not result in additional sales. In addition, our customers decisions to expand the use of our products and services depends on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the functioning of our products and services, and our customers satisfaction with our products and services. If our efforts to expand within our existing customer base are not successful, our business may suffer. Moreover, we forecast the expected capacity utilization of our satellites based on our knowledge of the customers needs at the time of forecast, which may not be accurate by the time of utilization due to a variety of factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to geopolitical factors, war, historical use, changes in budgets or priorities, and other customer specific events. We rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management, engineering, sales and operational staff and must retain and attract qualified and highly skilled personnel in order to grow our business successfully. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and our highly qualified team of engineers and data scientists, many of whom have numerous years of experience, specialized expertise in our business, and security clearances required for certain defense projects. If we are not successful in hiring and retaining highly qualified engineers and data scientists, we may not be able to extend or maintain our engineering and data science expertise, and our future product development efforts could be adversely affected. Competition for hiring these employees is intense, especially regarding engineers and data scientists with specialized skills and security clearances required for our business, and we may be unable to hire and retain enough engineers and data scientists to implement our growth strategy. 15 Certain U.S. government contracts require us, and some of our employees, to maintain national security clearances. Obtaining and maintaining national security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit, and retain employees who already hold national security clearances. Further, some of our contracts contain provisions requiring us to staff an engagement with personnel that the customer considers key to our successful performance under the contract. In the event we are unable to provide these key personnel or acceptable substitutions, the customer may terminate the contract. As a result, if we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, we may lose revenue and our ability to maintain and grow our business could be limited. Our future success also depends on the successful execution of our strategy to increase our sales to existing customers, identify and engage new customers, and enter new U.S. and non-U.S. markets, which strategy will depend, among other things, on our ability to successfully build and expand our sales organization and operations. Identifying, recruiting, training, and managing sales personnel requires significant time, expense, and attention, including from our senior management and other key personnel, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations in the short and long term. In order to successfully scale our sales model, we must, and we intend to, increase the size of our direct sales force, both in the United States and outside of the United States, to generate additional revenue from new and existing customers. If we do not hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified sales personnel, our future revenue growth and business could be adversely impacted. It may take a significant period of time before our sales personnel are fully trained and productive, and there is no guarantee we will be successful in adequately training and effectively deploying our sales personnel. Our business would be adversely affected if our efforts to build, expand, train, and manage our sales organization are not successful. Any future sales organization changes may result in a temporary reduction of productivity, which could negatively affect our rate of growth. In addition, any significant change to the way we structure the compensation of our sales organization may be disruptive and may affect our revenue growth. If we are unable to attract, hire, develop, retain, and motivate qualified sales personnel, if our new sales personnel are unable to achieve sufficient sales productivity levels in a reasonable period of time or at all, if our marketing programs are not effective or if we are unable to effectively build, expand, and manage our sales organization and operations, our sales and revenue may grow more slowly than expected or materially decline, and our business may be significantly harmed. We may not be able to convert our orders in backlog into revenue. Backlog is typically subject to large variations from quarter to quarter and comparisons of backlog from period to period are not necessarily indicative of future revenue. The contracts comprising our backlog may not result in actual revenue in any particular period or at all, and the actual revenue from such contracts may differ from our backlog estimates. The timing of receipt of revenue, if any, on projects included in backlog could change because many factors affect the scheduling of projects. Cancellation of or adjustments to contracts may occur. Additionally, all U.S. government contracts included in backlog may be terminated at the convenience of the U.S. government. If a U.S. government contract is terminated before completion of all of the contracted work, we may not receive all potential revenue from these orders. The failure to realize all amounts in our backlog could adversely affect our future revenue and gross margins. As a result, our backlog as of any particular date may not be an accurate indicator of our future earnings. Furthermore, the presentation of our financial results requires us to make estimates and assumptions that may affect revenue recognition. In some instances, we could reasonably use different estimates and assumptions, and changes in estimates are likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. We could incur significant unanticipated costs if we do not accurately estimate and execute the costs of fixed-price engagements. 16 Certain of our products and services contracts are fixed-price contracts, rather than contracts in which payment to us is determined on a time and materials or other basis. Our failure to estimate accurately the resources and schedule required for a project, or our failure to complete our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the project plan upon which our fixed-price contract was based, could adversely affect our overall profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are consistently entering into long-term contracts for large projects that magnify this risk. We have been required to commit unanticipated additional resources to complete certain projects, which has resulted in losses on those contracts. In addition, we may fix the price for some projects at an early stage of the project engagement, which could result in a fixed price that is too low. Therefore, any changes from our original estimates could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not establish relationships with high-impact distributors and resellers, or if we fail to optimize relationships with existing members of our distribution channel, or if our distribution channel members suffer financial losses due to adverse economic conditions or otherwise, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected. We expect our revenue derived from indirect channel sales to increase in the near future. Our ability to effectively distribute our products and services depends in part upon the financial and business condition of our distributor and reseller network. The robustness of our distributor and reseller network depends on our ability to establish relationships with high-impact distributors and resellers, our ability to structure products bundles, business terms, promote system integrations, and optimize the effectiveness of our distributor and reseller network. Distributors and resellers may not be highly capitalized and experience difficulties during times of economic contraction. If our distributors and resellers were to become insolvent, they would not be able to maintain their business and sales or provide customer support services, which would negatively impact our business and revenue. Over time, we have modified and will continue to modify aspects of our relationship with our distributors and resellers, such as their incentive programs, pricing to them, and our distribution model to motivate and reward them for aligning their businesses with our strategy and business objectives. Changes in these relationships and underlying programs could negatively impact our distributors and resellers business, which could harm our business. Further, our distributors and resellers may lose confidence in our business, move to competitive products, or may not have the skills or ability to support customers. The loss of or a significant reduction in business with those distributors or resellers could harm our business. In particular, if one or more of such distributors or resellers were unable to meet their obligations with respect to accounts payable to us, we could be forced to write off such accounts and may be required to delay the recognition of revenue on future sales to the affected customers. These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely basis, new products or product enhancements or that the new products will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace or that we will successfully manage the transition from existing products. There can be no assurance that errors will not be found in any new or enhanced products. Certain products require a higher level of sales and support expertise or external validation. Failure of our sales channel and sales representatives, particularly the independent channel partners, to obtain this expertise and to sell the new product offerings effectively could have an adverse impact on our sales in future periods. We do not have a comprehensive network of resellers, value added resellers, and similar entities and we may not be successful in developing a global sales network with qualified and experienced channel partners. Any of these problems may result in the loss of or delay in customer acceptance, diversion of product development resources, damage to our reputation, or increased service costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The market for our products and services has not been established with precision, is still emerging and may not achieve the growth potential we expect or may grow more slowly than expected. The market for our products and services has not been established with precision as the commercialization of space is a relatively new development and is rapidly evolving. Our views of the total addressable market are based 17 on a number of third-party reports and management estimates, which may or may not accurately reflect future market size and growth. As a result, our views of the total addressable market may prove to be incorrect. We face intense competition that may cause us to have to either reduce our prices for our products and services or to lose market share. We operate in highly competitive industries that are evolving and many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than we have. Our products and services compete with satellite and aerial imagery and related products and services offered by a range of private and government providers. Our current or future competitors may have superior technologies or greater financial, personnel and other resources than we have. The value of our products and services may also be diluted by related products and services that are available free of charge. Competition in our imagery services business is highly diverse, and while our competitors offer different products, there is often competition for contracts that are part of governmental budgets. Our major existing and potential competitors for our products and services include commercial satellite imagery companies, state-owned imagery providers, aerial imagery companies, free sources of imagery and unmanned aerial vehicles. We also face competition from companies that provide geospatial data analytic information and services to the U.S. government, including defense prime contractors. Our competitors or potential competitors could, in the future, offer satellite-based imagery or other products and services with more attractive features than our products and services. The emergence of new remote imaging technologies or the continued growth of low-cost imaging satellites could negatively affect our marketing efforts. More importantly, if competitors develop and launch satellites or other imagery-content sources with more advanced capabilities and technologies than ours, or offer products and services at lower prices than ours, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Due to competitive pricing pressures, such as new product introductions by us or our competitors or other factors, the selling price of our products and services may further decrease. If we are unable to offset decreases in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes or by adjusting our product mix, our revenue and operating margins may decline and our financial position may be harmed. The U.S. government and foreign governments may develop, construct, launch and operate their own imagery satellites with capabilities similar to ours, which could reduce their need to rely on us and other commercial suppliers. In addition, such governments could sell or provide free of charge Earth imagery from their satellites and thereby compete with our products and services. Also, governments may at times make our imagery freely available for humanitarian purposes, which could impair our revenue growth with non-governmental organizations. In addition, some of our foreign competitors currently benefit from, and others may benefit in the future from, subsidies and other protective measures by their home countries where governments are providing financial support, including significant investments in the development of new technologies. Government support of this nature greatly reduces the commercial risks associated with satellite development activities for these competitors. This market environment may result in increased pressures on our pricing and other competitive factors. Some of our competitors have made or could make acquisitions of businesses that allow them to offer more competitive and comprehensive solutions. As a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors may be able to accelerate the adoption of new technologies that better address customer needs, devote greater resources to bring these products and services to market, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. These competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in fewer orders, reduced revenue and margins, and loss of market share. In addition, industry consolidation may impact customers perceptions of the viability of smaller or even mid-size companies and consequently customers willingness to purchase from such firms. 18 We may not compete successfully against our current or potential competitors. If we are unable to compete successfully, or if competing successfully requires us to take costly actions in response to the actions of our competitors, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, companies competing with us may have a different pricing or distribution model. Increased competition could result in fewer customer orders, price reductions, reduced margins, and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. We have incurred significant losses each year since our inception, we expect our operating expenses to increase, and we cannot give assurances of our future profitability, if any. We have incurred significant losses each year since our inception and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. As of December 31, 2022, we had an accumulated deficit of $545.1 million. As we continue to expand our business, and the breadth of our operations, upgrade our infrastructure, expand into new markets, invest in research and development, invest in sales and marketing, including expanding our sales organization, and incur costs associated with general administration, including expenses related to being a public company and hiring additional employees, we expect that our costs of revenue and operating expenses will continue to increase. As we seek to grow our customer base, we may also incur increased losses because the costs associated with acquiring and growing our customers and with research and development are generally incurred upfront, while our revenue from customer contracts is generally recognized over the contract term. We may not be able to increase our revenue at a rate sufficient to offset increases in our costs of revenue and operating expenses in the near term or at all, which would prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability in the future. Any failure by us to achieve, and then sustain or increase, profitability on a consistent basis could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are unable to become profitable, we may not be able to execute our business plan, our prospects may be harmed, and our stock price may be adversely affected and decline. The global COVID-19 pandemic has created operational challenges that have negatively affected our business and operations. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, our workforce has been operating in a hybrid environment. We are monitoring and evaluating the impacts on our operations and work force from the transition to a hybrid work environment, such as our ability to sustain productivity and the mental health of our workforce, to maintain and grow our culture in a hybrid environment, to comply with regulations and laws for workers we have hired in new states, to mitigate the physical and cybersecurity risks that stem from a decentralized work environment, and to manage the continued delays in the supply chain. The longer-term impacts of the various operational challenges associated with the transition to a hybrid work environment could continue to harm our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Operations Any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized disclosure of data, or theft or tampering of intellectual property, any of which could materially adversely impact our business. Our operations, products, solutions, analysis and intellectual property are inherently at risk of loss, inappropriate access or use, or tampering by both insider threats and external bad actors. In particular, as a defense contractor, we face various cyber and other security threats, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information and networks; insider threats; threats to the safety of our directors, officers and employees; threats to the security and viability of our facilities, infrastructure and supply chain; and threats from state-sponsored and otherwise sophisticated actors, terrorist acts or other acts of aggression. Our customers and partners (including our supply chain and joint ventures and our service providers) face similar threats and growing requirements. Customer or partner proprietary, classified, or sensitive information stored on our networks is at risk. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate the risk of these threats, there can be no assurance that these 19 procedures and controls will be sufficient. We have suffered incidents of physical intrusions to our facilities in the past. Any further incidents or other security breaches or incidents suffered by us or those on which we rely could lead to losses or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information or capabilities; unauthorized access to infrastructure or equipment theft or loss of, or unauthorized access to, use of, or other processing of data; harm to personnel, infrastructure or products; regulatory actions; and/or financial liabilities. Further, any such event, or any perception any such event has occurred, could result in private claims, demands and litigation, regulatory investigations and other proceedings, fines, penalties, and other liabilities as well as potential damage to our reputation as a government contractor and provider of cyber-related or cyber-protected goods and services. Cyber and other security threats are continuously evolving and include, but are not limited to: malicious software, destructive malware, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, disruption or denial of service attacks, phishing and other social engineering attacks, and other physical and electronic security breaches and incidents that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems; unauthorized release of confidential, personal or otherwise protected information (our information or that of our employees, customers or partners); corruption of data, networks or systems; harm to individuals; and loss of assets. Threats to and vulnerabilities in our systems and infrastructure and those of our partners may result from human error, fraud or malice on the part of our employees, third-party service providers and other partners or by malicious third parties, including state-sponsored organizations with significant financial and technological resources, or from accidental technological failure. Some actors now engage and are expected to continue to engage in cyber-attacks, including without limitation nation-state actors for geopolitical reasons and in conjunction with military conflicts and defense activities. During times of war and other major conflicts, we, and the third parties upon which we rely, may be vulnerable to a heightened risk of these attacks, including retaliatory cyber-attacks, that could materially disrupt our systems and operations, supply chain, and ability to produce, sell and distribute our goods and services. In addition, we could be impacted by cyber threats or other disruptions or vulnerabilities found in products we use or in our partners or customers systems that are used in connection with our business. Any of these events, if not prevented or effectively mitigated, could damage our reputation, require remedial actions and other actions in response, and lead to loss of business and harm to our market position, regulatory investigations and proceedings, potential claims, litigation, and other proceedings, fines, penalties, and liability and other financial losses. We may face difficulties or delays in identifying, responding to, and otherwise mitigating security breaches and incidents, and in the event of any security event, we may be required or find it appropriate to expend increased financial and other resources in an effort to prevent and otherwise address security breaches and incidents. We provide systems, products and services to various customers (both governmental and commercial) who also face cyber threats. Our systems, products and services may themselves be subject to cyber threats and/or they may not be able to detect or properly deter threats, or effectively mitigate resulting losses. These losses could adversely affect our customers and our company. The impact of these various factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could result in the loss of information or capabilities, harm to individuals or property, damage to our reputation, loss of business, contractual or regulatory actions and potential liabilities, and perception or report that any such security breach or incident may harm our reputation and market position, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. We could be forced to expend significant financial and operational resources in response to any actual or perceived security breach or security incident, including in repairing system damage, increasing cybersecurity protection costs by deploying additional personnel and modifying or enhancing our protection technologies, investigating and remediating any information security vulnerabilities, notifying affected individuals and otherwise remediating or responding to any such breach or incident, and litigating and resolving regulatory investigations and other proceedings and legal claims and litigation, all of which could divert resources and the attention of our management and key personnel. We do not currently process classified data on our systems. However, a cyber or physical security event that involves classified or other sensitive government information or certain controlled technical information, could subject us to civil or criminal penalties and could result in loss of our facility security clearance and other accreditations, loss of our government contracts, loss of access to classified information, loss of export privileges or debarment as a government contractor. 20 Cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents could result in the compromise of confidential data or critical data systems and give rise to potential harm to customers, remediation and other expenses under consumer protection laws or other laws or common law theories, subject us to litigation and federal and state governmental inquiries, damage our reputation, and otherwise be disruptive to our business and operations. Cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. We collect and store on our networks sensitive information, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal data of individuals, such as our customers and employees. The secure maintenance of this information and technology is critical to our business operations. We have implemented multiple layers of security measures designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, availability and privacy of this data and the systems and devices that store and transmit such data. We utilize current security technologies, and our defenses are monitored and routinely tested internally. Despite these efforts, threats from malicious persons and groups, new vulnerabilities and advanced new attacks against information systems create risk of cybersecurity incidents. These incidents can include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate these incidents or techniques, timely discover them, or implement adequate preventative measures. These threats can come from a variety of sources, ranging in sophistication from an individual hacker to malfeasance by employees, consultants or other service providers to state-sponsored attacks. Cyber threats may be generic, or they may be custom-crafted against our information systems. Over the past several years, cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and much harder to detect and defend against. Our network and storage applications and other systems used in our business and operations may be vulnerable to cyber-attack, malicious intrusion, ransomware or other malicious software, malfeasance, loss of data privacy or other significant disruption and may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers, employees, consultants or other service providers. In addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through fraud, trickery or other forms of deceiving our employees, contractors and temporary staff. Further, with the COVID-19 pandemic having resulted in a significant number of people working remotely, the cybersecurity risks we face may be heightened by an increased attack surface across our business and those of our service providers and other third parties we work with. Additionally, in connection with Russias actions in Ukraine, cybersecurity researchers have warned of the potential for increases cybersecurity activity. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to cybersecurity incidents that bypass our security measures, impact the integrity, availability or privacy of data, including data that may be subject to privacy or security laws or disrupt our information systems, devices or business. As a result, cybersecurity, physical security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our enterprise, information systems and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any cybersecurity vulnerabilities. The occurrence of any of these events, or the perception any such event has occurred, could result in: harm to customers; business interruptions and delays; the loss, misappropriation, corruption or unauthorized access to, or alteration or unavailability of data; the loss of the ability to communicate with our satellites or for our satellites to communicate with our ground stations; claims, demands and litigation, including potential class action litigation, and potential liability under privacy, security and consumer protection laws or other applicable laws; notification to governmental agencies, the media and/or affected individuals pursuant to various federal, state and international privacy and security laws; 21 regulatory fines and sanctions; reputational damage; increase to insurance premiums; and foreign, federal and state governmental inquiries, investigations and other proceedings. Any of the foregoing events could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and operating results and harm our business reputation. We maintain cyber liability insurance policies covering certain security and privacy damages. However, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Risks related to cybersecurity will increase as we continue to grow the scale and functionality of our geospatial data and analytics platform and process, store, and transmit increasingly large amounts of our customers information and data, which may include proprietary or confidential data or personal data. We depend on computing infrastructure operated by Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft, and other third parties, including other SaaS companies, to support some of our customers and any errors, disruption, performance problems, or failure in their or our operational infrastructure could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely on the technology, infrastructure, and software applications, including software-as-a-service offerings, of certain third parties, such as AWS and Microsoft Azure, in order to operate some or all of certain key features or functions of our business, including deployment of our cloud-based imagery services and other geospatial and data analytic services, customer relationship management activities, billing and order management, and financial accounting services. We do not have control over the operations of the facilities of the third parties that we use. If any of these third-party services experience errors, disruptions, security issues, or other performance deficiencies, if they are updated such that they become incompatible, if these services, software, or hardware fail or become unavailable due to extended outages, interruptions, defects, or otherwise, or if they are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms or prices (or at all), these issues could result in errors or defects in the delivery of our products and services that include the development, integration, and operations of satellite and ground systems, our revenue and margins could decline, or our reputation and brand could be damaged, we could be exposed to legal or contractual liability, our expenses could increase, our ability to manage our operations could be interrupted, and our processes for managing our sales and servicing our customers could be impaired until equivalent services or technology, if available, are identified, procured, and implemented, all of which may take significant time and resources, increase our costs, and could adversely affect our business. Many of these third-party providers attempt to impose limitations on their liability for such errors, disruptions, defects, performance deficiencies, or failures, and if enforceable, we may have additional liability to our customers or third-party providers. Our business is dependent upon our ability to keep pace with the latest technological changes. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards and, as we try to define a new market for first-to-know insights, the need to evolve is even more acute. Failure to respond in a timely and cost-effective way to these technological developments would result in serious harm to our business and operating results. We have derived, and we expect to continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenue from providing products and services that are based upon todays leading technologies and that are capable of adapting to future technologies. As a result, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market service offerings that respond in a timely manner to the technological advances and needs of our customers, and evolving industry standards. We believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new offerings and technologies or to adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming 22 arrangements. These expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies or identification of and expansion into new markets. Due to the design complexity of our products, we may, in the future, experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. Any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. In addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our products and services will develop or continue to expand or that we will be successful in newly identified markets as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. Market acceptance of our commercial high-resolution imagery and related products and services depends on a number of factors, including the quality, scope, timeliness, sophistication, price and the availability of substitute products and services. We cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our technologies or develop technologies that better meet the needs of our customers. The possibility exists that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings that might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. If we fail to develop, manufacture, and market innovative technologies or services that meet customers requirements or our technologies and services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly as compared to our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be negatively impacted and our business may not continue to grow in line with historical rates or at all. If we are unable to achieve sustained growth, we may be unable to execute our business strategy, expand our business or fund other liquidity needs and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by insurance. For example, if one or more of our satellite launches result in catastrophic failure or one or more of our in-orbit satellites or payloads fail, and we have not obtained insurance coverage or have not obtained sufficient insurance coverage, we could be required to record significant impairment charges for the satellite or payload. We endeavor to obtain insurance coverage from established insurance carriers to cover certain risks and liabilities related to our business. However, the amount of insurance coverage that we maintain may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities. Existing coverage may be canceled while we remain exposed to the risk and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks, natural hazards and liabilities. While we maintain insurance to cover certain risks and liabilities related to our business, we have not historically obtained and may not maintain launch or in-orbit insurance coverage for our satellites to address the risk of potential systemic anomalies, failures, collisions with our satellites or other satellites or debris, or catastrophic events affecting the existing satellite system. If one or more of our in-orbit uninsured satellites or payloads fail, one or more of our uninsured satellites is destroyed during failed launch, or if we have not obtained sufficient insurance for a particular event, we could be required to record significant impairment charges for the satellite or payload. We may review the purchase of launch insurance on a case-by-case basis evaluating the launch history of our launch provider, number of satellites to be deployed on the launch vehicle, the status of our constellation, our ability to launch additional satellites in the near term, and the cost of insurance, among other factors. We will evaluate risks associated with our satellite business and strive to ensure that such risks are appropriately insured. In some instances, we may not maintain launch or in-orbit insurance coverage for our satellites. Although we maintain insurance policies, we cannot provide assurance that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to potential future claims or that these levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or at all. A successful liability claim could result in substantial cost to us. Even if we are fully insured as it relates to a claim, the claim could nevertheless diminish our brand and divert managements attention and resources, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, any business interruption losses could exceed the coverage available or be excluded from our insurance policies. Any disruption of our ability to operate our business could result in a material decrease in our revenue or significant additional costs to replace, 23 repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Issues in the use of artificial intelligence (AI), including machine learning, in our geospatial data and analytics platforms may result in reputational harm or liability. AI is enabled by or integrated into some of our geospatial data and analytics platforms and is a growing element of our business offerings. As with many developing technologies, AI presents risks and challenges that could affect its further development, adoption, and use, and therefore our business. AI algorithms may be flawed. Datasets may be insufficient, of poor quality, or contain biased information. Inappropriate or controversial data practices by data scientists, engineers, and end-users of our systems could impair the acceptance of AI solutions. If the recommendations, forecasts, or analyses that AI applications assist in producing are deficient or inaccurate, we could be subjected to competitive harm, potential legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. Some AI scenarios present ethical issues. Though our technologies and business practices are designed to mitigate many of these risks, if we enable or offer AI solutions that are controversial because of their purported or real impact on our financial condition and operations or the financial condition and operations of our customers, we may experience competitive harm, legal liability and brand or reputational harm. Our products and services are complex and could have unknown defects or errors, which may increase our costs, harm our reputation with customers, give rise to costly litigation, or divert our or our customers resources from other purposes. We devote substantial resources to research and development, which could cause our operating results to decline. Our products and services, including our satellites, satellite systems, and ground station infrastructure, are extremely complex and must operate successfully with complex hardware and software from other vendors. Despite testing, our Spectra AI platform and products have contained defects and errors and may in the future contain defects or errors, or experience performance problems when first introduced, when new versions or enhancements are released, or even after these products have been used by our customers for a period of time. We also employ sophisticated design and testing processes and practices for our satellites and satellite systems, which include a range of stringent factory and on-site acceptance tests with criteria and requirements that are jointly developed with customers. Our systems may not be successfully implemented, pass required acceptance criteria, or operate or give the desired output, or we may not be able to detect and fix all defects in the satellites and our products and services. These problems could result in expensive and time-consuming design modifications or warranty charges, delays in the introduction of new products or enhancements, significant increases in our service and maintenance costs, diversion of our personnels attention from our product development efforts, exposure to liability for damages, damaged customer relationships, and harm to our reputation, any of which could materially harm our results of operations. In addition, increased development costs could be substantial and could reduce our operating margins. The existence of any defects, errors, or failures in our products or the misuse of our products could also lead to lawsuits against us, result in injury, death, or property damage, and significantly damage our reputation and support for our products and services in general. Alleviating any of these problems could require additional significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licenses, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. In addition, our products and services integrate a wide variety of other elements, and our products and services must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors and our customers internally developed software. As a result, when problems occur for a customer using our products and services, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. The occurrence of software errors or errors in data, whether or not caused by our products and services, could delay or reduce market acceptance of our products and services and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance, and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. In addition, we may not deliver or maintain interoperability quickly or cost-effectively, or at all. These efforts require capital investment and engineering resources. If we fail to maintain the compatibility of our products 24 and services with our customers network and security infrastructures, our customers may not be able to fully adopt our offerings, and we may, among other consequences, experience reduced demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, the incorrect or improper implementation or use of our software, our failure to train customers on how to benefit from full utilization of our platform, or our failure to provide support services to our customers may result in errors or loss of data and as a result, dissatisfied customers, negative publicity, and harm to our reputation and brand, or legal claims against us. We have limited experience with respect to determining the optimal prices and pricing structures for our products and services. We expect that we may need to change our pricing model from time to time, including as a result of competition, global economic conditions, reductions in our customers spending levels generally, changes in product mix, pricing studies or changes in how information technology infrastructure is broadly consumed. Similarly, as we introduce new products and services, or as a result of the evolution of our existing products and services, we may have difficulty determining the appropriate price structure for our products and services. In addition, as new and existing competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, or revise their pricing structures, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as we have used historically. Moreover, as we continue to target selling our products and services to larger organizations, these larger organizations may demand substantial price concessions. As a result, we may be required from time to time to revise our pricing structure or reduce our prices, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to meet our service level commitments, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our agreements with customers and resellers may provide for service level commitments, which contain specifications regarding the availability and performance of our products and services such as assured access and guaranteed capacity. Any failure of or disruption to our infrastructure could impact the performance of our satellites and the availability of our products and services to our customers. If we are unable to meet our stated service level commitments or if we suffer extended periods of poor performance or unavailability of our products and services, we may be contractually obligated to provide affected customers with service credits for future subscriptions, and, in certain cases, face contract termination with refunds of prepaid amounts. If we suffer performance issues or downtime that exceeds the service level commitments under our contracts with our customers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be harmed if we are unable to cross-sell our solutions. A significant component of our growth strategy is to increase the cross-selling of our products and services to current and future customers, however, we may not be successful in doing so if our customers find our additional solutions to be unnecessary or unattractive. We have invested, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in developing and acquiring additional solutions, which resources may not be recovered if we are unable to successfully cross-sell these solutions to customers using our existing solutions. Any failure to sell additional solutions to current and future customers could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Any failure to offer high-quality technical support may harm our relationships with our customers and have a negative impact on our business and financial condition. Our customers depend on our customer support team to resolve technical and operational issues relating to our products and services. Our ability to provide effective customer support is largely dependent on our ability to attract, train, and retain qualified personnel with experience in supporting customers with products and services such as 25 ours. The number of our customers has grown significantly and that has and will put additional pressure on our customer support team, especially as we expand our hours of operation. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for technical support. We also may be unable to modify the scope and delivery of our technical support to compete with changes in the technical support provided by our competitors. Increased customer demand for support, without corresponding revenue, could increase costs and negatively affect our operating results. As we continue to grow our operations and expand internationally, we need to be able to provide efficient customer support that meets our customers needs globally at scale and our customer support team will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training, and documentation in languages other than English. If we are unable to provide efficient customer support globally at scale, our ability to grow our operations may be harmed and we may need to hire additional support personnel, which could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, we provide self-service support resources to our customers. Some of these resources rely on engagement and collaboration with other partners. If we are unable to continue to develop self-service support resources that are easy to use and that our customers utilize to resolve their technical issues, customers may continue to direct support requests to our customer support team instead of relying on our self-service support resources and our customers experience with our geospatial data and analytics platform may be negatively impacted. Any failure to maintain high-quality support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could harm our reputation, our ability to sell our products and services to existing and prospective customers, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. If we identify material weaknesses in the future, or otherwise fail to develop and maintain an effective system of internal controls, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be adversely affected, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and the value of our Class A common stock. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance to our management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected on a timely basis. We may discover control deficiencies in the future, and we cannot assure you that we will not have a material weakness in future periods. If we are unable to successfully remediate any future material weakness and otherwise to establish and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, the reliability of our financial reporting, investor confidence in us and the value of our Class A common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Similarly, if our remedial measures are insufficient to address any future material weakness on a timely basis, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. Additionally, the process of designing and implementing internal control over financial reporting required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will be time consuming, costly and complicated. Moreover, the effectiveness of our