ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis presents financial information denominated in millions of dollars which can lead to differences from rounding when compared to similar information contained in the consolidated financial statements and related notes which are primarily denominated in thousands of dollars. Executive Summary We are the worlds leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good communitynonprofits, higher education institutions, K12 schools, healthcare organizations, faith communities, arts and cultural organizations, foundations, companies and individual change agents we connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through cloud software, services, expertise and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics. Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina, and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom. Our revenue is primarily generated from the following sources: (i) charging for the use of our software solutions in cloud and hosted environments; (ii) providing payment and transaction services; (iii) providing software maintenance and support services; and (iv) providing professional services, including implementation, consulting, training, analytic and other services. COVID-19 Impact The outbreak of COVID-19 in numerous countries across the globe, including each country in which we currently operate, has adversely impacted the U.S. and global economies. We began 2020 with strong execution against our financial plan. In March 2020, we began to experience disruptions to our business from COVID-19, and the pandemic continues to impact each of our markets. To better enable us to weather the extraordinary business challenges occasioned by the global COVID-19 pandemic, to protect the safety and welfare of our employees, and to further effect our long-term strategy to deliver the greatest value to our stockholders, we have taken several actions. These initial measures taken are expected to provide us the financial flexibility needed to manage a wide array of outcomes that may result from the pandemic and create over $300 million of additional annualized borrowing capacity. Some of these actions include the following: Enacted our business continuity plans so that we can continue to serve our customers while protecting the well-being of our employees; Closed our offices worldwide and transitioned our more than 3,600 global employees to work remotely; Rescinded our previously announced policy to pay an annual dividend at a rate of $0.48 per share of common stock and discontinued the declaration and payment of all cash dividends, beginning with the second quarter of 2020 and thereafter until such time, if any, as our Board of Directors may otherwise determine in its sole discretion; Temporarily suspended our 401(k) match program, whereby we have historically matched 50% of qualified U.S. employees' contributions to our 401(k) plan up to 6% of their salaries, effective with the payroll period commencing April 1, 2020; Temporarily froze our hiring efforts; Michael Gianoni, our President and Chief Executive Officer, elected to forego receipt of all but that portion of his base salary necessary to fund, on a pre-tax basis, his contributions to continue to participate in our health benefits plan, effective with the payroll period commencing April 1, 2020 and until Mr. Gianoni otherwise determines; Restricted non-essential employee travel and put in place other operating cost reductions; All of our employees with a base salary equal to or less than $75 thousand received financial support in the form of a one-time bonus of $1 thousand on April 30, 2020; 20 First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) On May 1, 2020, we granted restricted stock units ("RSUs") to our employees that were eligible for base salary merit increases in lieu of such increases, which will vest on May 1, 2021 subject to the recipient's continued employment with us; and On May 1, 2020, we granted performance-based restricted stock units ("PRSUs") to our employees that were eligible for a 2020 cash bonus plan in lieu of such cash bonus, which may be earned and become eligible for vesting on May 1, 2021 subject to meeting certain performance conditions and the recipient's continued employment with us. In addition to the initial actions we have taken to date, we are continuously evaluating further possible actions in order to respond quickly to rapidly changing conditions, if needed. The economic impact of COVID-19 on the social good industry remains uncertain and, consequently, we expect that our operating environment may continue to be challenging for the remainder of 2020, and potentially beyond, as existing and prospective customers remain cautious in their purchase decisions. Notwithstanding these conditions, we remain focused on continuing to execute our four-point growth strategy and strengthening our leadership position. Four-Point Growth Strategy 1 Delight Customers with Innovative Cloud Solutions 2 Drive Sales Effectiveness 3 Expand Total Addressable Market 4 Improve Operating Efficiency 1. Delight Customers with Innovative Cloud Solutions Many of our customers have had to cancel or postpone their planned in-person fundraising events due to COVID-19 and our agile engineering teams have moved quickly to respond to these customers. We have been reprioritizing and expediting product enhancements to support their changing needs. Examples range from pivoting to virtual fitness events to putting new livestream fundraising tools in the hands of both organizations and individuals. This industry has been undergoing a digital transformation in which we have been the global leader and that has accelerated in recent weeks. Our move over the last several years to cloud solutions purpose-built for vertical markets has proved to be the right strategy as this crisis has highlighted how important modern, scalable, and secure cloud systems are now a required standard. 2. Drive Sales Effectiveness We have been investing in sales and marketing to better address our large market opportunity and, as part of this effort, we have implemented software tools to enhance our digital footprint and drive efficiency. The investments we have made enable us to quickly adapt to changing market conditions, including competitive opportunities. Our ability to ensure business continuity for our customers, perform at scale and pivot to offer solutions to the changing needs of our customers has become a new differentiator for us, and we have moved quickly to capitalize on these early opportunities by leveraging our enhanced go-to-market capabilities. While the disruption caused by the virus has caused some deal pipeline to push out to our second quarter and the second half of 2020, we have been able to showcase ourselves as the best long-term partner for social good organizations and we remain very well positioned as a leader in this market. As part of our cost control measures, we have put a freeze on hiring across the company, including sales. 3. Expand TAM While we remain active in the evaluation of opportunities to further expand our addressable market through acquisitions and internal product development, our top priority in the near-term is protecting our people and continuing to support our customers. We have significant opportunities in front of us as we are less than 10% penetrated into a total addressable market of over $10 billion. First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q 21 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) 4. Improve Operating Efficiency We have made transformational changes to our business, which has created a scalable operating model that has been tested with this global crisis. Our internal IT and organization structure changes over the last several years enabled us to immediately go virtual and have all of our global employees working from home as if they continued to come into the office every day, allowing our high level of support to continue. Our support teams immediately became an efficient mobile call center. Not only did the team maintain service levels, but they have driven customer satisfaction levels into the high nineties. Our implementation services teams had previously moved to a largely remote implementation model before this crisis and are fully equipped to continue customer engagements uninterrupted. We have reorganized our business to focus on vertical go-to-market teams with a centralized back-office consisting of global centers of excellence, and those changes are now benefiting us. Financial Summary Total revenue ($M) Income from operations ($M) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Total revenue increased by $7.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 , driven largely by the following: + Growth in recurring revenue related to an increase in payment services, positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud solutions and an increase in services embedded in our renewable cloud solution contracts + An increase in revenue from sales of retained and managed services Income from operations increased by $6.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 , driven largely by the following: + Growth in total revenue, as described above + Decrease in employee severance of $3.3 million related to the elimination of certain roles within the company, most of which occurred during the first quarter of 2019 + Decrease in restructuring costs of $1.9 million as our facilities optimization plan was largely completed as of December 31, 2019 + Decrease in acquisition-related expenses and integration costs of $1.1 million + Decrease in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.1 million - Increase in cost of revenue of $5.6 million related to increases in transaction-based costs, amortization of software development costs, third-party contractor costs and data center costs - Increased investments we have made in our sales organization, including the elevated headcount of our direct sales force and our lead generation teams beginning in the fourth quarter of 2018 22 First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) There are three primary revenue categories with related business drivers that we continue to monitor closely in light of the COVID-19 pandemic: 1. Contractual Recurring Revenue (approximately two thirds of total revenue in 2019) Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception, billed annually in advance, and we have been for several years successfully shifting our legacy customer base away from annual renewals and moving them onto multi-year renewal contracts. Approximately one-half of our contracted recurring revenue will be up for renewal during 2020, with the seasonal high for renewals and collections during the third quarter driven largely by mid-year fiscal year-ends and timing of the academic school year. To date, our renewal rates are trending ahead of our pre-COVID-19 expectations. We are monitoring our customer receivable balances, payment terms, and creditworthiness and have not experienced a significant deterioration in our customers' ability to pay thus far. 2. Transactional Revenue (approximately one quarter of total revenue in 2019) Transactional revenue is non-contractual and less predictable given the susceptibility to certain drivers such as timing and number of events and marketing campaigns, as well as fluctuations in donation volumes and tuition payments. We have historically experienced seasonal highs during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving campaigns and during the second quarter when a large number of events are held. The early disruptions caused by COVID-19 drove sharp initial declines in our transactional volumes. In recent weeks, we have seen a rebound in volume in the form of online events and campaigns as our customers look for innovative ways to close funding gaps. We are focused on helping our customers successfully stand up virtual campaigns and events. 3. Bookings Given our ratable revenue recognition model for our recurring subscription contracts and implementation periods, we expect that any declines in our 2020 bookings performance will have a greater impact on our 2021 revenue than 2020. Of the three primary revenue categories discussed above, bookings represents the smallest potential impact on recurring revenue in 2020. One-time services and other revenue, which is tied to bookings, would have a more immediate impact on our total revenue. Our first quarter has historically been the seasonal low for bookings, with the second and fourth quarters historically being seasonally higher, and our bookings tend to be back-end loaded within individual quarters given our quarterly quota plans. Bookings fell off sharply in the second half of March 2020, and we have seen a slow-down in pipeline build. We are currently expecting a significant shortfall in 2020 bookings compared to our original plan for the year. The magnitude of our 2020 bookings shortfall is expected to be heavily impacted by the depth and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have enabled our teams to offer relief measures to help ease the financial burden for our customers with near-term liquidity needs. For example, we have allowed, on a limited basis, for a 60-day extension on payment terms which will delay cash collections. However, we expect the impact to be largely offset during the third quarter. We have also partnered to offer zero-percent financing options for some customers on a case-by-case basis, and we continue to monitor and inform our customers on the available government assistance programs. Customer retention First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q 23 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud subscription delivery model. In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs. Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides a better representation of our customers' overall behavior. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2020 , approximately 92% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained. This customer retention rate is unchanged from our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2019. Balance sheet and cash flow At March 31, 2020 , our cash and cash equivalents were $25.0 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $525.8 million . Our net leverage ratio was 2.61 to 1.00 . During the three months ended March 31, 2020 , we used $24.5 million in cash for operations, had a net increase in our borrowings of $58.6 million , returned $6.0 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had aggregate cash outlays of $13.8 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter and the payment of certain annual vendor contracts, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter. 24 First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Results of Operations Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Revenue and Cost of Revenue Recurring Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, retained and managed services contracts that we expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions. Cost of recurring revenue is primarily comprised of compensation costs for customer support and production IT personnel, hosting expenses, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty and data expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations, amortization of software development costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services including remittances of amounts due to third-parties and other costs incurred in providing support and recurring services to our customers. We continued to experience growth in sales of our cloud solutions as a percentage of total revenue as our customers continue to prefer cloud subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services. Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth. Recurring revenue increased by $6.8 million , or 3.4% , during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 , driven primarily by the following: + Increase in subscriptions revenue of $10.6 million related to an increase in payment services, positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud solutions and an increase in services embedded in our renewable cloud solution contracts - Decrease in maintenance revenue of $3.9 million primarily related to our continuing efforts to migrate customers from legacy on-premises solutions onto our solutions powered by Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform Partially offsetting the increase in subscriptions revenue was a decrease in the mix of retained and managed services contracts we present in recurring. Revenue from retained and managed service contracts that we do not expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts is included in one-time services and other revenue beginning January First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q 25 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) 1, 2020. This change in presentation resulted in a $4.3 million decrease in recurring revenue and an offsetting increase to one-time services and other revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2020. Cost of recurring revenue increased by $4.8 million , or 5.7% , during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 , driven primarily by the following: + Increase in transaction-based costs of $2.3 million, related to payment services integrated in our cloud solutions + Increase in amortization of software development costs of $1.4 million due to investments made on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud solutions + Increase in third-party contractor costs of $1.2 million related to application security and partners delivering services embedded in our renewable cloud solution contracts + Increase in data center costs as we are migrating our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers - Decrease in costs associated with certain retained and managed services contracts for which revenue is included in one-time services and other revenue beginning January 1, 2020, as discussed above The 0.9% decrease in recurring gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 , was primarily the result of incremental costs associated with our continued shift toward selling cloud solutions, including amortization of software development costs and data center costs. We expect continued pressure on recurring gross margin largely driven by duplicate data center costs as we migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading cloud service providers. One-time services and other Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, fees for retained and managed services contracts that we do not expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, fees from user conferences and third-party software referral fees. Cost of one-time services and other is primarily comprised of compensation costs for professional services and onsite training personnel, other costs incurred in providing onsite customer training, third-party contractor expenses, data expense incurred to perform one-time analytic services, third-party software royalties, costs of user conferences, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations. 26 First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) One-time services and other revenue increased by $1.0 million , or 5.7% , during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 , driven primarily by the following: + Increase in the mix of retained and managed services contracts we present in one-time services and other. Revenue from retained and managed service contracts that we do not expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts is included in one-time services and other revenue beginning January 1, 2020. This change in presentation resulted in a $4.3 million increase to one-time services and other revenue and an offsetting decrease in recurring revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2020. - Decrease in one-time consulting revenue of $1.7 million. Services are increasingly embedded in our renewable cloud solution contracts. Our embedded services are recorded as recurring revenue. - Decrease in one-time analytics revenue of $0.9 million as analytics are generally integrated in our cloud solutions Cost of one-time services and other increased by $0.7 million , or 5.1% , during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 , driven primarily by the following: + Increase in costs of associated with certain retained and managed services contracts for which revenue is included in one-time services and other revenue beginning January 1, 2020, as discussed above + Increase in third-party contractor costs of $0.9 million, related to partners delivering services - Reduced amount of compensation costs primarily associated with the decision to replace our 2020 cash bonus plans with grants of performance-based equity awards The 0.5% increase in one-time services and other gross margin during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 , was primarily the result of the decision to replace our 2020 cash bonus plans with grants of performance-based equity awards. Operating Expenses Sales, marketing and customer success ($M) Research and development ($M) General and administrative ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue Sales, marketing and customer success Sales, marketing and customer success expense includes compensation costs, variable sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs, variable reseller commissions and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We see a large market opportunity and continue to make investments to improve market coverage and drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy. We have also implemented software tools to enhance our digital footprint and drive lead generation. Sales, marketing and customer success expenses increased by $3.3 million , or 5.9% , during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 . The increases in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue were primarily driven by an increase in compensation costs of $2.6 million primarily associated with the elevated headcount of our direct sales force and our lead generation teams, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2018. The increase in compensation costs related to elevated headcount was partially First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) offset by the decision in March 2020 to replace our 2020 cash bonus plans with grants of performance-based equity awards. Research and development Research and development expense includes compensation costs for engineering and product management personnel, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new solutions or upgrading and enhancing existing solutions that do not qualify for capitalization, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We continue to make investments to delight our customers with innovative cloud solutions, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy. Research and development expenses decreased by $3.5 million , or 12.2% , during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 , primarily driven by the following: - Decrease in compensation costs of $1.8 million primarily associated with the decision in March 2020 to replace our 2020 cash bonus plans with grants of performance-based equity awards - Decrease in employee severance costs of $1.2 million related to the elimination of certain roles within the company, most of which occurred during the first quarter of 2019 Not included in research and development expense for 2020 and 2019 were $10.8 million and $11.1 million , respectively, of qualifying costs associated with development activities that are required to be capitalized under the internal-use software accounting guidance such as those for our cloud solutions, as well as development costs associated with acquired companies. Qualifying capitalized software development costs associated with our cloud solutions are subsequently amortized to cost of subscriptions revenue over the related asset's estimated useful life, which generally range from three to seven years. We expect that the amount of software development costs capitalized will be relatively consistent in the near-term as we continue making investments in innovation, quality and the integration of our solutions, which we believe will drive long-term revenue growth. General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, third-party professional fees, insurance, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased by $1.3 million , or 4.7% , during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 , primarily driven by the following: + Increase in corporate IT costs of $0.8M, including cyber security investments - Reduced amount of compensation costs primarily associated with the decision in March 2020 to replace our 2020 cash bonus plans with grants of performance-based equity awards - Decrease in acquisition-related expenses and integration costs of $1.1 million Restructuring During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives, including improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments, which was substantially completed as of December 2019. We incurred $2.0 million in before-tax restructuring charges related to our facilities optimization plan during the three months ended March 31, 2019 . Such charges during the three months ended March 31, 2020 were insignificant. 28 First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Interest Expense Three months ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2020 2019 Change Interest expense $ 4.2 $ 5.3 (21.9 )% % of total revenue 1.9 % 2.5 % The decrease in interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 , was primarily due to decreases in our average daily borrowings and our weighted average effective interest rates. Deferred Revenue The table below compares the components of deferred revenue from our consolidated balance sheets: (dollars in millions) Timing of recognition March 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Change Recurring Over the period billed in advance, generally one year $ 277.2 $ 302.8 (8.4 )% One-time services and other As services are delivered 13.2 13.4 (1.2 )% Total deferred revenue (1) 290.4 316.1 (8.1 )% Less: Long-term portion 1.7 1.8 (4.8 )% Current portion (1) $ 288.7 $ 314.3 (8.2 )% (1) The individual amounts for each year may not sum to total deferred revenue or current portion of deferred revenue due to rounding. To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue. Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable. We generally invoice our customers with recurring revenue contracts in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of the contract term. Deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , primarily due to less customer billings. Historically, due to the timing of customer budget cycles, we have an increase in customer contract renewals at or near the beginning of our third quarter, which generally results in our lowest balance of deferred revenue at the end of our first quarter. We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue from customer arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recorded deferred revenue as of the acquisition date than the actual amounts paid in advance for solutions and services under those customer arrangements. Therefore, our deferred revenue after an acquisition will not reflect the full amount of deferred revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value. Further explanation of this impact is included below under the caption "Non-GAAP financial measures". Income tax provision (benefit) Three months ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2020 2019 Change Income tax provision (benefit) $ 0.7 $ (1.8 ) (137.9 )% Effective income tax rate 13.0 % 62.0 % The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) was signed into law on March 27, 2020. The CARES Act did not have a material impact on our provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2020. We will continue to analyze and monitor potential impact throughout the year. First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 , was primarily due to the impact of discrete tax benefits on pre-tax income for the quarter as compared to pre-tax loss for the same period in 2019 . Non-GAAP Financial Measures The operating results analyzed below are presented on a non-GAAP basis. We use non-GAAP revenue, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share internally in analyzing our operational performance. Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, in evaluating our ongoing operational performance. While we believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information, non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies. We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue under arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue than the contributed purchase price until the related obligations to provide services under such arrangements are fulfilled. Therefore, our GAAP revenues after the acquisitions will not reflect the full amount of revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value. The non-GAAP measures described below reverse the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-downs so that the full amount of revenue booked by the acquired companies is included, which we believe provides a more accurate representation of a revenue run-rate in a given period and, therefore, will provide more meaningful comparative results in future periods. The non-GAAP financial measures discussed below exclude the impact of certain transactions because we believe they are not directly related to our operating performance in any particular period, but are for our long-term benefit over multiple periods. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business. Three months ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2020 2019 Change GAAP Revenue $ 223.6 $ 215.8 3.6 % Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Acquisition-related deferred revenue write-down 0.7 (100.0 )% Non-GAAP revenue (1) $ 223.6 $ 216.5 3.3 % GAAP gross profit $ 118.8 $ 116.5 1.9 % GAAP gross margin 53.1 % 54.0 % Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Acquisition-related deferred revenue write-down 0.7 (100.0 )% Add: Stock-based compensation expense 0.9 1.0 (11.2 )% Add: Amortization of intangibles from business combinations 10.9 11.4 (4.3 )% Add: Employee severance 1.1 (97.1 )% Subtotal (1) 11.8 14.2 (16.9 )% Non-GAAP gross profit (1) $ 130.6 $ 130.8 (0.1 )% Non-GAAP gross margin 58.4 % 60.4 % (1) The individual amounts for each year may not sum to non-GAAP revenue, subtotal or non-GAAP gross profit due to rounding. 30 First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Three months ended March 31, (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2020 2019 Change GAAP income from operations $ 8.4 $ 2.2 285.5 % GAAP operating margin 3.8 % 1.0 % Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Acquisition-related deferred revenue write-down 0.7 (100.0 )% Add: Stock-based compensation expense 13.6 13.7 (1.1 )% Add: Amortization of intangibles from business combinations 11.7 12.8 (8.8 )% Add: Employee severance 0.1 3.4 (97.2 )% Add: Acquisition-related integration costs 0.7 (104.5 )% Add: Acquisition-related expenses 0.1 0.4 (68.8 )% Add: Restructuring costs 2.0 (98.8 )% Subtotal (1) 25.5 33.8 (24.6 )% Non-GAAP income from operations (1) $ 33.9 $ 36.0 (5.7 )% Non-GAAP operating margin 15.2 % 16.6 % GAAP income (loss) before provision for income taxes $ 5.3 $ (3.0 ) (280.5 )% GAAP net income (loss) $ 4.6 $ (1.1 ) (513.5 )% Shares used in computing GAAP diluted earnings (loss) pe r share 48,455,751 47,516,912 2.0 % GAAP diluted earnings (loss) pe r share $ 0.10 $ (0.02 ) (600.0 )% Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: GAAP income tax provision (benefit) 0.7 (1.8 ) (137.9 )% Add: Total non-GAAP adjustments affecting income from operations 25.5 33.8 (24.6 )% Non-GAAP income before provision for income taxes 30.8 30.8 % Assumed non-GAAP income tax provision (2) 6.2 6.2 % Non-GAAP net income (1) $ 24.7 $ 24.7 % Shares used in computing non-GAAP diluted earnings per share 48,455,751 48,051,289 0.8 % Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share $ 0.51 $ 0.51 % (1) The individual amounts for each year may not sum to subtotal, non-GAAP income from operations or non-GAAP net income due to rounding. (2) We apply a non-GAAP effective tax rate of 20.0% when calculating non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. Non-GAAP free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures, including costs required to be capitalized for software development, and capital expenditures for property and equipment. Three months ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2020 2019 Change GAAP net cash used in operating activities $ (24.5 ) $ (10.0 ) 144.8 % Less: purchase of property and equipment (2.9 ) (1.2 ) 148.9 % Less: capitalized software development costs (10.9 ) (11.3 ) (3.4 )% Non-GAAP free cash flow $ (38.3 ) $ (22.5 ) 70.4 % First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q 31 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Non-GAAP organic revenue growth In addition, we discuss non-GAAP organic revenue growth, non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis and non-GAAP organic recurring revenue growth, in analyzing our performance. We believe that these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, for evaluating the periodic growth of our business on a consistent basis. Each of these measures of non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year. For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and they include the non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP. In addition, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures excludes prior period revenue associated with divested businesses. The exclusion of the prior period revenue is to present the results of the divested businesses within the results of the combined company for the same period of time in both the prior and current periods. We believe this presentation provides a more comparable representation of our current business organic revenue growth and revenue run-rate. (dollars in millions) Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 GAAP revenue $ 223.6 $ 215.8 GAAP revenue growth 3.6 % Add: Non-GAAP acquisition-related revenue (1) 0.7 Non-GAAP organic revenue (2) $ 223.6 $ 216.5 Non-GAAP organic revenue growth 3.3 % Non-GAAP organic revenue (2) $ 223.6 $ 216.5 Foreign currency impact on Non-GAAP organic revenue (3) 0.3 Non-GAAP organic revenue on constant currency basis (3) $ 223.9 $ 216.5 Non-GAAP organic revenue growth on constant currency basis 3.4 % GAAP recurring revenue $ 204.9 $ 198.1 GAAP recurring revenue growth 3.4 % Add: Non-GAAP acquisition-related revenue (1) 0.7 Non-GAAP organic recurring revenue $ 204.9 $ 198.8 Non-GAAP organic recurring revenue growth 3.0 % (1) Non-GAAP acquisition-related revenue excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue calculated in accordance with GAAP that is attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year. For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, non-GAAP acquisition-related revenue reflects presentation of full-year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies, as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and it includes the non-GAAP revenue from the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-down attributable to those companies. (2) Non-GAAP organic revenue for the prior year periods presented herein will not agree to non-GAAP organic revenue presented in the respective prior period quarterly financial information solely due to the manner in which non-GAAP organic revenue growth is calculated. (3) To determine non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis, revenues from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated to U.S. Dollars using the comparable prior period's quarterly weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. The primary foreign currencies creating the impact are the Australian Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar and EURO. 32 First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Seasonality Our revenues normally fluctuate as a result of certain seasonal variations in our business. Our transaction revenue has historically been at its lowest in the first quarter due to the timing of customer fundraising initiatives and events. Our revenue from payment services has historically increased during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving. Our revenue from professional services has historically been lower in the first quarter when many of those services commence and in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. As a result of these and other factors, our total revenue has historically been lower in the first quarter than in the remainder of our fiscal year, with the fourth quarter historically achieving the highest total revenue. Our expenses, however, do not vary significantly as a result of these factors, but do fluctuate on a quarterly basis due to varying timing of expenditures. Our cash flow from operations normally fluctuates quarterly due to the combination of the timing of customer contract renewals including renewals associated with customers of acquired companies, delivery of professional services and occurrence of customer events, the payment of bonuses, as well as merit-based salary increases, among other factors. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter and the payment of certain annual vendor contracts, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter. Due to the timing of customer contract renewals and student enrollments, many of which take place at or near the beginning of our third quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lower in our second quarter as compared to our third and fourth quarters. Partially offsetting these favorable drivers of cash flow from operations in our third and fourth quarters are merit-based salary increases, which are generally effective in April each year. In addition, deferred revenues can vary on a seasonal basis for the same reasons. These patterns may change as a result of the continued shift to online giving, growth in volume of transactions for which we process payments, or as a result of acquisitions, new market opportunities, new solution introductions or other factors. Our cash flow from financing is negatively impacted in our first quarter when most of our equity awards vest, as we pay taxes on behalf of our employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information about our financial position: (dollars in millions) March 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Change Cash and cash equivalents $ 25.0 $ 31.8 (21.5 )% Property and equipment, net 35.7 35.5 0.3 % Software development costs, net 105.6 101.3 4.2 % Total carrying value of debt 530.9 467.1 13.7 % Working capital (194.2 ) (254.3 ) 23.6 % The following table presents selected financial information about our cash flows: Three months ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2020 2019 Change Net cash used in operating activities $ (24.5 ) $ (10.0 ) 144.8 % Net cash used in investing activities (13.8 ) (121.9 ) (88.7 )% Net cash used in financing activities (278.9 ) (74.4 ) 274.8 % Our principal sources of liquidity are our operating cash flow, funds available under the 2017 Credit Facility and cash on hand. Our operating cash flow depends on continued customer renewal of our subscription and maintenance arrangements, market acceptance of our solutions and services and our customers' ability to pay. Based on current estimates of revenue and expenses, we believe that the currently available sources of funds and anticipated cash flows from operations will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to finance our operations, fund anticipated capital expenditures and meet our debt obligations. To the extent we undertake future material acquisitions, investments or unanticipated capital expenditures, we may require additional capital. In that context, we regularly evaluate opportunities to enhance our capital structure including through potential debt or equity issuances. First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q 33 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) To better enable us to weather the extraordinary business challenges occasioned by the global COVID-19 pandemic, to protect the safety and welfare of our employees, and to further effect our long-term strategy to deliver the greatest value to our stockholders, we have taken several actions. These initial measures taken are expected to provide us the financial flexibility needed to manage a wide array of outcomes that may result from the pandemic and create over $300 million of additional annualized borrowing capacity. Some of these actions include the following: Rescinded our previously announced policy to pay an annual dividend at a rate of $0.48 per share of common stock and discontinued the declaration and payment of all cash dividends, beginning with the second quarter of 2020 and thereafter until such time, if any, as our Board of Directors may otherwise determine in its sole discretion; Temporarily suspended our 401(k) match program, whereby we have historically matched 50% of qualified U.S. employees' contributions to our 401(k) plan up to 6% of their salaries, effective with the payroll period commencing April 1, 2020; Temporarily froze our hiring efforts; Michael Gianoni, our President and Chief Executive Officer, elected to forego receipt of all but that portion of his base salary necessary to fund, on a pre-tax basis, his contributions to continue to participate in our health benefits plan, effective with the payroll period commencing April 1, 2020 and until Mr. Gianoni otherwise determines; Restricted non-essential employee travel and put in place other operating cost reductions; All of our employees with a base salary equal to or less than $75 thousand received financial support in the form of a one-time bonus of $1 thousand on April 30, 2020; On May 1, 2020, we granted RSUs to our employees that were eligible for base salary merit increases in lieu of such increases, which will vest on May 1, 2021 subject to the recipient's continued employment with us; and On May 1, 2020, we granted PRSUs to our employees that were eligible for a 2020 cash bonus plan in lieu of such cash bonus, which may be earned and become eligible for vesting on May 1, 2021 subject to meeting certain performance conditions and the recipient's continued employment with us. In addition to the initial actions we have taken to date, we are continuously evaluating further possible actions in order to respond quickly to rapidly changing conditions, if needed. We have not experienced a significant deterioration in our customers' ability to pay for our solutions or services due to COVID-19. We have received short-term payment relief requests as a result of COVID-19, most often in the form of payment deferral requests. We are evaluating each request on a case-by-case basis to assess the customer's ability to pay. Not all customer requests will ultimately result in modified payment terms, nor are we forgoing our contractual rights under customer agreements. We are continually monitoring our customer receivable balances, payment terms, and creditworthiness for changes that could have a significant impact on the collectability of our accounts receivables, our operating results and financial position. At March 31, 2020 , our total cash and cash equivalents balance included approximately $17.5 million of cash that was held by operations outside the U.S. While these funds may not be needed to fund our U.S. operations for at least the next twelve months, if we need these funds, we may be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate the funds. We currently do not intend nor anticipate a need to repatriate our cash held outside the U.S. Operating Cash Flow Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $14.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 , primarily due to a $21.0 million decrease in cash flow from operations associated with working capital, partially offset by a $6.5 million increase in net income adjusted for non-cash expenses. Throughout both periods, our cash flows from operations were derived principally from: (i) our earnings from on-going operations prior to non-cash expenses such as depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, amortization of deferred financing costs and debt discount and adjustments to our provision for credit losses and sales returns; and (ii) changes in our working capital. 34 First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Working capital changes are composed of changes in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and deferred revenue. The decrease in cash flow from operations associated with working capital during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 , was primarily due to: an increase in current period bonus payments as a result of an increase in amounts accrued as of December 31, 2019 for over-performance against 2019 targets; a decrease in the current period bonus accrual upon internally announcing the replacement of cash payments for our 2020 bonus plans with performance-based equity awards; and a larger decrease in deferred revenue during the first quarter of 2020 than the same period a year ago from less customer billings, as described above. Investing Cash Flow Net cash used in investing activities of $13.8 million decreased by $108.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , when compared to the same period in 2019 . During the three months ended March 31, 2019 , we used net cash of $109.4 million for our acquisition of YourCause and we did not make any similar investments during the same period in 2020. During the three months ended March 31, 2020 , we used $10.9 million for software development costs, which was relatively consistent with cash spent during the same period in 2019 . We continue to invest in our innovative cloud solutions, as well as development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform. We also spent $2.9 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , which was up $1.7 million from cash spent during the same period in 2019 . The higher cash outlays for property and equipment in 2020 were primarily driven by investments in the renovation of certain of our office spaces. Financing Cash Flow During the three months ended March 31, 2020 , we had a net increase in borrowings of $58.6 million . Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter. We paid $19.8 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement of equity awards during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $18.4 million during the same period in 2019 . The amount of taxes paid by us on the behalf of employees related to the settlement of equity awards varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting, as well as the market price for shares of our common stock at the time of settlement. Most of our equity awards currently vest in our first quarter. In addition, during the three months ended March 31, 2020 , we paid dividends of $6.0 million , which was relatively consistent with the comparable period of 2019 . Cash used in financing activities associated with changes in restricted cash due to customers decreased $68.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2020 when compared to the same period in 2019 , as the amount of restricted cash held and payable by us to customers as of December 31, 2019 was larger than at the same date in 2018. 2017 Credit Facility We have drawn on our credit facility from time to time to help us meet financial needs, such as financing for business acquisitions. At March 31, 2020 , our available borrowing capacity under the 2017 Credit Facility was $150.9 million . The 2017 Credit Facility matures in June 2022 . The 2017 Credit Facility includes an option to request additional term loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $200.0 million. At March 31, 2020 , the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $525.8 million . Our average daily borrowings during the three months ended March 31, 2020 were $491.4 million . First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q 35 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) The following is a summary of the financial covenants under our credit facility: Financial Covenant Requirement Ratio as of March 31, 2020 Net Leverage Ratio 3.50 to 1.00 2.61 to 1.00 Interest Coverage Ratio 2.50 to 1.00 10.02 to 1.00 Under the 2017 Credit Facility , we also have restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends and our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock. In order to pay any cash dividends and/or repurchase shares of stock: (i) no default or event of default shall have occurred and be continuing under the 2017 Credit Facility , and (ii) our pro forma net leverage ratio, as set forth in the 2017 Credit Facility , must be 0.25 less than the net leverage ratio requirement at the time of dividend declaration or share repurchase. At March 31, 2020, we were in compliance with our debt covenants under the 2017 Credit Facility. Commitments and Contingencies As of March 31, 2020 , we had contractual obligations with future minimum commitments as follows: Payments due by period (in millions) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Recorded contractual obligations: Debt (1) $ 532.0 $ 10.4 $ 521.6 $ $ Interest payments on debt (2) 6.0 4.6 1.4 Operating leases (3) 155.7 25.7 37.5 19.7 72.7 Unrecorded contractual obligations: Interest payments on debt (4) 23.2 10.1 13.1 Purchase obligations (5) 76.7 39.6 37.0 Total contractual obligations $ 793.4 $ 90.4 $ 610.6 $ 19.7 $ 72.7 (1) Represents principal payments only, under the following assumptions: (i) that the amounts outstanding under the 2017 Credit Facility and our other debt at March 31, 2020 will remain outstanding until maturity, with minimum payments occurring as currently scheduled, and (ii) that there are no assumed future borrowings on the 2017 Credit Facility for the purposes of determining minimum commitment amounts. (2) Represents interest payment obligations related to our interest rate swap agreements. (3) Our commitments related to operating leases have not been reduced by sublease income, incentive payments and reimbursement of leasehold improvements. (4) The actual interest expense recognized in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income will depend on the amount of debt, the length of time the debt is outstanding and the interest rate, which could be different from our assumptions described in (1) above. (5) We have contractual obligations for third-party technology used in our solutions and for other services we purchase as part of our normal operations. In certain cases, these arrangements require a minimum annual purchase commitment by us. The term loan under the 2017 Credit Facility requires periodic principal payments. The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022 . The total liability for uncertain tax positions as of March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 , was $4.3 million and $4.3 million , respectively. Our accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was $1.0 million as of March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2020 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. 36 First Quarter 2020 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Approximately 13% of our total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was generated from operations outside the U.S. We do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly inflationary. Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, changes in the exchange rate between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of our subsidiaries financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. The accumulated currency translation adjustment, recorded within accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of stockholders equity, was a loss of $9.7 million as of March 31, 2020 and a loss of $4.0 million as of December 31, 2019 . The vast majority of our contracts are entered into by our U.S. or U.K. entities. The contracts entered into by the U.S. entity are almost always denominated in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars, and contracts entered into by our U.K., Australian and Irish subsidiaries are generally denominated in British Pounds, Australian dollars and Euros, respectively. Historically, as the U.S. dollar weakened, foreign currency translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Conversely, as the U.S. dollar strengthened, foreign currency translation resulted in a decrease in our revenue and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. During the three months ended March 31, 2020 , foreign translation remained relatively flat in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Though we have exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily those between the U.S. dollar and both the British Pound and Canadian dollar, the impact has generally not been material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position. For the three months ended March 31, 2020 , the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates impacted our total revenue and our income from operations by an insignificant amount . We will continue monitoring such exposure and take action as appropriate. To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. These impacts are non-GAAP financial information and are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to those disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 . Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of the impact that recently issued accounting pronouncements are expected to have on our financial position and results of operations when adopted in the future, see Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements in this report.