ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis presents financial information denominated in millions of dollars which can lead to differences from rounding when compared to similar information contained in the unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes which are primarily denominated in thousands of dollars. Executive Summary We are the leading software provider exclusively dedicated to powering social impact. Serving the nonprofit and education sectors, companies committed to social responsibility and individual change makers, our essential software is built to accelerate impact in fundraising, nonprofit financial management, digital giving, grantmaking, corporate social responsibility and education management. A remote-first company, we have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom, supporting users in 100+ countries. Our revenue is primarily generated from the following sources: (i) charging for the use of our software solutions in cloud and hosted environments; (ii) providing payment and transaction services; and (iii) providing Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content. Update on Select Key Operational Initiatives Product Innovation and Delivery To maintain our market leadership position, we are accelerating the pace of innovation and new feature delivery to our customers. Our focus has been on two areas, generative artificial intelligence (AI) and enhancements that continue to improve the connectivity of our suite of solutions. These enhancements are aimed at improving fundraising outcomes while reducing the administrative burden of our end users. Some examples include: We have released a number of AI capabilities over the past few quarters, including new generative AI functionality for our JustGiving platform. During the first quarter of 2024, we released generative AI capabilities for Raisers Edge NXT, and we expect that Blackbaud Co-pilot will be available to our Raiser's Edge NXT customers soon. Using Blackbaud Co-pilot, users can ask ad hoc questions such as How can I improve my average donation size? and the tool will provide intelligent responses as well as recommended actions intended to drive that outcome. During the first quarter of 2024, our Online Giving and Prospect Insights capabilities were natively integrated into Raiser's Edge NXT. With these integrations, fundraising administrators can now drive a viral giving campaign, keep records of each donor interaction, identify new donation opportunities, and provide personalized messaging, all in one integrated experience. Last quarter, we announced our new optimized donation forms were coming to Raiser's Edge NXT. We now have a few hundred customers up and running with nearly a thousand more experimenting. We expect these forms to drive higher revenue for our customers and for Blackbaud. We include these exciting new features in our products at no additional cost, to increase the value our customers receive from their existing subscription. We are delivering more innovation, evolving our products and ensuring our customers receive more value from our solutions. 24 First Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Modernized Approach to Pricing and Multi-Year Contracts In the summer of 2022, we put in place an updated renewal pricing policy primarily for our social sector customers that directly reflects the value we provide to them, is in-line with the broader market and reflects the inflationary pressures that all businesses are facing. This program is designed to deliver sustained revenue growth beyond the initial three-year renewal cycle and will provide us with improved revenue visibility. As previously disclosed, this new approach has three main components: 1.offering 3-year contract renewal terms as our standard, which the vast majority of customers are adopting; 2.embedded annual price increases within the 3-year renewal term, which we have not had previously and are beginning to take effect; and 3.a larger first year price increase to bring our pricing in-line with the broader market. The first two components, as well as a portion of the third, will continue on beyond the initial renewal cycle, creating what we believe will be a sustainable source of revenue growth. Approximately one half of our 2024 total company revenue growth is expected to be impacted by this modernized contract and pricing initiative, and by the end of 2024, we anticipate we will renew approximately two-thirds of that base into the new model. During the first and second quarters of 2024, we expect a larger contribution to our total revenue growth to come from this initiative. Financial Summary Total revenue ($M) Income (Loss) from operations ($M) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Total revenue increased by $17.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024, when compared to the same period in 2023, driven largely by the following: + Growth in recurring revenue primarily related to: an increase in contractual recurring revenue of $13.3 million related to the impact of our modernized contract initiative and pricing within the Social Sector as well as the performance of our cloud solutions; partially offset by a decrease in revenue from EVERFI as discussed below an increase in transactional recurring revenue of $5.5 million primarily due to positive results related to pricing initiatives we implemented at the beginning of 2023 and, to a lesser extent, increases in volume for our Blackbaud Tuition Management and JustGiving solutions - Decrease in one-time service and other revenue primarily related to: decrease in one-time consulting revenue due primarily due to less revenue from implementation and customization services, in line with our multi-year strategic shift from a license-based and one-time services business model to a cloud subscription business model. Our cloud subscription offerings generally require less implementation and customization services First Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q 25 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) As previously disclosed and discussed above, we have a number of multi-year pricing initiatives underway, some to bring our pricing in line with the market while others are model changes that are expected to drive greater revenue for both us and our customers. We expect that the decline in our non-strategic one-time services and other revenue will slow in 2024 compared to the previous two years. Our Social Sector revenue (which represents approximately 88% of our total revenue) increased $19.5 million, or 8.7%, during the three months ended March 31, 2024, when compared to the same period in 2023, driven primarily by the increases in contractual recurring revenue and transactional recurring revenue discussed above. Our Corporate Sector revenue (which represents approximately 12% of our total revenue) decreased $2.1 million, or 5.6%, during the three months ended March 31, 2024, when compared to the same period in 2023, driven primarily by EVERFI. EVERFI has faced macroeconomic challenges in the form of tightening corporate CSR budgets, especially in the financial services market where EVERFI has a significant position. While we expect our Corporate Sector revenue to decline for the full year 2024, we are working on plans to ensure it contributes to shareholder value. Income from operations increased by $20.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024, when compared to the same period in 2023, driven largely by the following: + Increase in total revenue, as described above + Decrease in Security Incident-related expenses of $7.5 million. See "Security Incident update" below. + Decrease in employee severance costs of $4.3 million primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and the first quarter of 2023 + Decrease in commission expense of $3.4 million due to fewer sales headcount and a prospective increase in the period of benefit over which we amortized costs of obtaining contracts with customers from 5 to 6 years beginning in the year ending December 31, 2024 + Decrease in corporate costs of $2.2 million primarily related to the release of certain accrued tax liabilities due to favorable sales tax rulings and a decrease in bad debt expense - Increase in stock-based compensation expense of $3.6 million primarily due to overall Company performance against targets for certain performance-based equity awards - Increase in advertising costs of $2.0 million primarily due to timing differences compared to 2023 - Decrease of $2.0 million due to an increase in amortization of capitalized software and content development costs and a decrease in software and content development costs that were required to be capitalized under the internal-use software guidance - Increase in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.7 million due to our acquisition of EVERFI - Increase in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $1.6 million primarily related to the disposition of EVERFI Limited; see Note 3 of our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information - Increase in transaction-based costs of $1.4 million related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments and, to a lesser extent, increases in vendor rates - Increase in hosting and data center costs of $1.3 million as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security; currently, we expect our cloud infrastructure migration efforts and increased level of cybersecurity investments to continue for the foreseeable future We are continuing to make critical investments in the business in areas such as innovation, cybersecurity, and our continued shift of cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers. Our profitability during the first quarter of 2024 reflects some of these incremental investments. We continuously seek opportunities to optimize our portfolio of solutions to focus time and resources on innovation that will have the greatest impact for our customers and the markets we serve, and drive the highest return on investment. To that end, we will continue to simplify and rationalize our portfolio through product sunsets and divestitures of non-core businesses and technologies. 26 First Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Gross dollar retention Our recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception. A key factor to our overall success is the renewal and expansion of our existing subscription agreements with our customers. Management uses gross dollar retention in analyzing our success at delighting our customers with innovative and cloud solutions. Gross dollar retention is defined as contracted annual recurring revenue ("CARR") divided by beginning CARR with a measurement period of twelve months. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2024, our gross dollar retention was approximately 89%. This gross dollar retention rate was slightly lower than our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2023, primarily due to EVERFI. Excluding EVERFI, our gross dollar retention during the twelve months ended March 31, 2024 was slightly higher than our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2023. We are continually investing in innovation, which we believe will increase gross dollar retention over the long-term. Balance sheet and cash flow At March 31, 2024, our cash and cash equivalents were $26.4 million. Under the 2020 Credit Facility, the carrying amount of our debt was $981.7 million and our net leverage ratio was 2.72 to 1.00. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we generated $64.6 million in cash from operations, had a net increase in borrowings of $260.5 million, returned $262.6 million to stockholders by way of share repurchases and had aggregate cash outlays of $13.3 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software and content development costs. Security Incident update As discussed in Note 9 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report, total costs related to the Security Incident exceeded the limit of our insurance coverage in the first quarter of 2022. Accordingly, the Security Incident has negatively impacted, and we expect it to continue for the foreseeable future to negatively impact, our GAAP profitability and GAAP cash flow (see discussion regarding non-GAAP free cash flow and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow on page 37). For the three months ended March 31, 2024, we incurred net pre-tax expenses of $10.3 million related to the Security Incident, which included $3.3 million for ongoing legal fees and additional accruals for loss contingencies of $7.0 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we had cash outlays of $2.0 million related to the Security Incident for ongoing legal fees. In line with our policy, legal fees are expensed as incurred. For full year 2024, we currently expect pre-tax expenses of approximately $5.0 million to $10.0 million and cash outlays of approximately $8.0 million to $13.0 million for ongoing legal fees related to the Security Incident. Not included in these ranges are our previous settlements or current accruals for loss contingencies related to the matters discussed below. As of March 31, 2024, we have recorded approximately $8.5 million in aggregate liabilities for loss contingencies based primarily on recent negotiations with certain customers and governmental agencies related to the Security Incident that we believed we could reasonably estimate in accordance with our loss contingency procedures described above and as more fully described in Note 9. It is reasonably possible that our estimated actual losses may change in the near term for those matters and be materially in excess of the amounts accrued, but we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible additional loss. There are other Security Incident-related matters, including customer claims, customer constituent class actions and governmental investigations, for which we have not recorded a liability for a loss contingency as of March 31, 2024 because we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss. Each of these matters could, separately or in the aggregate, result in an adverse judgment, settlement, fine, penalty or other resolution, the amount, scope and timing of First Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) which we are currently unable to predict, but could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Termination of stockholder rights agreement On March 18, 2024, the Company and Broadridge Corporate Issuer Solutions, LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company, entered into the Third Amendment to Stockholder Rights Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2024 (as amended, the Rights Agreement). The third amendment terminated the Rights Agreement by accelerating the expiration time of the Companys preferred share purchase rights (each, a Right and, collectively, the Rights) to 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on March 18, 2024. At the time of the termination of the Rights Agreement, all of the Rights, which were previously distributed to holders of the Companys issued and outstanding common stock, par value $0.001, pursuant to the Rights Agreement, expired. April 2024 credit agreement refinancing On April 30, 2024, we entered into the Amendment, which amended the Existing Credit Agreement to, among other things, (a) refinance the credit facilities under the Existing Credit Agreement to provide for (i) a $700.0 million revolving credit facility with a $50.0 million letter of credit subfacility, a $50.0 million swingline subfacility and a $150.0 million sublimit available for multicurrency borrowings (the 2024 Revolving Facility) and (ii) a $800.0 million term loan facility (the 2024 Term Facility and together with the 2024 Revolving Facility, the 2024 Credit Facilities), (b) extend the maturity date to April 30, 2029, (c) modify the definition of Applicable Margin (as defined below) and (iv) modify certain negative and financial covenants to provide additional operational flexibility. See Part II, Item 5. Other Information for a summary of the terms of the 2024 Credit Agreement. Results of Operations Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 Revenue and Cost of Revenue Recurring Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Recurring revenue includes two components: contractual recurring and transactional recurring. Contractual recurring revenue is primarily comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud solutions, Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content, online training programs and subscription-based analytic services. Contractual recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions. Transactional recurring revenue is comprised of transaction fees associated with the use of our solutions, including donation processing, tuition management, consumer giving and event-based usage. 28 First Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Cost of recurring revenue is primarily comprised of compensation costs for customer support and production IT personnel, hosting and data center costs, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty and data expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations, amortization of software development costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services including remittances of amounts due to third-parties and other costs incurred in providing support and recurring services to our customers. Our customers continue to prefer cloud subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth. Recurring revenue increased by $18.8 million, or 7.4%, during the three months ended March 31, 2024, when compared to the same period in 2023, driven primarily by the following: + Increase in contractual recurring revenue of $13.3 million related to the impact of our modernized contract initiative and pricing within the Social Sector as well as the performance of our cloud solutions; partially offset by a decrease in revenue from EVERFI as discussed above + Increase in transactional recurring revenue of $5.5 million primarily due to positive results related to pricing initiatives we implemented at the beginning of 2023 and, to a lesser extent, increases in volume for our Blackbaud Tuition Management and JustGiving solutions. Cost of recurring revenue increased by $4.7 million, or 4.1%, during the three months ended March 31, 2024, when compared to the same period in 2023, driven primarily by the following: + Increase in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.6 million primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI in December 2021 + Increase in transaction-based costs of $1.5 million related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments and, to a lesser extent, increases in vendor rates + Increase in hosting and data center costs of $1.3 million as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security; currently, we expect our cloud infrastructure migration efforts and increased level of cybersecurity investments to continue for the foreseeable future Recurring gross margin increased by 140 basis points for the three months ended March 31, 2024, when compared to the same period in 2023, primarily due to the increases in recurring revenue outpacing the increases in cost of recurring revenue. One-time services and other Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, and fees for retained and managed services contracts that we do not expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts. First Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Cost of one-time services and other is primarily comprised of compensation costs for professional services and onsite training personnel, other costs incurred in providing onsite customer training, third-party contractor expenses, data expense incurred to perform one-time analytic services, third-party software royalties, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations. One-time services and other revenue decreased by $1.3 million, or 14.1%, during the three months ended March 31, 2024, when compared to the same period in 2023, driven primarily by the following: - Decrease in one-time consulting revenue of $1.1 million primarily due to less sales of creative services and implementation and customization services. As discussed in Note 3 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report, our sale of EVERFI Limited contributed to the decrease in creative services revenue. Also contributing to the decrease in one-time consulting revenue is an increase in utilization of third-party service delivery partners. For several years, we have been strategically shifting away from a one-time services business model towards sales of retained and managed services and also embedding services in our renewable cloud solution contracts. Retained and managed services contracts that we expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, and embedded services are recorded as recurring revenue. Cost of one-time services and other decreased by $1.6 million, or 18.5%, during the three months ended March 31, 2024, when compared to the same period in 2023, driven primarily by the following: - Decrease in compensation costs of $1.2 million primarily related to our prior period targeted workforce reductions discussed above and a continued shift in resources historically supporting one-time services and other towards recurring revenue One-time services and other gross margin increased by 480 basis points during the three months ended March 31, 2024, when compared to the same period in 2023, primarily due to the decrease in compensation costs discussed above outpacing the decrease of one-time services and other revenue. Operating Expenses Sales, marketing and customer success ($M) Research and development ($M) General and administrative ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue Sales, marketing and customer success Sales, marketing and customer success expense includes compensation costs, variable sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs, variable reseller commissions and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We see a large market opportunity in the long-term and will continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness. We have also implemented software tools to enhance our digital footprint and drive lead generation. The enhancements we are making in our go-to-market approach are expected to reduce our average customer acquisition cost per customer as well as the related payback period while increasing sales velocity. 30 First Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Sales, marketing and customer success expense decreased by $3.5 million or 6.5%, during the three months ended March 31, 2024, when compared to the same period in 2023. The decreases in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue were primarily driven by the following: - Decrease in commission expense of $3.5 million due to fewer sales headcount and a prospective increase in the period of benefit over which we amortized costs of obtaining contracts with customers from 5 to 6 years beginning in the year ending December 31, 2024 - Decrease in employee severance costs of $1.6 million primarily due to our prior period targeted workforce reductions discussed above + Increase in advertising costs of $2.0 million primarily due to timing differences compared to 2023 Research and development Research and development expense includes compensation costs for engineering and product management personnel, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new solutions or upgrading and enhancing existing solutions that do not qualify for capitalization, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We continue to make investments to delight our customers with innovative and secure cloud solutions. Research and development expenses increased by $2.2 million or 5.4%, during the three months ended March 31, 2024, when compared to the same period in 2023, primarily driven by the following: + Increase in compensation costs of $2.4 million primarily related to an increase in resources dedicated to the security-related compliance of our solutions - Decrease in employee severance costs of $1.1 million primarily due to our prior period targeted workforce reductions discussed above Not included in research and development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 were $13.7 million and $14.2 million, respectively, of qualifying costs associated with software and content development activities that are required to be capitalized under GAAP, such as those for our cloud solutions, as well as development costs associated with acquired companies. Qualifying capitalized development costs associated with our cloud solutions are subsequently amortized to cost of recurring revenue over the related assets' estimated useful life, which generally range from three to seven years. We expect that the amount of software and content development costs capitalized will be relatively consistent in the near-term as we continue making investments in innovation, quality, security and the integration of our solutions, which we believe will drive long-term revenue growth. General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, Security Incident-related expenses (including legal fees, settlements and loss contingency accruals), third-party professional fees, insurance, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses. General and administrative expense decreased by $5.1 million or 9.6%, during the three months ended March 31, 2024, when compared to the same period in 2023. The decreases in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue were primarily driven by the following: - Decrease in Security Incident-related expenses of $7.5 million. See "Security Incident update" on page 27 - Decrease in corporate costs of $2.2 million primarily related to the release of certain accrued tax liabilities due to favorable sales tax rulings and a decrease in bad debt expense - Decrease in employee severance costs of $0.8 million due to our prior period targeted workforce reductions discussed above + Increase in compensation costs of $4.7 million primarily related to an increase in stock-based compensation due to overall Company performance against targets for certain performance-based equity awards + Increase in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $1.6 million primarily related to the disposition of EVERFI Limited; see Note 3 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information First Quarter 2024 Form 10-Q 31 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Interest Expense Interest expense ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue Interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2024, was relatively in line with the same period in 2023. We currently expect interest expense for the full year 2024 to be approximately $48 million to $52 million as we had incremental borrowings to fund our ASR Transaction (as defined on page 40). We also expect interest rates to remain higher throughout 2024 than we originally anticipated. Our interest expense in connection with the variable rate portion of our outstanding debt could increase in a rising interest rate environment. See Note 8 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information regarding our derivative instruments, which we use to manage our variable interest rate risk, and