Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This quarterly report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our or our industry's actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward- looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our unaudited financial statements are stated in United States Dollars (US$) and are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this quarterly report. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this quarterly report. Unless otherwise specified in this quarterly report, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars and all references to common stock refer to shares of our common stock. As used in this quarterly report, the terms we, us, our and our company mean Asian Development Frontier Inc., unless otherwise indicated. We have no subsidiaries. Corporate Overview We were incorporated in the State of Nevada on February 2, 2005. Our original business plan was to develop fuel cell technology and produce fuel cells in China for indoor forklifts, scooters, underwater equipment (e.g. shallow underwater sightseeing submarines) that require a small size, longevity of use and silent operation. During fiscal 2008 we suspended the development of our products and business plan until we were able to raise sufficient additional financing. Since the suspension of our original business plan, our management has been analyzing various alternatives available to our company to ensure our survival and to preserve our shareholders' investment in our common shares. On July 31, 2012, we filed Articles of Merger with the Nevada Secretary of State to change the name of the company from Intervia Inc. to Blue Sky Petroleum Inc., by way of a merger with our wholly-owned subsidiary Blue Sky Petroleum Inc., which was created solely for the name change. Also on July 31, 2012, we filed a Certificate of Change with the Nevada Secretary of State to give effect to a forward split of our authorized and issued and outstanding shares of common stock on a 3 new for 1 old basis and, consequently, our authorized capital increased from 75,000,000 to 225,000,000 shares and correspondingly, our issued and outstanding shares of common stock increased from 15,740,000 to 47,220,000 shares of common stock, all with a par value of $0.001. These amendments became effective on August 7, 2012 upon approval from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). 7 Effective September 19, 2012, our stock symbol changed from ITVA to BSKY to better reflect the new name of our company. The symbol change became effective with the OTC Markets at the opening of trading on September 19, 2012. On June 10, 2015, our board of directors approved an agreement and plan of merger to merge with our wholly-owned subsidiary Asian Development Frontier Inc., a Nevada corporation, to effect a name change from Blue Sky Petroleum Inc. to Asian Development Frontier Inc. Asian Development Frontier Inc. was formed solely for the change of name. Articles of Merger to effect the merger and change of name were filed and became effective with the Nevada Secretary of State on July 9, 2015. The name change became effective with the OTC Markets at the opening of trading on July 9, 2015 under the symbol "ADFI". Our CUSIP number is 04521W101. On September 21, 2017, Unifunds Limited, a Hong Kong corporation, acquired an aggregate of 55,000,000 issued and outstanding common shares of the Company. The shares were acquired in private transactions, in equal part from each of Jin Han Alvin Lee, our former president, secretary, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer and director, and Kok Seong Lim, our former director. The purchase price, which was paid with personal funds of the purchaser, was $0.06218 per share or $3,420,000 in the aggregate. The 55,000,000 common shares constitute approximately 57.7% of our issued and outstanding voting securities as at the date of this report. Shirley Van Kerkhove has sole voting and dispositive control over securities held by UniFunds Limited. There are no arrangements or understandings among UniFunds Limited, Jin Han Alvin Lee, or Kok Seong Lim or their respective associates with respect to the election of directors or other matters pertaining to the Company. On October 17, 2017, our board of directors approved an agreement and plan of merger to merge with our wholly-owned subsidiary Unifunds Limited (a Nevada corporation, incorporated on October 19, 2017), for the sole purpose of effecting a name change from Asian Development Frontier Inc. to Unifunds Limited. Our company remained the surviving company. Completion of the merger and name change became effective on March 23, 2018 following approval of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. On March 23, 2018 we adopted the new trading symbol UIFD, and new CUSIP number 90775A101 The address of our principal executive office is 65/10-12 Floor 1, Chamnan Phenjati Business Center Building. Rama IX Rd, Huai Khwang, Bangkok, Thailand. Our telephone number is 852-2626 9975. Our Current Business During our last two fiscal years, we have been a company with no operations. On July 15, 2010, we entered into an option agreement to purchase a 100% undivided right, title and interest in the Proteus property located near Cobalt, Ontario, an area known historically for the mining of silver ore. The Proteus Property consists of three mineral claims comprised of nine units covering approximately 360 acres located in the Larder Lake Mining Division in Ontario, Canada. In order to acquire the Proteus Property pursuant to the agreement, our company was to make the cash payments and incur amounts on exploration and development. We have been unsuccessful in raising additional capital for this exploration project and therefore do not have sufficient funds to make the required option payments. Consequently, effective August 13, 2012, we entered into an assignment agreement among Timber Wolf Gold Inc., a Nevada corporation and Gino Chitaroni, wherein we have assigned all of our rights, title and interest in and to the option agreement for the Proteus Property to Timber Wolf, with no further obligations to our company. We continue to look for properties and opportunities. However, at this time we have not yet been successful in finding a transaction that has warranted pursuing. Research and Development We do not currently have a formal research and development effort. We did not spend any funds on research and development during the last two fiscal years. Purchase of Significant Equipment We do not intend to purchase any significant equipment over the twelve months ending April 30, 2019. 8 Competition Currently our company has no operations. We are engaged in the evaluation of potential opportunities to develop our business through merger, acquisition or joint venture, with a view to increasing shareholder value. In that regard we may compete with other private or public companies for business opportunities and financing. Many of the companies with whom we may compete have greater financial and technical resources than those available to us. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to spend greater amounts on the identification, evaluation, acquisitions and development of assets or opportunities of merit. In addition, they may be able to afford management and other expertise greater than our own. This competition could adversely impact on our ability to re-establish operation, and to achieve the financing necessary for us to develop any assets or interests we may acquire. Compliance with Government Regulation We are committed to complying with and are, to our knowledge, in compliance with, all governmental and environmental regulations applicable to our company and any future properties. Permits from a variety of regulatory authorities are required for many aspects of mine operation and reclamation. We cannot predict the extent to which these requirements will affect our company or any future properties if we identify the existence of minerals in commercially exploitable quantities. In addition, future legislation and regulation could cause additional expense, capital expenditure, restrictions and delays in the exploration of any future properties. Subsidiaries We do not have any subsidiaries. Employees Currently, we do not have any employees. Additionally, we have not entered into any consulting or employment agreements with our president, chief executive officer, treasurer, secretary or chief financial officer. Our directors, executive officers and certain contracted individuals play an important role in the running of our company. We do not expect any material changes in the number of employees over the next 12 month period. We do and will continue to outsource contract employment as needed. We engage contractors from time to time to consult with us on specific corporate affairs or to perform specific tasks in connection with our programs. Plan of Operation You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited financial statements and the notes to those unaudited financial statements included elsewhere in this filing prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Anticipated Cash Requirements Based on our net loss of $11,210 incurred during the three month period ended April 30, 2018, our monthly usage rate is approximately $3,800. We estimate our operating expenses and working capital requirements for the twelve month period beginning May 1, 2018 to be as follows: Estimated Expenses For the Twelve Month Period ending April 30, 2019 Professional fees $ 60,000 General and administrative $ 150,000 Total $ 210,000 We had $Nil in cash as of April 30, 2018, and a working capital deficit of $371,896. Until we complete another transaction, acquisition or business combination, our cash requirements will be in regards to maintaining our corporate existence, and ensuring compliance with our Securities and Exchange Commission continuous disclosure obligations, including our financial reporting requirements. In addition, we will require additional capital in order to investigate and conclude any future transaction, acquisition or business combination. In order to improve our liquidity, we plan to pursue additional equity financing from private investors or possibly a registered public offering. We do not currently have any definitive arrangements in place for the completion of any further private placement financings and there is no assurance that we will be successful in completing any further private placement financings. If we are unable to achieve the necessary additional financing, then we plan to reduce the amounts that we spend on our business activities and administrative expenses in order to be within the amount of capital resources that are available to us. 9 Results of Operations Three months ended April 30, 2018 compared to three months ended April 30,, 2017. Three months Three months ended ended April 30, April 30, 2018 2018 Revenue $ Nil $ Nil Operating Expenses $ 11,210 $ 10,195 Net Loss $ (11,210 ) $ (10,195 ) 10 Expenses Our operating expenses for the three month periods ended April 30, 2018 and April 30, 2017 are outlined in the table below: Three months Three months ended ended April 30, April 30, 2018 2017 Professional fees $ 4,300 $ 1,864 General and administrative $ 6,910 $ 8,331 Operating expenses for the three months ended April 30, 2018 increased by 10% as compared to the comparative period for April 30, 2017 primarily as a result of an increase in professional fees. 11 Revenue We have not had any revenues from operations since inception (February 2, 2005). We do not anticipate that we will earn any revenues from operations unless and until we acquire and operate a profitable business. This might never happen and we can offer no assurance that even if we acquire a business that we will ever be profitable. Liquidity and Capital Resources Working Capital As at As at Percentage April 30, January 31, Increase/ 2018 2018 (Decrease) Current Assets $ 4,166 $ 6,666 37.50% Current Liabilities $ 376,062 $ 367,352 2.37% Working Capital (deficiency) $ (371,896 ) $ (360,686 ) 3.11% Cash Flows Three months Three months Ended April, Ended April 30, 2018 2017 Net cash used in operating activities $ Nil $ Nil Net cash provided by financing activities $ Nil $ Nil Net cash used in investing activities $ Nil $ Nil Net increase (decrease) in cash $ Nil $ Nil Operating Activities We did not use any cash for operating activities for the three months ended April 30, 2018 or for the three months ended April 30, 2017. Financing Activities We did not receive any cash from financing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2018 or for the three months ended April 30, 2017. We have suffered recurring losses from operations. The continuation of our company is dependent upon our company attaining and maintaining profitable operations and raising additional capital as needed. Future Financings We will require additional funds to implement our growth strategy in our new business. These funds may be raised through equity financing, debt financing, or other sources, which may result in further dilution in the equity ownership of our shares. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to us when needed or, if available, that it can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. If we are not able to obtain the additional financing on a timely basis should it be required, or generate significant material revenues from operations, we will not be able to meet our other obligations as they become due and we will be forced to scale down or perhaps even cease our operations. 12 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to stockholders. Critical Accounting Policies The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies. We believe that understanding the basis and nature of the estimates and assumptions involved with the following aspects of our financial statements is critical to an understanding of our financial statements. The accompanying unaudited interim financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. They do not include all information and footnotes required by United States generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. However, except as disclosed herein, there have been no material changes in the information disclosed in the notes to the financial statements for the year ended January 31, 2017 included in our companys Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The unaudited interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with those financial statements included in the Form 10-K. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation, consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments, have been made. Operating results for the three, months ended April 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full year.