ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of the results of financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements, and the notes to those consolidated financial statements that are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our discussion includes forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors. We use words such as anticipate, estimate, plan, project, continuing, ongoing, expect, believe, intend, may, will, should, could, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Overview The Company is in the business of developing and marketing a real time analytical web-based software as a service platform (the Blackbox System) that serves as a tool for day traders and swing traders on various securities exchanges and markets. Our proprietary Blackbox System technology is an algorithm driven system that works in real time, measuring market trends and data while utilizing a multitude of specific criteria, both live and historical. Our Blackbox System platform employs predictive technology enhanced by artificial intelligence to find volatility and unusual market activity that can result in the rapid change in a stocks price. The Blackbox System was initially designed to monitor and analyze over 13,000 stocks on the OTC Markets Group, Inc. (OTC), New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the NYSE American (formerly the American Stock Exchange), and NASDAQ markets simultaneously as our servers receive live data feeds from such markets. We have also customized our Blackbox System to analyze data from the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKEX), Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) for license and use primarily in Asia. 8 Table of Contents We consider the Blackbox System technology to be among the most user-friendly of its kind. The Company launched its Blackbox System web application for domestic use and made it available to subscribers in September 2016. Subscriptions for the use of the Blackbox System web application are sold on a monthly and/or annual subscription basis to individual consumers through our website at http://www.blackboxstocks.com. Our principal office is located at 5430 LBJ Freeway, Suite 1485, Dallas, Texas 75240 and our telephone number is (972) 726-9203. Our Common Stock is quoted on the OTC Pink under the symbol BLBX. Our corporate website is located at http://www.blackboxstocks.com. Basis of Presentation of Financial Information The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP), which contemplate continuation of the Company as a going concern, which is dependent upon the Company's ability to obtain sufficient financing or establish itself as a profitable business. At December 31, 2019, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $6,829,907 and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company incurred net losses of $2,983,437 and $1,151,882, respectively. Managements plans with respect to operations include the sustained and aggressive marketing of subscriptions for the Blackbox System and raising additional capital through sales of equity or debt securities as may be necessary to pursue its business plans and sustain operations until such time as the Company can achieve profitability. Management believes that aggressive marketing combined with additional financing as necessary will result in improved operations and cash flow in 2020 and beyond. However, there can be no assurance that management will be successful in obtaining additional funding or in attaining profitable operations. The financial statements do not include adjustments relating to the recoverability and realization of assets and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue in operation. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements During the year ended December 31, 2019 and through April 15, 2020, there were several new accounting pronouncements issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Each of these pronouncements, as applicable, has been or will be adopted by the Company. Management does not believe the adoption of any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. All other new accounting pronouncements issued but not yet effective or adopted have been deemed not to be relevant to us, hence are not expected to have any impact once adopted. 9 Table of Contents Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The Companys financial statement preparation requires that management make estimates and assumptions which affect the reporting of assets and liabilities and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in order to report these financial statements in conformity with GAAP. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Cash Cash includes all highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and have original maturities at the date of purchase of three months or less. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement , defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and requires certain disclosures about fair value measurements. In general, fair values of financial instruments are based upon quoted market prices, where available. If such quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that primarily use, as inputs, observable market-based parameters. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value. These adjustments may include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality and the customers creditworthiness, among other things, as well as unobservable parameters. Any such valuation adjustments are applied consistently over time. Derivative Financial Instruments FASB ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement requires bifurcation of certain embedded derivative instruments, and measurement at their fair value for accounting purposes. A holder redemption feature embedded in the Companys notes payable requires bifurcation from its host instrument and is accounted for as a freestanding derivative. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, there were several new accounting pronouncements issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Each of these pronouncements, as applicable, has been or will be adopted by the Company. Management does not believe the adoption of any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases . This is a comprehensive new leases standard that amends various aspects of existing guidance for leases and requires additional disclosures about leasing arrangements. It requires all leases that have a term in excess of 12 months be recognized on the balance sheet with the liability for lease payments and the corresponding right-of-use asset value based on the present value of future aggregate payments. Recognition of the costs of these leases on the income statement will be dependent upon their classification as either an operating or a financing lease. Costs of an operating lease will continue to be recognized as a single operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Costs for a financing lease will be disaggregated and recognized as both an operating expense (for the amortization of the right-of-use asset) and interest expense (for interest on the lease liability). This standard became effective beginning January 1, 2019 and was adopted on our financial statements. The Company recorded the right-of-use asset for the lease in the amount of $160,073 and the related lease liability. The current liability for the lease is $46,124 and non-current of $66,715 as of December 31, 2019. Property and Equipment The Company is engaged in the development of its proprietary Blackbox System technology, an algorithm driven system, through a combination of in-house system analysts and outside firms. The Companys Blackbox System software for use in China was in development and costs expensed until the software reached technological feasibility in April 2017 and capitalized until May 15, 2017 when the Blackbox System for use in China was marketable. 10 Table of Contents The Companys property and equipment is being depreciated on the straight-line basis over an estimated useful life of three years. Income Taxes The Company will recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the differences are expected to be recovered. The Company provides a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for which it does not consider realization of such assets to be more likely than not. Management evaluates the probability of the realization of its deferred income tax assets. Management determined that because the Company has not yet generated taxable income, it is unlikely that a tax benefit will be realized from these operating loss carry forwards. Accordingly, the deferred income tax asset is offset by a full valuation allowance. In accordance with ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes , the Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be capable of withstanding examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. These standards prescribe a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Earnings or ( Loss) Per Share Basic earnings per share (or loss per share), is computed by dividing the earnings (loss) for the period by the weighted average number of common stock shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution of securities by including other potentially issuable shares of common stock, including shares issuable upon conversion of convertible securities or exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants, in the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Therefore, because including shares issuable upon conversion of convertible securities and/or exercise of outstanding options and warrants would have an anti-dilutive effect on the loss per share, only the basic earnings (loss) per share is reported in the accompanying financial statements. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the potential dilution would be 5,311,667 and 5,000,000 shares of common stock, respectively, in the event the issued and outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock or other potentially dilutive securities be exercised. Share-Based Payment Under ASC Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation , all share based payments to employees, including share option grants, are to be recognized in the statement of operations based on their fair values. No share-based payments were issued for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Revenue Recognition On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) and adoption of the new standard had no impact on the Companys statements of operations or balance sheets. Revenue is recognized from the sale of subscriptions for the use of the Blackbox System web application, on a monthly or annual basis. Revenue generally is recognized net of allowances for returns and any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. The Company launched its Blackbox System web application and began generating subscription sales revenues during the quarter ended September 30, 2016. Revenue related to annual subscriptions is recognized each month with unearned subscriptions reflected as a current liability. 11 Table of Contents Other Liabilities The Company is planning the development of a future product, a complimentary platform that will share similar IP protocol with the current Blackbox System on a subscription basis. The future product has not yet launched. The Company has received advance payments from a new subscriber group in anticipation of the development of this future product. These amounts are deferred until such time as the platform is launched and the services earned. As of December 31, 2019, the Company has received $180,000 from this future subscriber group. Software Development Costs Blackboxstocks is engaged in the development of its proprietary Blackbox System technology, a proprietary algorithm driven system, through a combination of in-house system analysts and outside contractors. Under the guidelines of ASC Topic 985, Software, the cost of the Companys Blackbox System was expensed during development and the Blackbox System software for use in the United States, reached technical feasibility in August 2016, became marketable and was made available to subscribers beginning September 1, 2016. The Blackbox System for use in China achieved technological feasibility and became marketable and available to subscribers during the quarter ended June 30, 2017. Subsequent to that time, in accordance with ASC Topic 985 these costs were expensed. Costs incurred during this period were capitalized and amortized. Domain Name The Company acquired a domain name for its exclusive use in anticipation of its rollout within the next three years. The cost was capitalized and due to the uncertainty of our ability to successfully market this name, we elected to amortize the cost over a period of three years. Prepaid Expenses Prepaid expenses are current assets created when the Company makes payments or incurs an obligation for expenses identified for a future period. These amounts are charged to expense as the services are provided. Marketing Costs The Company incurs significant marketing expenses related to the development and expansion of its subscription base to potential users. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company reported $261,470 and $173,885 for marketing costs, respectively. Contingencies Certain conditions may exist as of the date the financial statements are issued, which may result in a loss to the Company but which will only be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur. The Companys management and legal counsel assess such contingent liabilities, and such assessment inherently involves judgment. In assessing loss contingencies related to legal proceedings that are pending against the Company or unasserted claims that may result in such proceedings, the Companys legal counsel evaluates the perceived merits of any legal proceedings or unasserted claims as well as the perceived merits of the amount of relief sought or expected to be sought. 12 Table of Contents If the assessment of a contingency indicates it is probable that a material loss has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be estimated, then the estimated liability would be accrued in the Companys financial statements. If the assessment indicates that a potential material loss contingency is not probable but is reasonably possible, or is probable but cannot be estimated, then the nature of the contingent liability, together with an estimate of the range of possible loss if determinable and material would be disclosed. Loss contingencies considered to be remote by management are generally not disclosed unless they involve guarantees, in which case the guarantee would be disclosed. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company launched its Blackbox System web application and made it available to subscribers in September 2016 and we have not yet attained a level of subscription sales revenue that would allow us to meet our current overhead. We do not contemplate attaining profitable operations prior to the end of 2020, nor is there any assurance that such an operating level can ever be achieved. At December 31, 2019, the Company had a cash balance of $21,172 and a working capital deficit of $3,515,483 as compared to a cash balance of $28,001 and a working capital deficit of $1,324,635 at December 31, 2018. Such cash amount is not sufficient to fund our plans of operation. As such, we will need to raise additional funds to carry out our plans of operation and fund our ongoing operational expenses including the marketing of our Blackbox System platform and services. We expect that costs and expenses necessary to implement our planned marketing operations over the next 12 months will be between $1 Million to $2 Million. Additional funding is expected to be generated through equity financing from the sale of our Common Stock and/or debt. If we are successful in completing equity financing, existing stockholders will experience dilution of their interest in our Company. We do not have any financing arranged and we cannot provide investors with any assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient funding from the sale of our Common Stock or debt to fund our plans of operation and ongoing operational expenses. In the absence of such financing, our business will likely fail. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and the accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability or classification of asset carrying amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Results of Operations Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 201 9 and 201 8 For the years ending December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Companys revenue totaled $1,062,573 and $692,803, respectively, for which its respective costs of revenues totaled $736,612 and $645,318. Revenues increased as a result of an expanded subscription base for monthly revenues. The Companys revenue from subscriptions grew from $687,653 in the year ended December 31, 2018 to $1,037,778 in the year ended December 31, 2019, an increase of $350,125. Costs of operations increased as a result of the Companys additional subscriber expenses. The costs of operations includes costs to provide the web application to subscribers, the majority of which is data feed expense for exchange information of approximately $343,030 and customer retention and referral expense of $334,350. For the year ending December 31, 2019, the Company had operating expenses totaling $1,330,994 compared to $1,154,226 for the same period in 2018, an increase of $176,768. This change is primarily a result of an increase in general and administrative expenses of approximately $248,578 which reflects an increase of $87,585 in marketing expense; $69,911 in legal and professional expense; $90,991 in investment fundraising expense; $12,251 in salary and administrative expense; $37,710 of travel and related expense netted with a decrease in outside consulting expenses of $49,870. In addition, software development costs decreased approximately $67,594 due to stabilization of the development of the software application. The Company also recorded depreciation expense of $18,142 for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $22,514 for the year ended December 31, 2018. 13 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.