ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis presents financial information denominated in millions of dollars which can lead to differences from rounding when compared to similar information contained in the unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes which are primarily denominated in thousands of dollars. Executive Summary We are the worlds leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good communitynonprofits, higher education institutions, K12 schools, healthcare organizations, faith communities, arts and cultural organizations, foundations, companies and individual change agentswe connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through cloud software, services, expertise and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility (CSR) and environmental, social and governance (ESG), school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics. Serving the industry for more than four decades, we are a remote-first company headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina, with operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom. Our revenue is primarily generated from the following sources: (i) charging for the use of our software solutions in cloud and hosted environments; (ii) providing payment and transactional services; (iii) providing software maintenance and support services; (iv) providing Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content; and (v) providing professional services, including implementation, consulting, training, analytic and other services. COVID-19 Impact The economic impact of COVID-19 on the social good industry remains somewhat uncertain, although we are seeing signs of recovery in the industry. Our end markets continue to display resilience in the post-pandemic recovery with a digital-first mindset. In February 2022, the Blackbaud Institute released its annual Charitable Giving Report, which reported that overall giving in 2021 grew 9% with the percent of giving done online up significantly from pre-pandemic levels and holding steady in the low-teens. Nearly 30% of those online donations are being made on a mobile device, which we see as a long-term positive as we equip organizations to process mobile donations and optimize mobile user interfaces. If our existing and prospective customers remain cautious in their purchase decisions, our operating environment may continue to be challenging. Notwithstanding these conditions, we remain focused on continuing to execute our four-point strategy and strengthening our leadership position. Four-Point Strategy 1 Expand Total Addressable Market 2 Lead with World Class Teams and Operations 3 Delight Customers with Innovative Cloud Solutions 4 Focus on Employees, Culture and ESG Initiatives 1. Expand Total Addressable Market ("TAM") In December 2021, we doubled our TAM when we acquired EVERFI, an industry leader in global social impact technology. Adding EVERFI advances our position as a leader in the rapidly evolving ESG and CSR spaces and offers cross-selling and upselling opportunities through complementary product offerings with YourCause solutions. Our TAM now stands at over $20 billion, and we remain active in the evaluation of opportunities to further expand our addressable market through acquisitions and internal product development. 26 Third Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) 2. Lead with World Class Teams and Operations This strategy expands upon our previous strategies to drive sales effectiveness and improve operating efficiency to include improving overall company performance as measured by the Rule of 40 (see discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below). Recently, we announced a series of strategic organizational updates to streamline our business operations and become even more customer centric. We created three new roles: Chief Operating Officer, Chief Commercial Officer and Executive Vice President of Corporations. We believe these new roles will: ensure consistency in our approach to the customer experience; further streamline and simplify our go-to-market efforts to maximize our outcomes as a global company; and further align our YourCause and EVERFI offerings and continue our investment in being the partner of choice for corporations focused on social responsibility and impact. Additionally, we recently took steps to better align our workforce with our strategic priorities, including further elimination of open positions as well as the difficult decision to reduce our workforce (see additional discussion regarding our workforce reduction below). We also appointed a new member to our board of directors, who brings over 20 years of experience in technology and cybersecurity to our board. 3. Delight Customers with Innovative Cloud Solutions During our recent annual user conference, bbcon, we shared how our purpose-built solutions bring together the capabilities essential to our customers in managing their data, making their teams more productive, motivating their audiences to act, and ultimately driving outcomes. During the third quarter, we also acquired Kilter, an intuitive, gamified, activity-based engagement app. We will initially pair Kilter with our Blackbaud TeamRaiser solution to serve nonprofits by expanding the ways they can engage with their supporters to prepare for their existing fundraising walks, runs and rides, and to create new types of engagement opportunities that are not tied to a specific date or place. Kilter will also provide a unique solution with YourCause CSRConnect platform for companies as employers take a more active role in supporting their employees health and wellness pursuits across their remote and distributed workforces. 4. Focus on Employees, Culture and ESG Initiatives We recently announced that we achieved carbon neutrality for 2021. This is a goal we have been striving towards and our shift to a remote-first workforce enabled us to accelerate our timeline. Since 2019, Blackbaud has reduced its global real estate footprint by 50%, energy emissions to run office space by 63% and employee commute emissions by 75%. With a multi-pronged climate strategy, Blackbaud is focused on reducing emissions, using energy efficiently and investing in environmental projects for a more sustainable future. We shared more about our ESG strategy on our Corporate Social Responsibility website during the second quarter. Our mission driven culture has been in our DNA since inception and is very attractive in a competitive labor market. We continue to foster a diverse and inclusive environment focused on employee engagement and connectedness with our remote-first workforce strategy. We have a significant role to play in driving advances in the social good space, and we are proud of the strong corporate culture we have built and continue to cultivate in today's environment. Third Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Financial Summary Total revenue ($M) Income from operations ($M) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Total revenue increased by $30.1 million and $103.5 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, driven largely by the following: + Growth in recurring revenue primarily related to: increases in contractual recurring revenue of $27.7 million and $81.6 million, respectively, related to the performance of our cloud solutions, of which $23.7 million and $71.2 million, respectively, was attributable to EVERFI; partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue as customers migrate to our cloud solutions and decreases related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $1.3 million and $2.3 million, respectively; and increases in transactional recurring revenue of $3.2 million and $22.7 million, respectively, primarily due to an increase in online charitable giving, an increase in enrollment for our Blackbaud Tuition Management solution resulting in a higher transactional volumes and, to a lesser extent, increased transactional volume as our customer's constituents have begun to return to in-person events. These increases in transactional recurring revenue were partially offset by decreases related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $3.1 million and $5.5 million, respectively. - Decreases in one-time service and other revenue primarily related to: decreases in one-time analytics revenue as analytics are generally integrated in our cloud solutions; partially offset by increases in one-time consulting revenue due primarily to our acquisition of EVERFI, largely offset by a decrease in implementation and customization services, in line with our multi-year strategic shift from a license-based and one-time services business model to a cloud subscription business model. Our cloud subscription offerings generally require less implementation and customization services. 28 Third Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) We currently expect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will have a significant negative impact on our total revenue for the full year 2022. While our year-to-date bookings for EVERFI continue to be lighter than expected, we have taken action to bolster management and fill account executive vacancies, which are now fully staffed and ramping to drive future bookings. Additionally, we currently expect one-time services and other revenue to modestly decrease during 2022 when compared to 2021, inclusive of incremental one-time revenue expected from EVERFI. We have a number of multi-year pricing initiatives underway, some to bring our pricing in line with the market while others are model changes that are expected to drive greater revenue for both us and our customers. For additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results, see Foreign Currency Exchange Rates below on page 47 . Income from operations decreased by $18.9 million and $44.5 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, driven largely by the following: - Increases in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $20.7 million and $61.5 million, respectively, primarily due to increased employee headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI - Increases in third-party contractor costs of $6.8 million and $21.6 million, respectively, and hosting costs of $1.0 million and $5.5 million, respectively, primarily attributable to our acquisition of EVERFI and, to a lesser extent, our continued migration of our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and investments in cybersecurity - Increases in Security Incident-related expenses, net of insurance, of $12.8 million and $27.9 million, respectively. See "Security Incident update" below. - Increases in transaction-based costs of $2.9 million and $12.2 million, respectively, related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments - Increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $3.4 million and $10.8 million, respectively, due to our acquisition of EVERFI - Increases in infrastructure costs of $1.6 million and $5.8 million, respectively, primarily related to our acquisition of EVERFI and investments in security tools - Increases in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $2.4 million and $5.6 million, respectively, primarily related to a $2.0 million noncash impairment of certain insignificant intangible assets held for sale - Increases in marketing costs of $1.1 million and $5.0 million, respectively, primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI - Increases in travel costs of $1.1 million and $3.7 million, respectively, due to our easing of restrictions on non-essential employee travel, which went into effect during March 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic - A $2.3 million noncash impairment charge during the nine months ended September 30, 2022, against previously capitalized software development costs that reduced the carrying value of those assets to zero. The impairment charge resulted primarily from our decision to end customer support for certain solutions + Increases in total revenue, as described above + Decreases in stock-based compensation expense of $1.0 million and $5.8 million, respectively, attributable to: A decrease in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during 2022 compared to 2021; and As a one-time response to COVID-19, replacement of our 2020 base salary merit increases with one-year time-based equity awards, which vested and were recognized as expense between May 1, 2020 and May 1, 2021. We are continuing to make critical investments in the business in areas such as digital marketing, innovation, cybersecurity, customer success and our continued shift of cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers. Our profitability through the third quarter reflects the addition of EVERFI and some of these incremental investments. We have taken steps to better align our workforce with our strategic priorities to drive efficiencies and minimize any potential impacts from the current uncertain macroeconomic environment. This recently included further elimination of open positions as well as the decision to reduce our workforce. As a result of the workforce targeted reduction, we expect to incur between $6 million and $8 million in pre-tax employee severance costs primarily during the fourth quarter of 2022. We expect this workforce reduction and other cost actions will reduce our planned future pre-tax cost run rate by approximately $40 million Third Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) to $50 million beginning in 2023, partially offset by continued investments in cybersecurity and innovation. We see further opportunity in 2023 and beyond to scale our infrastructure costs, reduce overhead and execute pricing initiatives. We continuously seek opportunities to optimize our portfolio of solutions to focus time and resources on innovation that will have the greatest impact for our customers and the markets we serve, and drive the highest return on investment. To that end, we will continue to simplify and rationalize our portfolio through product sunsets and divestitures of non-core businesses and technologies. Customer retention Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud subscription delivery model. In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs. Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and recurring service customer contracts provides a better representation of our customers' overall behavior. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2022, approximately 91% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained. This customer retention rate decreased from our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2021 and reflects our continuing efforts to rationalize our portfolio of solutions and migrate customers from legacy solutions towards our next generation solutions. Balance sheet and cash flow At September 30, 2022, our cash and cash equivalents were $31.4 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2020 Credit Facility was $795.5 million. Our net leverage ratio was 3.10 to 1.00. During the nine months ended September 30, 2022, we generated $189.8 million in cash from operations, had a net decrease in borrowings of $102.5 million, had aggregate cash outlays of $53.3 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software and content development costs, and spent $20.9 million for our purchases of EVERFI and Kilter. Security Incident update As discussed in Note 10 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report, t otal costs related to the Security Incident have exceeded the limit of our insurance coverage . Accordingly, we expect that the Security Incident will continue to negatively impact our GAAP profitab ility and GAAP cash flow for the foreseeable future (see discussion regarding our non-GAAP financial measures beginning on page 38 ). Fo r full year 2022, we currently expect net pre-tax expense of approximately $30 million to $35 million for ongoing legal fees related to the Security Incident. In line with our policy, legal fees are expensed as incurred. For full year 2022, we currently expect net cash outlays of approximately $15 million to $25 million for ongoing legal fees related to the Security Incident. As of September 30, 2022, we have recorded approximately $5.0 million in aggregate liabilities for a loss contingencies related to the Security Incident that we believe we can reasonably estimate. Certain of these recorded charges reflect the low end of a range of estimated losses based on our determination that no estimate within that range was better than any other amount. It is reasonably possible that actual losses in the future for those matters will be in excess of the amounts accrued, but we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible additional loss. There are other Security Incident-related matters, including customer claims, customer constituent class actions and governmental investigations, for which we have not recorded a liability for a loss contingency as of September 30, 2022 because we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss. 30 Third Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Results of Operations Comparison of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 We have included the results of operations of acquired companies in our consolidated results of operations from the date of their respective acquisition. We determined that the EVERFI and Kilter acquisitions were not material to our consolidated financial statements; therefore, separate presentation of revenue and earnings since the acquisition date is not required. Revenue and Cost of Revenue Recurring Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud solutions, Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content, hosting services, payment services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, retained and managed services contracts that we expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions. Cost of recurring revenue is primarily comprised of compensation costs for customer support and production IT personnel, hosting and data center costs, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty and data expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations, amortization of software development costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services including remittances of amounts due to third-parties and other costs incurred in providing support and recurring services to our customers. Third Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 31 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Our customers continue to prefer cloud subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services. Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth. Recurring revenue increased by $30.9 million, or 14.1%, and $104.3 million, or 16.2%, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, driven primarily by the following: + Increases in contractual recurring revenue of $27.7 million and $81.6 million, respectively, related to the performance of our cloud solutions, of which $23.7 million and $71.2 million, respectively, was attributable to EVERFI; partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue as customers migrate to our cloud solutions; also offsetting the increases in contractual recurring revenue were decreases related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $1.3 million and $2.3 million, respectively + Increase in transactional recurring revenue of $3.2 million for the three months ended, September 30, 2022, primarily due to an increase in enrollment for our Blackbaud Tuition Management solution resulting in higher transactional volumes. The increase in transactional recurring revenue during the three months ended September 30, 2022, was partially offset by a decrease related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $3.1 million + Increase in transactional recurring revenue of $22.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, primarily due to: an increase in online charitable giving; an increase in enrollment for our Blackbaud Tuition Management solution resulting in a higher transactional volumes; and to a lesser extent, increased transactional volume as our customer's constituents have begun to return to in-person events. The increase in transactional recurring revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2022, was partially offset by a decrease related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $5.5 million For additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results, see Foreign Currency Exchange Rates below on page 47 . Cost of recurring revenue increased by $15.7 million, or 16.3%, and $59.0 million, or 21.1%, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, driven primarily by the following: + Increases in compensation costs of $4.6 million and $17.4 million, respectively, primarily related to an increase in headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI, and a continued shift in resources historically supporting one-time services and other towards recurring revenue + Increases in transaction-based costs of $2.9 million and $12.1 million, respectively, related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments + Increases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $3.4 million and $10.5 million, respectively, due to our acquisition of EVERFI + Increase in third-party contractor and hosting costs of $7.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security; currently, we expect our cloud infrastructure migration efforts and increased level of cybersecurity investments to continue for the foreseeable future + Increases in amortization of software development costs of $1.8 million and $4.1 million, respectively, due to our continued investments in the innovation and security of our solutions + Increase in allocated overhead costs of $3.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 related to the increased headcount discussed above Recurring gross margin decreased by 0.9% and 1.8% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, primarily due to the increase in cost of recurring revenue outpacing the increase in recurring revenue. 32 Third Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) One-time services and other Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, fees for retained and managed services contracts that we do not expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, and third-party software referral fees. Cost of one-time services and other is primarily comprised of compensation costs for professional services and onsite training personnel, other costs incurred in providing onsite customer training, third-party contractor expenses, data expense incurred to perform one-time analytic services, third-party software royalties, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations. One-time services and other revenue decreased by $0.8 million, or 6.1%, and $0.8 million, or 2.1%, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, when compared to the same periods in 2021, driven primarily by the following: - Decreases in one-time analytics revenue of $0.5 million and $2.2 million, respectively, as analytics are generally integrated in our cloud solutions + Increases in one-time consulting revenue of $0.2 million and $1.9 million, respectively, primarily attributable to EVERFI, largely offset by less revenue from implementation and customization services, in line with our multi-year strategic shift from a license-based and one-time services business model to a cloud subscription business model. Our cloud subscription offerings generally require less implementation and customization services. Third Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 33 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Cost of one-time services and other decreased by $2.4 million, or 20.3%, and $8.3 million, or 20.6%, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, driven primarily by the following: - Decreases in compensation costs of $1.4 million and $6.7 million, respectively, largely due to a continued shift in resources historically supporting one-time services and other towards recurring revenue as well as a decrease in professional services headcount - Decrease in allocated overhead costs of $1.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, primarily related to the decreased headcount discussed above One-time services and other gross margin increased by 14.1% and 20.1% during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, primarily due to the significant reductions in compensation costs discussed above. Operating Expenses Sales, marketing and customer success ($M) Research and development ($M) General and administrative ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue Sales, marketing and customer success Sales, marketing and customer success expense includes compensation costs, variable sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs, variable reseller commissions and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We see a large market opportunity in the long-term and will continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness. We have also implemented software tools to enhance our digital footprint and drive lead generation. The enhancements we are making in our go-to-market approach are expected to significantly reduce our average customer acquisition cost per customer as well as the related payback period while increasing sales velocity. 34 Third Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Sales, marketing and customer success expense increased by $11.7 million, or 26.2%, and $25.4 million, or 18.3%, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, primarily driven by the following: + Increases in compensation costs of $6.9 million and $14.6 million, respectively, primarily related to increased employee headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI + Increases in third-party contractor costs of $2.5 million and $3.4 million, respectively, primarily related to strategic consulting + Increases in advertising costs of $1.1 million and $5.0 million, respectively, primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI + Increase in travel costs of $1.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 due to our easing of restrictions on non-essential employee travel, which went into effect during March 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic + Increase in software costs of $1.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 primarily related to our acquisition of EVERFI and our use of digital marketing tools Research and development Research and development expense includes compensation costs for engineering and product management personnel, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new solutions or upgrading and enhancing existing solutions that do not qualify for capitalization, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We continue to make investments to delight our customers with innovative and secure cloud solutions. Research and development expenses increased by $8.9 million, or 28.1%, and $27.8 million or 30.5%, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, primarily driven by the following: + Increases in compensation costs of $7.9 million and $22.0 million, respectively, primarily related to increased employee headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI, and to a lesser extent, our increased hiring of engineers + Increases in third-party contractor costs of $5.0 million and $16.0 million, respectively, primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI and, to a lesser extent, an increase in our use of third-party software developers + Increase in allocated overhead costs of $2.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, primarily related to increased headcount discussed above - Increases in software development costs of $5.4 million and $14.5 million, respectively, that were required to be capitalized under GAAP, of which $5.2 million and $9.3 million was attributable to EVERFI software and content Not included in research and development expense for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 were $15.1 million and $9.7 million, respectively, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 were $43.6 million and $29.2 million, respectively, of qualifying costs associated with software and content development activities that are required to be capitalized under GAAP, such as those for our cloud solutions, as well as development costs associated with acquired companies. Qualifying capitalized development costs associated with our cloud solutions are subsequently amortized to cost of subscriptions revenue over the related assets' estimated useful life, which generally range from three to seven years. General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, third-party professional fees, insurance, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses. Third Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 35 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) General and administrative expense increased by $15.1 million or 43.6%, and $43.7 million, or 44.9%, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2021, primarily driven by the following: + Increases in Security Incident-related expenses, net of insurance, of $12.8 million and $27.9 million, respectively. See "Security Incident update" below on page 43 + Increases in compensation costs of $1.8 million and $8.4 million, respectively, primarily related to increased employee headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI + Increases in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $2.4 million and $5.6 million, respectively, primarily related to aggregate noncash impairment charges of $1.3 million against certain operating lease right-of-use assets and property and equipment assets resulting from our decision to cease using a portion of EVERFI's leased office space. During the nine months ended September 30, 2022, we also recorded a $2.0 million noncash impairment of certain insignificant intangible assets that were held for sale + A $2.3 million noncash impairment charge during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 against previously capitalized software development costs that reduced the carrying value of those assets to zero. The impairment charge resulted primarily from our decision to end customer support for certain solutions + Increase in rent expense of $1.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 primarily related to leases assumed from our acquisition of EVERFI + Increase in third-party contractor costs of $1.4 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 + Increase in travel costs of $1.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 due to our easing of restrictions on non-essential employee travel, which went into effect during March 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic - Increase in allocated corporate IT costs of $4.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 primarily related to investments in security tools. Depreciation, facilities and IT support costs are pooled and recorded to general and administrative expense and allocated to other lines of our condensed statements of comprehensive income based on headcount. 36 Third Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Interest Expense Interest expense ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue The increases in interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021, were primarily due to the new borrowings used to finance our acquisition of EVERFI. We currently expect interest expense for the full year 2022 to be approximately $34 million to $37 million although our interest expense in connection with the variable rate portion of our outstanding debt could increase in a rising interest rate environment. See Note 9 to our condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information regarding our derivative instruments, which we use to manage our variable interest rate risk, and