ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. As discussed in the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements, the following discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors under Part I, Item IA of our Annual Report on Form 10-K (as updated in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to BlackSky, the Company, we, us and our refer to the business and operations of Legacy BlackSky and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Merger and to BlackSky Technology Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, following the closing of the Merger. General Overview On September 9, 2021, Osprey consummated the Merger with Legacy BlackSky. Immediately following the Merger, Osprey changed its name to BlackSky Technology Inc. Legacy BlackSky survived the Merger and is now a wholly owned subsidiary of BlackSky. As a special purpose acquisition company, Osprey had no pre-Merger operations other than to identify and consummate a merger. Therefore, BlackSkys operations post-Merger are attributable to those of Legacy BlackSky and its subsidiaries, and references to BlackSky or the Company should be read to include BlackSkys wholly owned subsidiaries. References in this report to Company actions, assets/liabilities, or contracts may be references to actions taken, assets/liabilities held, or contracts entered into by one or more Company current subsidiaries; however the Company has distinguished between the actions taken by Legacy BlackSky or Osprey for certain time based, historical transactions. The Companys results of operations and statements of assets and liabilities may not be comparable between periods as a result of the Merger. Company Overview We own and operate one of the industry's leading high-performance low earth orbit (LEO) small satellite constellations. Our constellation is optimized to cost-efficiently capture imagery at high revisit rates where and when our customers need it. The orbital configuration of our constellation is designed to collect data on the most critical and strategic locations on Earth where we believe approximately 90% of the global GDP occurs. With twelve satellites on orbit as of March 31, 2022, our constellation is able to image certain locations every hour, from dawn to dusk, providing our customers with insights and situational awareness throughout the day. Our satellites are designed with agile pointing capabilities that enable our customers to task our constellation on demand to collect specific locations of interest. Our tasking methodology employs proprietary artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled software to efficiently collect images of the most important areas of interest to our customers. We believe that our focus on critical strategies and economic infrastructure and the AI-enabled tasking of our constellation differentiates us from our competitors, who are dedicated primarily to mapping the entirety of the Earth every day and who, therefore, require hundreds of satellites to support their mission. Our focused approach enables us to deliver highly targeted and valuable intelligence with a smaller constellation that has the added benefit of greater operating and capital efficiencies. Our Spectra AI software platform processes millions of observations a day from our proprietary satellite constellation and from multiple external data sources including imaging, radar and radio frequency satellites, environmental sensors, asset tracking sensors, Internet-of-Things (IoT) connected devices, internet-enabled narrative sources, and a variety of geotemporal data feeds. Spectra AI employs advanced, proprietary AI and machine learning (ML) techniques to process, analyze, and transform these data feeds into alerts, information, and insights. Customers can access Spectra AI's data and analytics through easy-to-use web services or through platform application programming interfaces. 32 Table of Contents Our next generation satellites (Gen-3), expected to be operational during 2023, are designed to improve our imaging resolution even further and include short wave infrared imaging technology for a broad set of imaging conditions, including nighttime, low-light, and all-weather. We believe these advancements will expand the diversity and certainty of our analytics to continue to ensure our relevance to our customers. We believe the combination of our high-revisit, small satellite constellation, our Spectra AI platform, and low constellation cost is disrupting the market for geospatial imagery and space-based data and analytics. Our operating strategy is to continue to enhance the capabilities of our satellite constellation, to increase the number of third-party data sources processed by Spectra AI, and to expand our analytics offerings in order to increase the value we deliver to our customers. Our two operating assetsour satellite constellation and our Spectra AI software platformare mutually reinforcing: as we capture ever more information about the worlds most important economic and strategic locations, our proprietary database expands and increases its utility; enabling us to better detect, understand, and predict changes that matter most to our customers. Our business has a natural and powerful flywheel effect: the more data we collect and analyze, the more valuable the insights we can deliver to our customers. Our current customer base and end market mix are weighted towards U.S. and international defense and intelligence customers and markets. We believe there are significant opportunities to expand our imagery and software analytical services, as well as our engineering and systems integration offerings, to customers both domestically and internationally. In addition, our products and services can benefit customers in a variety of commercial markets including, but not limited to, energy and utilities, insurance, commodities, mining, manufacturing, maritime and supply chain logistics, financial services, agriculture, environmental monitoring, disaster and risk management, engineering and construction, and consumer behavior. We offer a variety of pricing and utilization options for our imagery and software analytical service offerings, including usage-based pricing, subscriptions and transactional licenses. These options provide customers flexible options to utilize our imagery and software analytical services in a manner that best suits their business needs. We offer a range of pricing tiers that enables the customer to manage collection priorities, where during critical events they can pay a premium to prioritize their monitoring and collection requirements. At other times, customers can select lower priority collections to allow for more economical utilization. We currently derive revenue from variable and fixed pricing plans that allow our customers to choose what matters most to themplatform licensing-levels, priority for imagery tasking, and whether to apply analytics or monitoring capabilities overtop the imaging service. Components of Operating Results Revenue Our revenue is generated by selling imagery and software analytics services through our Spectra AI platform and by providing engineering and systems integration services to strategic customers on a project basis. Imagery and Software Analytical Services Revenue Imagery: We offer our customers high-revisit, on-demand high resolution electro optic satellite imaging services. Through our Spectra AI platform, customers can directly task our proprietary satellite constellation to collect and deliver imagery over specific locations, sites, and regions that are critical to their operations. We offer customers several service level options that include basic plans for on-demand tasking or multi-year assured access programs, where customers can secure priority access and imaging capacity at a premium over a region of interest on a take or pay basis. Data, Software, and Analytics: Our analytics services are also offered on a consumption or subscription basis and provide customers with access to our site monitoring, event monitoring and global data services. We leverage our proprietary AI and ML algorithms to analyze data coming from both our proprietary sensor network and space based and terrestrial third-party sources in real-time to provide data, insights, and analytics for our customers. We provide services related to object, change and anomaly detection, site monitoring, and enhanced analytics through which we can detect key pattern of life changes in critical locations. These critical locations can include strategic locations and infrastructure such as ports, airports, and construction sites; retail activity; 33 Table of Contents commodities stockpiles; and other sites that contain critical commodities and supply chain information. We continue to enhance and integrate our offerings by performing capability development for customers while retaining the intellectual property rights. We provide technology enabled professional service solutions to support customer-specific software development requests, integration, testing, and training in order to embed our imagery and software analytical services into the customers organizational processes. We also provide software systems engineering development to support the efforts of certain customers to manage mass quantities of data. We expect continued imagery and software analytical services revenue growth in the year ending December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year as a result of growth in satellite capacity and sales orders. Engineering and Systems Integration Revenue We develop and deliver advanced launch vehicle, satellite and payload systems for specific strategic customers that desire to leverage our capabilities in mission systems engineering and operations, ground station operations, software, analytics and systems development. These systems are sold to government customers under fixed price contracts and are often bundled with our imagery services offerings. We expect engineering and systems integration revenue growth as we continue to provide customers with unique engineering solutions and deliver critical design reviews. Cost and Expenses Our operating expenses are incurred from the following categories: Imagery and software analytical services costs primarily include internal aerospace and geospatial software development labor, third-party data and imagery, internal labor to support the ground stations and space operations, and cloud computing and hosting services. Costs are expensed as incurred except for incremental costs to obtain a contract, which are capitalized and amortized to selling, general and administrative expenses on a systematic basis consistent with the transfer of goods and services. Expense related to stock-based payments is classified in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss based upon employees cash compensation. We recognize stock-based compensation expense for those employees whose work supports the imagery and software analytical service costs we provide to customers, under imagery and software analytical service costs, excluding depreciation and amortization. For those employees who provide engineering and systems support to customers, the share-based compensation expense is classified under engineering and systems integration costs. For the remaining employees who generally support our business, the stock-based compensation expense is recognized under selling, general and administrative expense in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Engineering and systems integration costs primarily include the cost of internal labor for design, integration, and engineering in support of long-term development contracts for launch vehicle, satellite, and payload systems. We also incur subcontract direct materials and external labor costs to build and test specific components, such as the communications system, payload demands, and sensor integration. Operating Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expense consists of salaries and benefit costs, development costs, professional fees, and other expenses which includes other personnel-related costs, stock-based compensation expenses, and occupancy costs. Our development costs include internal labor costs to develop critical real-time software and geospatial analytic solutions and solution enhancements, including mapping, analysis, site target monitoring, and news feeds. Research and development expense consists of employees salaries, taxes, and benefits costs incurred for data science modeling and algorithm development related to our Spectra AI platform, and to the design, development, and testing of our Gen-3 satellites. In addition, we began employing and classifying third-party vendors who fulfill our unique and strategic projects as research and development expense. We intend 34 Table of Contents to continue to invest appropriate resources in research and development efforts, as we believe that investment is critical to maintaining our competitive position. Depreciation expense is related to property and equipment which mainly consists of operational satellites. Amortization expense is related to intangible assets which mainly consists of customer relationships. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 The following table provides the components of results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021. Period to period comparisons are not necessarily indicative of future results. Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2022 2021 Change Change Revenue (dollars in thousands) Imagery & software analytical services $ 9,772 $ 5,998 $ 3,774 62.9 % Engineering & systems integration 4,124 1,296 2,828 218.2 % Total revenue 13,896 7,294 6,602 90.5 % Costs and expenses Imagery & software analytical service costs, excluding depreciation and amortization 5,907 4,379 1,528 34.9 % Engineering & systems integration costs, excluding depreciation and amortization 5,048 1,130 3,918 346.7 % Selling, general and administrative 22,536 8,478 14,058 165.8 % Research and development 146 28 118 421.4 % Depreciation and amortization 7,391 2,764 4,627 167.4 % Operating loss (27,132) (9,485) (17,647) (186.1) % Gain (loss) on derivatives 8,140 (14,008) 22,148 158.1 % Income on equity method investment 257 196 61 31.1 % Interest expense (1,255) (1,168) (87) (7.4) % Other income (expense), net 2 (144,091) 144,093 100.0 % Loss before income taxes (19,988) (168,556) 148,568 88.1 % Income tax (expense) benefit % Net loss $ (19,988) $ (168,556) $ 148,568 88.1 % NM - Fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2022 2021 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Imagery & software analytical revenue $ 9,772 $ 5,998 $ 3,774 62.9 % % of total revenue 70.3 % 82.2 % Engineering & systems integration revenue 4,124 1,296 2,828 218.2 % % of total revenue 29.7 % 17.8 % Total revenue $ 13,896 $ 7,294 $ 6,602 90.5 % 35 Table of Contents Imagery and Software Analytical Services Revenue Imagery and software analytical services revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, primarily driven by increased imagery and monitoring & analytical orders from both new and existing customers. In the three months ended March 31, 2022, we were awarded a multi-million dollar contract to provide on-demand satellite imagery for an international government, which significantly contributed to the increased revenue in the quarter ended March 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021. Revenue growth from greater demand for imagery was made possible by the expansion of our constellation from launching seven satellites, which increased imagery capacity in 2021, and the growing capabilities of our constellation. Data, monitoring, and analytics revenue also increased primarily from fulfillment of a renewed firm fixed price contract for commodity monitoring. Engineering and Systems Integration Revenue Engineering and systems integration revenue significantly increased for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, primarily due to an increase in the percentage completion of two contracts, driven by achievement of critical design milestones and delivery of major components of the contract requirements. Costs and Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2022 2021 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Imagery & software analytical service costs, excluding depreciation and amortization $ 5,907 $ 4,379 $ 1,528 34.9 % Engineering & systems integration costs, excluding depreciation and amortization 5,048 1,130 3,918 346.7 % Total costs $ 10,955 $ 5,509 $ 5,446 98.9 % Imagery and Software Analytical Service Costs Imagery and software analytical service costs increased for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, primarily driven by enhanced analytic content, third-party service costs such as, increased hosting costs, to meet rising demand and maintaining the growth of our satellite and ground stations networks, and third-party subcontractor costs. Additionally, we recorded $0.8 million of stock-based compensation expense during the three months ended March 31, 2022 primarily related to vesting of restricted stock units ("RSUs") triggered by the successful execution of the Merger. Engineering and Systems Integration Costs Engineering and systems integration costs increased for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, primarily attributable to non-recurring engineering design costs and material procurement costs incurred for customer contracts associated with the Gen-3 satellites. The increase was partially offset by a $1.0 million addition to the forward loss liability in 2022 as compared to the prior period for two customer contracts. 36 Table of Contents Selling, General, and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2022 2021 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Stock-based compensation expense $ 9,319 $ 508 $ 8,811 NM Salaries and benefit costs 7,901 4,701 3,200 68.1 % Development costs 18 154 (136) (88.2) % Professional fees 1,318 1,169 149 12.8 % Information technology, recruiting, and other administrative expenses 1,674 1,237 437 35.3 % Selling and marketing 514 151 363 240.1 % Rent expense 554 506 48 9.6 % Insurance 1,238 52 1,186 NM Selling, general and administrative $ 22,536 $ 8,478 $ 14,058 165.8 % NM - Fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. Selling, general, and administrative expense increased during the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, primarily driven by several factors. First, stock-based compensation expense increased approximately $8.8 million from the prior year related to vesting of RSUs, of which a significant portion vested 180 days following the closing of the Merger. Salaries and payroll-related benefits also increased significantly due to headcount growth in sales, software engineers, executive and administrative functions. In addition, our public company insurance costs increased as a result of the Merger. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2022 2021 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 146 $ 28 $ 118 421.4 % Research and development expense increased approximately $0.1 million, or 421.4% during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was driven by contracting and classifying third-party vendors who fulfill our unique and strategic projects as research and development expense. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2022 2021 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Depreciation $ 7,251 $ 2,426 $ 4,825 198.9 % Amortization 140 338 (198) (58.5) % Depreciation and amortization $ 7,391 $ 2,764 $ 4,627 167.4 % Depreciation expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021 primarily driven by six satellites placed in service in the second half of 2021. There were no satellites placed in service during the three months ended March 31, 2022. 37 Table of Contents Non-Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2022 2021 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Gain (loss) on derivatives 8,140 (14,008) 22,148 158.1 % Income on equity method investment 257 196 61 31.1 % Interest expense (1,255) (1,168) (87) (7.4) % Other income (expense), net 2 (144,091) 144,093 100.0 % NM - Fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. Gain (loss) on derivatives Fluctuations in our derivatives measured at fair value, which include liability classified warrants and pre-merger sponsor shares and are significantly driven by our common stock price, generated a gain during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the fluctuation of fair value related to warrants to purchase Legacy BlackSky series B and C redeemable convertible preferred stock in the three months ended March 31, 2021. Income on equity method investment The fluctuations in earnings from our equity method investment is directly related to the operating performance of our joint venture LeoStella and was consistent year over year. Interest expense Interest expense was consistent year over year. Other income (expense), net Other expenses were significantly higher during the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the same period in 2022, primarily due to an initial loss of $96.5 million upon issuances of the Bridge Notes executed in the first quarter of 2021 as the fair value of these notes and the accompanying common shares and Class A common stock warrants that were granted to certain investors was in excess of the proceeds received. We also incurred $47.6 million in debt issuance costs related to the Bridge Notes and the modification of existing debt arrangements. We expensed the debt issuance costs because the Bridge Notes were carried in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Upon consummation of the Merger, the Bridge Notes and associated warrant liabilities were converted to equity and extinguished. We do not expect similar charges in future periods. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, management utilizes certain non-GAAP performance measures, Adjusted EBITDA, and free cash flow for purposes of evaluating our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. Our management and board of directors believe that these non-GAAP operating measures, when reviewed collectively with our GAAP financial information, provide useful supplemental information to investors in assessing our operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income or loss attributable to us before interest expense, income tax expense or benefit, depreciation and amortization, as well as significant non-cash and/or non-recurring expenses as our management believes these items are not useful in evaluating our core operating performance. These items include, but are not limited to, realized loss on conversion of Bridge Notes, stock-based compensation expense, unrealized (gain)/loss on certain warrants/shares classified as derivatives, satellite impairment loss, (gain) loss on 38 Table of Contents debt extinguishment, (gain)/loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, loss/(gain) on equity method investment, transaction-related legal settlements, transaction costs associated with derivative liabilities, Spaceflight Inc. employee retention bonuses and Spaceflight Inc. related shared services. Spaceflight Inc. was a division of ours divested in June 2020 and certain transition-related expenses and income was incurred during 2021 in conjunction with the transition of this divestiture. We have presented Adjusted EBITDA because it is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our operating performance, generate future operating plans and make strategic decisions regarding the allocation of capital. In particular, we believe that the exclusion of certain items in calculating Adjusted EBITDA can produce a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information in understanding and evaluating our operating results. In addition, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides additional information for investors to use in evaluating our ongoing operating results and trends. This non-GAAP measure provides investors with incremental information for the evaluation of our performance after isolation of certain items deemed unrelated to our core business operations. Adjusted EBITDA is presented as a supplemental measure to our GAAP measures of performance. When evaluating Adjusted EBITDA, you should be aware that we may incur future expenses similar to those excluded when calculating this measure. In addition, our presentation of this measure should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. Furthermore, our computation of Adjusted EBITDA may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures computed by other companies, as the nature of the adjustments that other companies may include or exclude when calculating Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the adjustments reflected in our measure. Because of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation, nor should this measure be viewed as a substitute for the most directly comparable GAAP measure, which is net loss. We compensate for the limitations of non-GAAP measures by relying primarily on our GAAP results. You should review the reconciliation of our net loss to Adjusted EBITDA below and not rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our performance. The table below reconciles our net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Net loss $ (19,988) $ (168,556) Loss on issuance of Bridge Notes, including debt issuance costs expensed for debt carried at fair value 144,099 Stock-based compensation expense 10,240 508 (Gain) loss on derivatives (8,140) 14,008 Depreciation and amortization 7,391 2,764 Interest expense 1,255 1,168 Income on equity method investment (257) (196) Adjusted EBITDA $ (9,499) $ (6,205) Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as cash flows used in, or provided by, operating activitiescontinuing operations plus cash flows used in, or provided by, operating activitiesdiscontinued operations less purchase of property and equipment and satellite procurement work in process. We have presented free cash flow because it is used by our management and board of directors as an indicator of the amount of cash we generate or use and to evaluate our ability to satisfy current and future obligations and to fund future business opportunities. Accordingly, we believe that free cash flow provides useful information to investors and others, enhancing the overall understanding of our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and pursue business opportunities, and allowing for greater transparency with respect to a key financial metric used by our management in their financial and operational decision-making. 39 Table of Contents Free cash flow is not defined by GAAP and should not be considered in isolation of, or as an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are a number of limitations related to the use of free cash flow rather than net cash from (used in) operating activities, which is the most directly comparable GAAP equivalent. Some of these limitations are: free cash flow is not a measure of cash available for discretionary expenditures since we have certain non-discretionary obligations such as debt repayments or capital lease obligations that are not deducted from the measure; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate free cash flow differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. The table below reconciles our net cash used in operating activities to free cash flow for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (12,676) $ (10,583) Purchase of property and equipment (1,926) (17) Satellite procurement work in process (11,499) (7,502) Free cash flow $ (26,101) $ (18,102) Net cash used in investing activities $ (13,425) $ (7,519) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (3,599) 57,791 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our cash and cash equivalents excluding restricted cash totaled $135.9 million and $165.6 million as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. We have incurred losses and generated negative cash flows from operations since our inception in September 2014. As of March 31, 2022, we had an accumulated deficit of $490.9 million. We expect the proceeds received from the Merger will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for the foreseeable future. Our future long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support solution development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the ongoing investments in technology infrastructure, the introduction of new and enhanced solutions, and the continuing market acceptance of our solutions. From time to time, we may seek additional equity or debt financing to fund capital expenditures, strategic initiatives or investments and our ongoing operations. We do not have a line of credit or access to immediate funds and we are not subject to any financial or minimum cash metrics. If we decide, or are required, to seek additional financing from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Funding Requirements We expect our expenses to increase as we increase investments in sales, marketing and product to increase our market share. In addition, we expect to incur increased costs in support of public company operations. We will also continue to incur capital expenditures as we procure and launch satellites to increase capture capacity, as well as investing in our Gen-3 satellites that will significantly enhance our imagery capabilities in the future. Subsequent to March 31, 2022, the Company executed a contract modification reducing the remaining commitment by $3.6 million. 40 Table of Contents Short-term liquidity requirements As of March 31, 2022, our current assets were approximately $151.8 million, consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, trade receivables, prepaid expenses and other current assets, and contract assets. As of March 31, 2022, our current liabilities were approximately $31.6 million, consisting primarily of accounts payable and accrued liabilities, contract liabilities, and other non-recurring current liabilities. Accordingly, we have sufficient cash and working capital to fund our short-term liquidity requirements. Long-Term Liquidity Requirements We anticipate that our most significant long-term liquidity and capital needs will relate to continued funding of operations, satellite development capital expenditures, launch capital expenditures, and ongoing investments in our Spectra AI platform and internal infrastructure that will enable us to scale the business efficiently and securely. We believe the cash available to us from the consummation of the Merger, including the sale of the PIPE Shares, will be sufficient to cover forecasted capital needs and operating expenditures for the foreseeable future. If adequate funds are not available to accomplish our anticipated long-term growth, we believe we will be able to fund future cash needs through a combination debt financing or equity raises. If we raise funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The availability and the terms under which we can borrow additional capital could be disadvantageous, and the terms of debt securities or borrowings could impose significant restrictions on our operations. Macroeconomic conditions and credit markets could also impact the availability and cost of potential future debt financing. Cash Flow Analysis For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 The following table provides a summary of cash flow data for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ (dollars in thousands) Change Net cash used in operating activities $ (12,676) $ (10,583) $ (2,093) Net cash used in investing activities (13,425) (7,519) (5,906) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (3,599) 57,791 (61,390) Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (29,700) 39,689 (69,389) Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash beginning of year 168,104 10,573 157,531 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash end of year $ 138,404 $ 50,262 $ 88,142 Operating activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in operating activities was approximately $12.7 million. The contributor to the increase in cash used during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was the operating loss increase, adjusted for depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The operating loss increase in the three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily due to increased salaries and payroll-related benefits for headcount growth across the organization. 41 Table of Contents Investing activities We continue to have significant cash outflows for satellite procurement and launch related services. In the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in investing activities increased approximately $5.9 million related to cash paid for the procurement of satellites and other launch-related costs. Financing activities The most significant impact in the change in cash flows from financing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 was related to the $58.1 million loan proceeds from the Bridge Notes in the prior period. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes requires management to make judgments, estimates, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Management has based its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For a description of our significant accounting policies see Note 2Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Management believes the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition The recognition and measurement of revenue requires the use of judgments and estimates. Specifically, judgment is used in interpreting complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions and determining when all criteria for revenue recognition have been met. We primarily generate revenue from the sale of imagery, data, software, and analytics, including professional services, and engineering and systems integration from long-term construction contracts. Identifying the performance obligations contained in a contract, determining transaction price, allocating transaction price, and determining when performance obligations are satisfied can require the application of significant judgment, as further discussed below. Identifying the performance obligations in a contract We execute contracts for a single promise or multiple promises. Specifically, our firm fixed price contracts typically include multiple promises which are accounted for as separate performance obligations. Significant judgment is required in determining performance obligations, and these decisions could change the amount of revenue and profit or loss recorded in each period. Classification of Revenue We classify revenue as imagery and software analytical services, and engineering and systems integration in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss based on the predominant attributes of the performance obligations. Determination of and Allocation of Transaction Price Each customer purchase order sets forth the transaction price for the products and services purchased under the arrangement. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we evaluate whether the stated selling prices for 42 Table of Contents the products or services represent their standalone selling prices. When it is necessary to allocate the transaction price to multiple performance obligations, management typically uses the expected cost plus a reasonable profit margin to estimate the standalone selling price of each product or service. We also sell standard products or services with observable standalone revenue transactions. In these situations, the observable standalone revenue transactions are used to determine the standalone selling price. Determination of when Performance Obligations are Satisfied Imagery revenue is recognized at the point-in-time the customer receives access to the imagery, or ratably over the subscription period. In certain firm fixed price contracts that contain imagery where it is probable we will receive the full contract amount or the customer prepays for future services which may expire unused, our accounting policy for unexercised performance obligations is to recognize the estimated unused amount as revenue over time in proportion to the historical pattern of rights exercised by the customer. The unrecognized amount is recorded within contract liabilities on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. Software analytical services revenue derived from data, software, and analytics, including professional service solutions, is recognized from the rendering of services over time on a cost-plus-fixed-fee, firm fixed price, or a time and materials basis, as well as, at the point-in-time the customer receives access to an analytic product. Engineering & systems integration revenue is primarily generated from fixed price long-term engineering and integration construction contracts. Due to the long-term nature of these contracts, we generally recognize revenue over time using a cost-to-cost measure of progress because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer as we incur costs on the contracts. Under the percentage-of-completion cost-to-cost measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs to complete the performance obligation(s). The estimation of total estimated costs at completion is subject to many variables and requires judgment. We recognize changes in contract estimates on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the changes are identified. Such changes in contract estimates can result in the recognition of revenue in a current period for performance obligations which were satisfied or partially satisfied in a prior period. If at any time, the estimate of contract profitability indicates a probable anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the total loss as and when known. Equity Valuations As there was not a market for Legacy BlackSky equity, valuations of Legacy BlackSky equity instruments required the application of significant estimates, assumptions, and judgments. These valuations impacted various amounts and accounting conclusions reflected in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, inclusive of the recognition of equity-based compensation, debt discounts when debt issuances were accompanied by the issuance of equity (e.g., warrants), and the evaluation of whether beneficial conversion features existed within our convertible financial instruments. The following discussion provides additional details regarding the significant estimates, assumptions, and judgments that impacted the determination of the fair values of equity-based compensation awards, warrants, and the preferred stock and common stock that comprised our capital structure prior to the Merger. The following discussion also explains why these estimates, assumptions, and judgments could be subject to uncertainties and future variability. Equity-Based Compensation Legacy BlackSky issued equity and equity-based awards under our 2014 Plan and the 2011 Plan. Awards issued as of the year ended December 31, 2020 include stock options and restricted stock awards (RSAs). Subsequent to December 31, 2020, we also issued RSUs. Awards under these Plans were approved by the board of directors, and awards that have been canceled, forfeited, or expired are available for issuance in connection with BlackSky's 2021 Equity Incentive Plan. For purposes of recognizing equity-based compensation related to RSAs, RSUs, and stock options granted to employees, management estimates the grant date fair values of such awards to measure the costs to be recognized for services received. For awards with time-based vesting conditions, we recognize compensation costs based upon the straight-line amortization of the grant date fair value of the awards over the requisite service period. When equity-based compensation awards include a performance condition, no compensation is recognized until the performance condition is deemed probable to occur; we then recognize compensation costs based on the accelerated attribution method, which accounts for awards with discrete vesting dates as if they were a separate award. 43 Table of Contents We now estimate the grant date fair value of RSAs and RSUs based upon the trading price of our Class A common stock. Our historical approach to estimating the fair value of Legacy BlackSkys Class A common stock is subsequently described in the discussion of Preferred Stock and Common Stock Valuations. We estimated the fair value of Legacy BlackSky's stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, as subsequently described. Stock Option and Class A Common Stock Warrant Valuations Legacy BlackSky used the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to value all options and Class A common stock warrants. Estimating the fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires the application of significant assumptions, such as the fair value of our Class A common stock, the estimated term of the options, risk-free interest rates, the expected volatility of the price of our Class A common stock, and an expected dividend yield. Each of these assumptions is subjective, requires significant judgement, and is based upon managements best estimates. If any of these assumptions were to change significantly in the future, equity-based compensation related to future awards may differ significantly, as compared with awards previously granted. We have largely moved towards granting RSAs and RSUs to certain employees. We use the following inputs under Black-Scholes as follows: Fair Value of Class A Common StockRefer to the subsequent discussion of Preferred Stock and Common Stock Valuation for a detailed discussion of the valuation techniques and assumptions applied to value the Class A common stock prior to the Merger. Subsequent to the Merger, our Class A common stock has been valued based upon our trading price. Expected Dividend YieldThe Black-Scholes valuation model requires an expected dividend yield as an input. The dividend yield is based on historical experience and expected future changes. We currently have no plans to pay dividends on our Class A common stock and, accordingly, have assumed no dividend yield upon valuation of our stock options. Expected VolatilityAs there was no observable volatility with respect to our Legacy BlackSky Class A common stock, the expected volatility of our Legacy BlackSky and BlackSky Class A common stock was estimated based upon the historical share price volatility of guideline comparable companies. Risk-free Interest RateThe yield on actively traded, non-inflation indexed U.S. Treasury notes was used to extrapolate an average risk-free interest rate based on the expected term of the underlying grants. Expected TermFor options granted in 2021, since there is not a history of option exercises as a public company, we considered the option vesting terms and contractual period, as well as the demographics of the holders, in estimating the expected term. For options granted prior to 2021, the expected term was the estimated duration to a liquidation event based on a weighted average consideration of the most likely exit prospects for that stage of development. Legacy BlackSky was privately funded and, accordingly, the lack of marketability was factored into the expected term of options granted. We will continue to review our estimate in the future and adjust it, if necessary, due to changes in our historical exercises. Private Placement Warrants and Sponsor Earn-Out Shares We classify the Private Placement Warrants and Sponsor Earn-Out Shares as long-term liabilities in our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2022. Each liability was initially recorded at fair value on the date of the Merger. The Private Placement Warrants are recorded at fair value using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and the Sponsor Earn-Out Shares are recorded at fair value using a Monte Carlo simulation model. These liabilities are re-measured to fair value at each subsequent reporting date and recorded to gain (loss) on derivatives on our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. We will continue to adjust the liability for changes in fair value until the financial instruments are exercised, redeemed, cancelled or released. The fair value models require inputs including, but not limited to, the fair value of our Class A common stock, the risk-free interest rate, expected term, expected dividend yield and expected volatility. The fair value of our Class A common stock is the closing stock price on the NYSE as of the measurement date. The risk-free interest rate assumption is determined by using U.S. Treasury rates for the same period as the expected terms of the financial 44 Table of Contents instruments. The dividend yield assumption is based on the dividends expected to be paid over the expected life of the financial instruments. We have historically been a private company and lacked sufficient company-specific historical and implied volatility information. Therefore, the expected stock volatility is based on the historical volatility of a publicly traded set of peer companies. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the estimate of the fair value of these instruments and ultimately the change in fair value.