Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations Seasonality in Item 7 in this report. Working Capital For a discussion of our working capital practices, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7 in this report. Available Information Our website address is www.blackbaud.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC, but other information on our website is not incorporated into this report. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains these reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Information About Our Executive Officers The following table sets forth information concerning our executive officers as of February 15, 2024: Name Age Title Michael P. Gianoni 63 Chief Executive Officer, President and Vice Chairman of the Board Anthony W. Boor 61 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer David J. Benjamin 52 Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer Kevin P. Gregoire 56 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Kevin R. McDearis 56 Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer Jon W. Olson 60 Senior Vice President and General Counsel 14 2023 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Michael P. Gianoni joined us as Chief Executive Officer and President in January 2014 and was appointed Vice Chairman of the Board in January 2024. Prior to joining us, he served as Executive Vice President and Group President, Financial Institutions at Fiserv, Inc., a global technology provider serving the financial services industry, from January 2010 to December 2013. He joined Fiserv as President of its Investment Services division in December 2007. Mr. Gianoni was Executive Vice President and General Manager of CheckFree Investment Services, which provided investment management solutions to financial services organizations, from June 2006 until December 2007 when CheckFree was acquired by Fiserv. From May 1994 to November 2005, he served as Senior Vice President of DST Systems Inc., a global provider of technology-based service solutions. Mr. Gianoni is a member of the Board of Directors of Teradata Corporation, a publicly traded global big data analytics company, and has been Chairman of the Board since February 2020. Mr. Gianoni has served on several nonprofit boards across several segments, including relief organizations, hospitals and higher education. He currently is a board member of the International African American Museum and a member of the President's Advisory Group at the Medical University of South Carolina. He holds an AS in electrical engineering from Waterbury State Technical College, a BS with a business concentration from Charter Oak State College, and an MBA and an honorary Doctorate from the University of New Haven. Anthony W. Boor joined us as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in November 2011 and served as our interim President and Chief Executive Officer from August 2013 to January 2014. Prior to joining us, he served as an executive with Brightpoint, Inc., a global provider of device lifecycle services to the wireless industry, beginning in 1999, most recently as its Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. He also served as the interim President of Europe, Middle East and Africa during Brightpoint's significant restructuring of that region. Mr. Boor served as Director of Business Operations for Brightpoint North America from August 1998 to July 1999. Prior to joining Brightpoint, Mr. Boor was employed in various financial positions with Macmillan Computer Publishing, Inc., a Viacom owned book publishing company specializing in computer hardware and software related topics, Day Dream Publishing, Inc., a publishing company specializing in calendars, posters and time management materials, Ernst & Young LLP, an accounting firm, Expo New Mexico, a state-owned fair and expo grounds and live pari-mutual horse racing venue, KPMG LLP, an accounting firm, and Ernst & Whinney LLP, an accounting firm. He holds a BS in Accounting from New Mexico State University. David J. Benjamin has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer since July 2022. He joined us as Executive Vice President and President, International Markets Group in April 2018. Prior to joining us, Mr. Benjamin was Senior Vice President and General Manager at Box, a cloud content management platform for businesses, from October 2016 to March 2022. Prior to that, he was Vice President of Global Services at British Telecom, a multinational telecommunications holding company, from October 2007 to September 2016. Prior to that, he was at Guardian Media Group, a mass media company owning various media operations company, where he served as Divisional Chief Operating Officer, among other leadership roles, from June 1995 to September 2007. He holds a BA in European Business from London Metropolitan University and an MBA from The Manchester Metropolitan University. Kevin P. Gregoire has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since July 2022. Prior to that, he was the Executive Vice President and President of U.S. Markets since April 2021. He joined us as Executive Vice President and President, Enterprise Markets Group in April 2018. Prior to joining us, Mr. Gregoire was Group President of the Financial Institutions Group at Fiserv, a global technology provider serving the financial services industry, from March 2014 until February 2018. He joined Fiserv in December 2002 and served in other key leadership roles including Division President and Chief Operating Officer, Card Services, and Senior Vice President of Product and Network Strategy. Mr. Gregoire is also a veteran of the United States Army, where he served as Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers and was awarded three Army Commendation Medals. He holds a BS from the United States Military Academy at West Point, and an MBA from the F.W. Olin School of Business at Babson College. Kevin R. McDearis has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since October 2016 and is responsible for the companys global product and technology portfolio, including cybersecurity. He joined us in August 2014 as our Senior Vice President of Global Product Development. Prior to joining us, Mr. McDearis was the Chief Information Officer at Manhattan Associates, Inc., a technology leader in supply chain and omnichannel commerce, from August 2012 to July 2014. He was responsible for leading a global IT organization in strategy development, organization development, portfolio and project management, software and infrastructure engineering, service delivery and operations. Prior to that, Mr. McDearis served as Chief Technology Officer for the Enterprise Technology Group and other key leadership positions at Fiserv (formerly CheckFree), a global technology provider serving the financial services industry, from October 1996 to August 2012. Mr. McDearis serves on the Board of Directors for the USS Yorktown Foundation. He also served on the Board of Directors of the Technology Association of Georgia from 2011 to 2016 and as Vice Chairman of the Board in 2014. He holds a BS in Management from The Georgia Institute of Technology. 2023 Form 10-K 15 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Jon W. Olson joined us as Senior Vice President and General Counsel in September 2008. Mr. Olson is responsible for Blackbaud's legal activities. Prior to joining us, he was an attorney with Alcatel-Lucent USA, the U.S. subsidiary of Alcatel-Lucent (now owned by Nokia Corporation) that designs, develops, and builds wireline, wireless, and converged communications networks, from July 1997 to September 2008. Prior to joining Alcatel-Lucent, Mr. Olson was employed in legal positions with MCI, Inc., a global business and residential communications company, from September 1996 to July 1997, and Unisys Corporation, a global information technology company, from July 1992 to September 1996. Mr. Olson is a member of the MUSC (Medical University of South Carolina) Hollings Cancer Center Advisory Board and is on the board of Charleston Jazz. He holds a BS from Georgetown University, a JD from Dickinson School of Law and an MBA from Seton Hall University. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business operations face a number of risks. These risks should be read and considered with other information provided in this report. Strategic Risks Our failure to compete successfully, including through technology innovations or new and improved solutions, could cause our revenue or market share to decline. Our market is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and there are limited barriers to entry for many segments of this market. The companies we compete with and other potential competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources, generate greater revenue and have better name recognition than we do. Also, a large, diversified software enterprise could decide to enter the market directly, including through acquisitions. Competitive pressures can adversely impact our business by limiting the prices we can charge our customers and making the adoption and renewal of our solutions more difficult. Our competitors might also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with resellers and third-party consulting firms or other parties with whom we have had relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our solutions. These competitive pressures could cause our revenue and market share to decline. In addition, the introduction of solutions encompassing new technologies can render existing solutions obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to enhance existing solutions and develop and introduce in a timely manner or acquire new solutions that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to develop or acquire on a timely and cost-effective basis new software solutions or enhancements to existing solutions or if such new solutions or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, we may be unable to compete successfully and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Because competition for highly qualified personnel is intense, we might not be able to attract and retain key personnel needed to support our planned growth. To meet our objectives successfully, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel with specialized skill sets. If we are unable to attract and retain suitably qualified management, there could be a material adverse impact on our business. Further, we use equity incentive programs and equity awards in lieu of cash as part of our overall employee compensation agreements to both attract and retain personnel. A decline in our stock price could negatively impact the value of these equity incentive and related compensation programs as retention and recruiting tools. We may need to create new or additional equity incentive programs and/or compensation packages to remain competitive, which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders and/or adversely affect our results of operations. 16 2023 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. The market for software and services for the social impact community might not grow and the organizations in that community might not continue to adopt, or renew their subscriptions for, our solutions and services. Many organizations in the social impact community, including nonprofits, foundations, companies, education institutions, and healthcare organizations, have not traditionally used integrated and comprehensive software and services for their specific needs. We cannot be certain that the market for such solutions and services will continue to develop and grow or that these organizations will elect to adopt our solutions and services rather than continue to use traditional, less automated methods, attempt to develop software internally, rely upon legacy software systems, or use software solutions not specifically designed for this market. Organizations that have already invested substantial resources in other fundraising methods or other non-integrated software solutions might be reluctant to adopt our solutions and services to supplement or replace their existing systems or methods. In addition, the implementation of one or more of our software solutions can involve significant capital commitments by our customers, which they may be unwilling or unable to make. If demand for and market acceptance of our solutions and services does not increase, we might not grow our business as we expect. Furthermore, our subscription arrangements are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with three-year renewals thereafter. Our maintenance arrangement renewals are generally for a term of three years. As the end of the contract term approaches, we seek the renewal of the agreement with the customer. Historically, subscription and maintenance renewals have represented a significant portion of our total revenue. Because of this characteristic of our business, if our customers choose not to renew their subscriptions or maintenance arrangements with us on beneficial terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions and services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels due to general economic conditions, extraordinary business interruptions, client-specific financial issues or otherwise. We are incorporating generative artificial intelligence, or AI, technology into certain of our products and services. This technology is new and developing, and while we aim to adopt known best practices, it may result in operational, financial and reputational harm and other adverse consequences to our business. We are implementing AI features in certain of our products and services. The technologies underpinning these features are in the early stages of commercial use and exist in an emerging regulatory environment, which presents regulatory, litigation, ethical, reputational, operational and financial risks. Many U.S. and international governmental bodies and regulators have proposed, or are in the process of developing, new regulations related to the use of AI and machine learning technologies. The final form of these may impose obligations related to our development, offering and use of AI technologies and expose us to increased risk of regulatory enforcement and litigation. We also expect that many of our generative AI features will include the processing of personal data and may be subject to laws, policies, legal obligations and codes of conduct related to privacy and data protection. There is uncertainty about the extent to which privacy and data protection laws apply to AI technologies, and any delay in addressing privacy or data protection concerns relating to our AI features may result in liability or regulatory investigations and fines, as well as harm to our sales and reputation. In addition, issues relating to intellectual property rights in AI-generated content have not been fully addressed by the courts, laws or regulations. Accordingly, the implementation of generative AI technologies into our products and services may result in exposure to claims related to copyright infringement or other intellectual property misappropriation. Furthermore, many of our AI features may rely on third-party service providers. As such, any improper processing of personal data by these service providers could harm our reputation, business or customers, or expose us to legal liability. Any disruption or failure in our AI systems or infrastructure could result in delays or errors in our operations, which could harm our business and financial results. Our generative AI technology features may also generate output that is misleading, insecure, inaccurate, harmful or otherwise flawed, which may harm our reputation, business or customers, or expose us to legal liability. Also, some AI scenarios present ethical issues. If we enable or offer AI solutions that are controversial because of their purported or actual impact on human rights, privacy, employment or other social issues, we may experience reputational harm. New and emerging AI technologies may require additional investment in the development and maintenance of various models, approaches and processes, as well as development of protections and safeguards for the use of AI technologies, which may be expensive and could impact our financial results if we decide to further expand generative AI into our products and services. Likewise, the use of AI involves significant technical complexity and requires specialized expertise. The success of any enhancement or new product depends on many factors, including its relevance to our customers, timely implementation and market acceptance. If our enhanced products and services do not achieve widespread market adoption 2023 Form 10-K 17 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. or there is a reduction in demand due to a lack of customer acceptance, technology challenges, strengthening competition, weakening economic conditions, or security or privacy concerns, our business could be harmed and our financial results could be adversely affected. Although we aim to develop and use AI responsibly and attempt to identify and mitigate ethical and legal issues presented by its use, we may be unsuccessful in identifying or resolving issues before they arise. If we do not successfully address the risks inherent in the expansion of our international operations, our business could suffer. We currently have non-U.S. operations primarily in the U.K., Canada, Australia and Costa Rica, and we intend to expand further into international markets. Expansion of our international operations will require a significant amount of attention from our management and substantial financial resources and might require us to add qualified management in these markets. Our direct sales model requires us to attract, retain and manage qualified sales personnel capable of selling into markets outside the United States. In some cases, our costs of sales might increase if our customers require us to sell through local distributors. If we are unable to grow our international operations in a cost-effective and timely manner, our business and operating results could be harmed. Increases in our international revenues denominated in foreign currencies subject us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we expand our international operations, exposures to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions may increase. (See Foreign Currency Exchange Rates on page 59 for more information regarding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on our operations.) Doing business internationally involves additional risks that could harm our operating results. Along with risks similar to those faced by our U.S. operations, our international operations are also subject to risks related to differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions, including: the imposition of additional withholding taxes or other tax on our foreign income, tariffs or restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; greater risk of a failure of our employees and partners to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including antitrust regulations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, and any trade regulations ensuring fair trade practices; the imposition of, or unexpected adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those pertaining to export restrictions, privacy and data protection, trade and employment restrictions and intellectual protections; and general business disruptions caused by geopolitical situations and developments. Unfavorable media coverage related to peer-to-peer fundraising campaigns on our social platforms could negatively impact our business. Our online social giving platforms receive a high degree of media coverage for particularly news-worthy or controversial fundraising campaigns, as well as for our fee-based business model. Although our terms of service provide express limitations on the platforms' user-initiated fundraising campaigns and reserve our right to remove content that violates our terms of service, it may not always be possible to remove such content prior to it receiving attention in the media. Negative publicity related to our online social giving platforms could have an adverse effect on the size, engagement and loyalty of our user base and could result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Acquisitions could be difficult to consummate and integrate into our operations, and they could disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we, from time to time, seek to grow our business through acquisitions of new or complementary businesses, technologies or products that we believe can improve our ability to compete in our existing customer markets or allow us to enter new markets. The potential risks associated with acquisitions and investment transactions include, but are not limited to: failure to realize anticipated returns on investment, cost savings and synergies; difficulty in assimilating the operations, policies and personnel of the acquired company; unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions; 18 2023 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. challenges in combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we may not have experience; distraction of managements attention from normal business operations; potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; difficulty implementing effective internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure