ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis presents financial information denominated in millions of dollars which can lead to differences from rounding when compared to similar information contained in the unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes which are primarily denominated in thousands of dollars. Executive Summary We are the worlds leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good communitynonprofits, higher education institutions, K12 schools, healthcare organizations, faith communities, arts and cultural organizations, foundations, companies and individual change agentswe connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through cloud software, services, expertise and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility (CSR) and environmental, social and governance (ESG), school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics. Serving the industry for more than four decades, we are a remote-first company headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina, with operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom. Our revenue is primarily generated from the following sources: (i) charging for the use of our software solutions in cloud and hosted environments; (ii) providing payment and transactional services; (iii) providing software maintenance and support services; providing Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content; and (iv) providing professional services, including implementation, consulting, training, analytic and other services. COVID-19 Impact The economic impact of COVID-19 on the social good industry remains somewhat uncertain, although we are seeing signs of recovery in the industry. Our end markets continue to display resilience in the post-pandemic recovery with a digital-first mindset. In February, the Blackbaud Institute released its annual Charitable Giving Report, which reported that overall giving in 2021 grew 9% with the percent of giving done online up significantly from pre-pandemic levels and holding steady in the low-teens. Nearly 30% of those online donations are being made on a mobile device, which we see as a long-term positive as we equip organizations to process mobile donations and optimize mobile user interfaces. If our existing and prospective customers remain cautious in their purchase decisions, our operating environment may continue to be challenging. Notwithstanding these conditions, we remain focused on continuing to execute our four-point strategy and strengthening our leadership position. Four-Point Strategy 1 Expand Total Addressable Market 2 Lead with World Class Teams and Operations 3 Delight Customers with Innovative Cloud Solutions 4 Focus on Employees, Culture and ESG Initiatives 22 First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) 1. Expand Total Addressable Market ("TAM") In December 2021, we doubled our TAM when we acquired EVERFI, an industry leader in global social impact technology. Adding EVERFI advances our position as a leader in the rapidly evolving ESG and CSR spaces and offers cross-selling and upselling opportunities through complementary product offerings with YourCause solutions. Our TAM now stands at over $20 billion, and we remain active in the evaluation of opportunities to further expand our addressable market through acquisitions and internal product development. 2. Lead with World Class Teams and Operations This strategy expands upon our previous strategies to drive sales effectiveness and improve operating efficiency to include improving overall company performance as measured by the Rule of 40 (see discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures below). W e recently welcomed two accomplished leaders to our team as we look to drive future innovation and customer delight, a Chief Product Officer, to oversee our global product portfolio and a Chief Information Security Officer, to oversee our global trust and security program including all elements of cybersecurity. 3. Delight Customers with Innovative Cloud Solutions We are excited about the role Blackbaud is playing in developing innovative solutions for our customers to diversify the way they receive and process donations. Recently, we announced a new product integration in the U.S. between Blackbaud Merchant Services, our end-to-end payment processing solution, and PayPal allowing social good organizations to offer donors the option to checkout with PayPal or Venmo. Through this integration, Blackbaud customers will have access to a broader audience of donors with PayPal's more than 400 million active consumer accounts enabling a more satisfying giving experience to expand impact. We are also driving a differentiated giving experience through our partnership with Change, to provide Blackbaud's corporate customers an option to run charitable campaigns at point-of-sale like roundups after purchase, match customer donations and offer donation options in loyalty programs. Change is a good example of the ecosystem we are building through our Social Good Startup Program. Their platform is already making an impact in the mission-driven commerce space, including enabling a new frontier of giving with cryptocurrency. We also recently held our Product Update Briefings, a semi-annual event designed to share new product features and roadmaps. We provided updates on innovations in the pipeline for Raiser's Edge NXT, Financial Edge NXT, Grantmaking, Data Intelligence, Payment Services, Luminate Online and TeamRaiser, JustGiving, and SKY Developer, to name a few. New this year, we hosted an executive summary session that briefly highlighted our most important product enhancements and strategies, which can be accessed along with all the sessions by visiting our corporate website. Also, in just over a month, we are projecting our highest turnout ever at our developers' conference designed as a learning event that brings together all levels of developers and technology enthusiasts to share best practices, collaborate with Blackbaud product experts and build relationships with peers. We continue to drive significant growth in our non-Blackbaud developer ecosystem consisting of customers, consultants, partners and individual change agents. 4. Focus on Employees, Culture and ESG Initiatives We recently announced that we achieved carbon neutrality for 2021. This is a goal we have been striving towards and our shift to a remote-first workforce enabled us to accelerate our timeline. Since 2019, Blackbaud has reduced its global real estate footprint by 50%, energy emissions to run office space by 63% and employee commute emissions by 75%. With a multi-pronged climate strategy, Blackbaud is focused on reducing emissions, using energy efficiently and investing in environmental projects for a more sustainable future. We will share more about our ESG strategy on our Corporate Social Responsibility website, which we expect to launch this quarter. Our mission driven culture has been in our DNA since inception and is very attractive in a competitive labor market. We continue to foster a diverse and inclusive environment focused on employee engagement and connectedness with our remote-first workforce strategy. For example, of our most recent hires, nearly 67% have come from historically under-represented groups. We have a significant role to play in driving advances in the social good space, and we are proud of the strong corporate culture we have built and continue to cultivate in today's environment. First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 23 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Financial Summary Total revenue ($M) Income from operations ($M) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Total revenue increased by $37.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021, driven largely by the following: + Growth in recurring revenue primarily related to: an increase in contractual recurring revenue of $27.7 million related to the performance of our cloud solutions, $24.1 million of which was attributable to EVERFI; partially offset by a decrease in maintenance revenue as customers migrate to our cloud solutions; and an increase in transactional revenue of $10.2 million primarily due to an increase in online charitable giving, the continued shift toward virtual fundraising and, to a lesser extent, increased transactional volume as our customer's constituents have begun to return to in-person events. + Increase in one-time consulting revenue due primarily to our acquisition of EVERFI, largely offset by a decrease in implementation and customization services, in line with our multi-year strategic shift from a license-based and one-time services business model to a cloud subscription business model. Our cloud subscription offerings generally require less implementation and customization services. - Decrease in one-time analytics revenue as analytics are generally integrated in our cloud solutions 24 First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Income from operations decreased by $12.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021, driven largely by the following: + Increase in total revenue, as described above + Decrease in stock-based compensation expense of $2.1 million attributable to a change in the timing of our annual short-term incentive ("STI") equity award grants from the second quarter during 2020 to the first quarter beginning in 2021, which resulted in double-expense for STI awards during the first quarter of 2021 - Increase in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $23.7 million primarily due to increased employee headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI - Increases in third-party contractor and hosting costs of $7.8 million and $2.7 million, respectively, primarily attributable to our acquisition of EVERFI and, to a lesser extent, our continued migration of our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and investments in security - Increase in Security Incident-related expenses, net of insurance, of $7.2 million. See "Security Incident update" below. - Increase in transaction-based costs of $5.1 million related to payment services integrated in our cloud solutions - Increase in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $3.6 million due to our acquisition of EVERFI - Increase in marketing costs of $2.1 million primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI - Increase in corporate IT costs of $1.2 million primarily related to our acquisition of EVERFI and investments in security tools We are continuing to make critical investments in the business in areas such as digital marketing, engineering, security, customer success and our continued shift of cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers. Our profitability through the first quarter reflects the addition of EVERFI and some of these incremental investments that were pushed from 2021 into 2022, particularly in areas where we are increasing headcount. Customer retention Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud subscription delivery model. In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs. Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides a better representation of our customers' overall behavior. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2022, approximately 92% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained. This customer retention rate is materially unchanged from our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2021 and reflects our efforts to rationalize our portfolio of solutions and migrate customers from legacy solutions towards our next generation solutions. First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 25 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Balance sheet and cash flow At March 31, 2022, our cash and cash equivalents were $33.8 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2020 Credit Facility was $922.0 million. Our net leverage ratio was 3.57 to 1.00. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we generated $24.5 million in cash from operations, had a net increase in borrowings of $25.6 million and had aggregate cash outlays of $16.9 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs. Security Incident update As discussed in Note 10 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report, t otal costs related to the Security Incident that we expect will be recoverable exceeded the limit of our insurance coverage during the first quarter of 2022 . Accordingly, we expect that the Security Incident will continue to negatively impact our GAAP profitability and GAAP cash flow for the foreseeable future (see discussion regarding our non-GAAP financial measures beginning on page 32 ). For full year 2022, we currently expect net cash outlays of approximately $25 million to $35 million for ongoing legal fees related to the Security Incident. In line with our policy, legal fees, are expensed as incurred. We have not recorded a liability for a loss contingency related to the Security Incident as of March 31, 2022 because we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss. Results of Operations Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 We have included the results of operations of EVERFI in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. We determined that the EVERFI acquisition was not material to our consolidated financial statements; therefore, separate presentation of revenue and earnings since the acquisition date is not required. Revenue and Cost of Revenue Recurring Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud solutions, hosting services, payment services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, retained and managed services contracts that we expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions. 26 First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Cost of recurring revenue is primarily comprised of compensation costs for customer support and production IT personnel, hosting and data center costs, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty and data expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations, amortization of software development costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services including remittances of amounts due to third-parties and other costs incurred in providing support and recurring services to our customers. Our customers continue to prefer cloud subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services. Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth. Recurring revenue increased by $37.9 million, or 18.3%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021, driven primarily by the following: + Increase in contractual recurring revenue of $27.7 million related to the performance of our cloud solutions, $24.1 million of which was attributable to EVERFI; partially offset by a decrease in maintenance revenue as customers migrate to our cloud solutions + Increase in transactional revenue of $10.2 million primarily due to an increase in online charitable giving, the continued shift toward virtual fundraising and, to a lesser extent, increased transactional volume as our customer's constituents have begun to return to in-person events. Cost of recurring revenue increased by $23.3 million, or 26.2%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021, driven primarily by the following: + Increase in compensation costs of $7.6 million primarily related to an increase in headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI, and a continued shift in resources historically supporting one-time services and other towards recurring revenue + Increase in transaction-based costs of $5.1 million related to payment services integrated in our cloud solutions + Increase in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $3.5 million due to our acquisition of EVERFI + Increase in third-party contractor and hosting costs of $3.9 million as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security + Increase in overhead allocations of $1.6 million related to the increased headcount discussed above + Increase in amortization of software development costs of $1.1 million Recurring gross margin decreased by 2.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021, primarily due to the increase in cost of recurring revenue outpacing the increase in recurring revenue. First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) One-time services and other Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, fees for retained and managed services contracts that we do not expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, and third-party software referral fees. Cost of one-time services and other is primarily comprised of compensation costs for professional services and onsite training personnel, other costs incurred in providing onsite customer training, third-party contractor expenses, data expense incurred to perform one-time analytic services, third-party software royalties, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations. One-time services and other revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2022 remained relatively consistent with the same period in 2021, and included the following activity: + Increase in one-time consulting revenue of $1.0 million primarily attributable to EVERFI, largely offset by less revenue from implementation and customization services, in line with our multi-year strategic shift from a license-based and one-time services business model to a cloud subscription business model. Our cloud subscription offerings generally require less implementation and customization services. - Decrease in one-time analytics revenue of $0.8 million as analytics are generally integrated in our cloud solutions Cost of one-time services and other decreased by $3.3 million, or 22.9%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021, driven primarily by the following: - Decrease in compensation costs of $2.7 million largely due to a continued shift in resources historically supporting one-time services and other towards recurring revenue One-time services and other gross margin increased by 26.9% during the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021, primarily due to the significant reductions in compensation costs discussed above. 28 First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Operating Expenses Sales, marketing and customer success ($M) Research and development ($M) General and administrative ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue Sales, marketing and customer success Sales, marketing and customer success expense includes compensation costs, variable sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs, variable reseller commissions and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We see a large market opportunity in the long-term and will continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness. We have also implemented software tools to enhance our digital footprint and drive lead generation. The enhancements we are making in our go-to-market approach are expected to significantly reduce our average customer acquisition cost as well as the related payback period while increasing sales velocity. Sales, marketing and customer success expense increased by $6.4 million, or 13.2%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021, primarily driven by the following: + Increase in compensation costs of $3.7 million primarily related to increased employee headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI + Increase in advertising costs of $2.1 million primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI Research and development Research and development expense includes compensation costs for engineering and product management personnel, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new solutions or upgrading and enhancing existing solutions that do not qualify for capitalization, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We continue to make investments to delight our customers with innovative cloud solutions. Research and development expenses increased by $10.8 million or 36.9%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021, primarily driven by the following: + Increase in compensation costs of $8.4 million primarily related to increased employee headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI, and to a lesser extent, our increased hiring of engineers + Increase in third-party contractor costs of $5.5 million, primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI and, to a lesser extent, an increase in our use of third-party software developers + Increase in overhead allocation costs of $1.0 million primarily related to increased headcount discussed above - Increase in development costs of $4.7 million that were required to be capitalized under GAAP, of which $3.5 million was attributable to EVERFI software and content Not included in research and development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 were $13.8 million and $9.1 million, respectively, of qualifying costs associated with software and content development activities First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) that are required to be capitalized under GAAP, such as those for our cloud solutions, as well as development costs associated with acquired companies. Qualifying capitalized development costs associated with our cloud solutions are subsequently amortized to cost of subscriptions revenue over the related assets' estimated useful life, which generally range from three to seven years. General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, third-party professional fees, insurance, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses. General and administrative expense increased by $13.2 million, or 43.1%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021, primarily driven by the following: + Increase in Security Incident-related expenses, net of insurance, of $7.2 million, consisting primarily of legal fees, as t otal costs related to the Security Incident that we expect will be recoverable exceeded the limit of our insurance coverage during the first quarter of 2022. + Increase in compensation costs of $4.6 million primarily related to increased employee headcount due to our acquisition of EVERFI + Increase in third-party contractor costs of $1.2 million + Increase in acquisition-related expenses and integration costs of $1.0 million due to our acquisition of EVERFI - Increase in allocated corporate IT costs of $1.8 million primarily related to investments in security tools. Depreciation, facilities and IT support costs are pooled and recorded to general and administrative expense and allocated to other lines of our statements of comprehensive income based on headcount. 30 First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Interest Expense Interest expense ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue The increase in interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021, was primarily due to the new borrowings used to finance our acquisition of EVERFI. We currently expect interest expense for the full year 2022 to be approximately $30 million to $33 million although our interest expense in connection with the variable rate portion of our outstanding debt could increase in a rising interest rate environment. See Note 9 to our condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information regarding our derivative instruments, which we use to manage our variable interest rate risk. Deferred Revenue The table below compares the components of deferred revenue from our consolidated balance sheets: (dollars in millions) March 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Change Deferred revenue (1) $ 355.7 $ 378.7 (6.1) % Less: Long-term portion 4.7 4.2 11.3 % Current portion (1) $ 351.0 $ 374.5 (6.3) % (1) The individual amounts for each year may not sum to deferred revenue or current portion of deferred revenue due to rounding. To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue. Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception, billed annually in advance, and non-cancelable. We have been for several years successfully shifting our legacy customer base away from annual renewals and moving them onto multi-year renewal contracts. We generally invoice our customers with recurring revenue contracts in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of each one-year period. The decrease in deferred revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily due to a seasonal decrease in customer contract renewals. Historically, due to the timing of customer budget cycles, we have an increase in customer contract renewals at or near the beginning of our third quarter. Generally, our lowest balance of deferred revenue during the year is at the end of our first quarter. First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 31 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Income Taxes Income tax (benefit) provision ($M) Percentages indicate effective income tax rates For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we have utilized the discrete effective tax rate method, as allowed by ASC 740-270-30-18, Income TaxesInterim Reporting , to calculate its interim income tax provision. The discrete method is applied when the application of the estimated annual effective tax rate is impractical because it is not possible to reliably estimate the annual effective tax rate. The discrete method treats the year-to-date period as if it was the annual period and determines the income tax expense or benefit on that basis. We believe that, at this time, the use of this discrete method is more appropriate than the annual effective tax rate method as our as our full-year forecasted pre-tax income, relative to our forecasted permanent differences, has the potential to distort our estimated annual effective tax rate. The decrease in our effective income tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2022 when compared to the same period in 2021 was primarily attributable to the impact of stock based compensation. The 2022 effective tax rate was negatively impacted by increased tax expense attributable to stock based compensation against pre-tax loss for the period. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The operating results analyzed below are presented on a non-GAAP basis. We use non-GAAP financial measures internally in analyzing our operational performance. Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, in evaluating our ongoing operational performance. While we believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information, non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies. The non-GAAP financial measures discussed below exclude the impact of certain transactions because we believe they are not directly related to our operating performance in any particular period, but are for our long-term benefit over multiple periods. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business. 32 First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Three months ended March 31, (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2022 2021 Change GAAP Revenue $ 257.1 $ 219.2 17.3 % GAAP gross profit $ 133.8 $ 115.8 15.5 % GAAP gross margin 52.0 % 52.8 % Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Stock-based compensation expense 4.1 5.4 (22.6) % Add: Amortization of intangibles from business combinations 12.5 9.1 36.8 % Subtotal (1) 16.6 14.5 14.9 % Non-GAAP gross profit (1) $ 150.4 $ 130.3 15.4 % Non-GAAP gross margin 58.5 % 59.4 % GAAP (loss) income from operations $ (6.0) $ 6.6 (190.0) % GAAP operating margin (2.3) % 3.0 % Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Stock-based compensation expense 27.9 30.0 (7.1) % Add: Amortization of intangibles from business combinations 13.3 9.7 37.4 % Add: Employee severance 1.0 (100.0) % Add: Acquisition-related integration costs 0.6 (0.1) (756.1) % Add: Acquisition-related expenses 0.3 0.1 383.1 % Add: Restructuring and other real estate activities 0.1 (0.1) (164.0) % Add: Security Incident-related costs, net of insurance (2) 7.2 100.0 % Subtotal (1) 49.4 40.5 21.9 % Non-GAAP income from operations (1) $ 43.4 $ 47.2 (8.0) % Non-GAAP operating margin 16.9 % 21.5 % GAAP (loss) income before provision for income taxes $ (12.5) $ 0.5 (2,495.6) % GAAP net loss $ (10.4) $ (0.2) 6,245.7 % Shares used in computing GAAP diluted (loss) earnings per share 51,199,717 47,363,197 8.1 % GAAP diluted (loss) earnings per share $ (0.20) $ 100.0 % Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: GAAP income tax (benefit) provision (2.1) 0.7 (399.7) % Add: Total non-GAAP adjustments affecting income from operations 49.4 40.5 21.9 % Non-GAAP income before provision for income taxes 36.9 41.0 (10.0) % Assumed non-GAAP income tax provision (3) 7.4 8.2 (10.0) % Non-GAAP net income (1) $ 29.5 $ 32.8 (10.0) % Shares used in computing non-GAAP diluted earnings per share 52,076,858 48,387,042 7.6 % Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share $ 0.57 $ 0.68 (16.2) % (1) The individual amounts for each year may not sum to non-GAAP gross profit, subtotal, non-GAAP income from operations or non-GAAP net income due to rounding. (2) Includes Security Incident-related costs incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2022 of $9.0 million, net of probable insurance recoveries during the same period of $1.8 million. Recorded expenses consisted primarily of payments to third-party service providers and consultants, including legal fees, as well as settlements of customer claims. Not included in this adjustment were costs associated with enhancements to our cybersecurity program. For full year 2022, we currently expect net cash outlays of approximately $25 million to $35 million for ongoing legal fees related to the Security Incident. In line with our policy, legal fees, are expensed as incurred. We have not recorded a liability for a loss contingency related to the Security Incident as of March 31, 2022 because we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss. (3) We apply a non-GAAP effective tax rate of 20.0% when calculating non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 33 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Non-GAAP organic revenue growth In addition, we use non-GAAP organic revenue growth, non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis and non-GAAP organic recurring revenue growth, in analyzing our operating performance. We believe that these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, for evaluating the periodic growth of our business on a consistent basis. Each of these measures of non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year. For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period. In addition, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures excludes prior period revenue associated with divested businesses. The exclusion of the prior period revenue is to present the results of the divested businesses within the results of the combined company for the same period of time in both the prior and current periods. We believe this presentation provides a more comparable representation of our current business organic revenue growth and revenue run-rate. (dollars in millions) Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 GAAP revenue $ 257.1 $ 219.2 GAAP revenue growth 17.3 % Add: Non-GAAP acquisition-related revenue (1) 25.2 Non-GAAP organic revenue (2) $ 257.1 $ 244.4 Non-GAAP organic revenue growth 5.2 % Non-GAAP organic revenue (2) $ 257.1 $ 244.4 Foreign currency impact on Non-GAAP organic revenue (3) 0.9 Non-GAAP organic revenue on constant currency basis (3) $ 258.0 $ 244.4 Non-GAAP organic revenue growth on constant currency basis 5.6 % GAAP recurring revenue $ 244.7 $ 206.8 GAAP recurring revenue growth 18.3 % Add: Non-GAAP acquisition-related revenue (1) 22.8 Non-GAAP organic recurring revenue $ 244.7 $ 229.5 Non-GAAP organic recurring revenue growth 6.6 % (1) Non-GAAP acquisition-related revenue excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue calculated in accordance with GAAP that is attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year. For companies acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, non-GAAP acquisition-related revenue reflects presentation of full-year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies, as if they were combined throughout the prior period. (2) Non-GAAP organic revenue for the prior year periods presented herein will not agree to non-GAAP organic revenue presented in the respective prior period quarterly financial information solely due to the manner in which non-GAAP organic revenue growth is calculated. (3) To determine non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis, revenues from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated to U.S. Dollars using the comparable prior period's quarterly weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. The primary foreign currencies creating the impact are the Australian Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar and EURO. 34 First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Rule of 40 Rule of 40 is defined as non-GAAP organic revenue growth plus non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA margin. Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA is defined as GAAP net income plus interest, net; income tax provision (benefit); depreciation; amortization of intangible assets from business combinations; amortization of software development costs; stock-based compensation; acquisition-related integration costs; acquisition-related expenses; employee severance; restructuring and other real estate activities; and Security Incident-related costs, net of insurance. Three months ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Change GAAP net loss $ (10.4) $ (0.2) 6,245.7 % Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Interest, net 7.5 5.0 50.7 % Add: GAAP income tax (benefit) provision (2.1) 0.7 (399.7) % Add: Depreciation 3.5 3.2 10.2 % Add: Amortization of intangibles from business combinations 13.3 9.7 37.4 % Add: Amortization of software development costs (1) 9.2 8.0 16.1 % Subtotal (2) 31.5 26.5 18.9 % Non-GAAP EBITDA (2) $ 21.1 $ 26.3 (19.9) % Non-GAAP EBITDA margin 8.2 % Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Stock-based compensation expense 27.9 30.0 (7.1) % Add: Employee severance 1.0 (100.0) % Add: Acquisition-related integration costs 0.6 (0.1) (756.1) % Add: Acquisition-related expenses 0.3 0.1 383.1 % Add: Restructuring and other real estate activities 0.1 (0.1) (164.0) % Add: Security Incident-related costs, net of insurance (3) 7.2 100.0 % Subtotal (2) 36.1 30.9 17.0 % Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA (2) $ 57.2 $ 57.2 % Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA margin 22.2 % Rule of 40 (4) 27.4 % Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA 57.2 57.2 % Foreign currency impact on Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA (5) 0.5 (0.5) (199.4) % Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA on constant currency basis (5) 57.7 56.7 1.8 % Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA margin on constant currency basis 22.4 % Rule of 40 on constant currency basis (6) 28.0 % (1) Includes amortization expense related to software development costs and amortization expense from capitalized cloud computing implementation costs. (2) The individual amounts for each year may not sum to subtotal, non-GAAP EBITDA or non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA due to rounding. (3) Includes Security Incident-related costs incurred, net of probable insurance recoveries. See additional details in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP operating income above. (4) Measured by non-GAAP organic revenue growth plus non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA margin. See Non-GAAP organic revenue growth table above. (5) To determine non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA on a constant currency basis, non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated to U.S. Dollars using the comparable prior period's quarterly weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. The primary foreign currencies creating the impact are the Australian Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar and EURO. (6) Measured by non-GAAP organic revenue growth on constant currency basis plus non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA margin on constant currency basis. First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 35 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Non-GAAP free cash flow and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow Non-GAAP free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures, including costs required to be capitalized for software development, and capital expenditures for property and equipment. Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures, including costs required to be capitalized for software development and capital expenditures for property and equipment, plus cash outflows, net of insurance, related to the Security Incident. We believe non-GAAP free cash flow and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow provides useful measures of the company's operating performance. Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow is not intended to represent and should not be viewed as the amount of residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. Three months ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Change GAAP net cash provided by operating activities $ 24.5 $ 30.1 (18.6) % Less: purchase of property and equipment (4.3) (3.5) 22.9 % Less: capitalized software development costs (12.7) (9.3) 36.3 % Non-GAAP free cash flow $ 7.6 $ 17.3 (56.4) % Add: Security Incident-related cash flows, net of insurance 0.8 1.4 (41.9) % Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow $ 8.4 $ 18.7 (55.3) % Seasonality Our revenues normally fluctuate as a result of certain seasonal variations in our business. Our first quarter has historically been the seasonal low for bookings, with the second and fourth quarters historically being seasonally higher, and our bookings tend to be back-end loaded within individual quarters given our quarterly quota plans. Transactional revenue is non-contractual and less predictable given the susceptibility to certain drivers such as timing and number of events and marketing campaigns, as well as fluctuations in donation volumes and tuition payments. Our transactional revenue has historically been at its lowest in the first quarter due to the timing of customer fundraising initiatives and events. We have historically experienced seasonal highs during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving campaigns and during the second quarter when a large number of events are held. Our revenue from professional services has historically been lower in the first quarter when many of those services commence and in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. As a result of these and other factors, our total revenue has historically been lower in the first quarter than in the remainder of our fiscal year, with the fourth quarter historically achieving the highest total revenue. Our expenses, other than transaction-based costs related to our payments services, do not vary significantly as a result of these factors, but do fluctuate on a quarterly basis due to varying timing of expenditures. Our cash flow from operations normally fluctuates quarterly due to the combination of the timing of customer contract renewals including renewals associated with customers of acquired companies, delivery of professional services and occurrence of customer events, as well as merit-based salary increases, among other factors. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of certain annual vendor contracts, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter. Due to the timing of customer contract renewals and student enrollments, many of which take place at or near the beginning of our third quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lower in our second quarter as compared to our third and fourth quarters. Partially, offsetting these favorable drivers of cash flow from operations in our third and fourth quarters are base salary merit increases, which occur in July. In addition, deferred revenues can vary on a seasonal basis due to the timing of customer contract renewals and student enrollments. Our cash flow from financing is negatively impacted in our first quarter when most of our equity awards vest, as we pay taxes on behalf of our employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards. These patterns may change as a result of the continued shift to online giving, growth in volume of transactions for which we process payments, or as a result of acquisitions, new market opportunities, new solution introductions, the COVID-19 pandemic or other factors. 36 First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information about our financial position: (dollars in millions) March 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Change Cash and cash equivalents $ 33.8 $ 55.1 (38.7) % Property and equipment, net 112.7 111.4 1.1 % Software development costs, net 126.8 121.4 4.4 % Total carrying value of debt 981.2 956.2 2.6 % Working capital (251.8) (258.7) 2.6 % The following table presents selected financial information about our cash flows: Three months ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Change Net cash provided by operating activities $ 24.5 $ 30.1 (18.6) % Net cash used in investing activities (36.9) (12.8) 189.2 % Net cash used in financing activities (325.4) (379.6) (14.3) % Our principal sources of liquidity are our operating cash flow, funds available under the 2020 Credit Facility and cash on hand. Our operating cash flow depends on continued customer renewal of our subscription and maintenance arrangements, market acceptance of our solutions and services and our customers' ability to pay. Based on current estimates of revenue and expenses, we believe that the currently available sources of funds and anticipated cash flows from operations will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to finance our operations, fund anticipated capital expenditures and meet our debt obligations. We also believe that we will be able to continue to meet our long-term cash requirements due to our anticipated cash flow from operations, solid financial position and ability to access capital from financial markets. To the extent we undertake future material acquisitions or, investments or unanticipated capital or operating expenditures, including in connection with the Security Incident, we may require additional capital. In that context, we regularly evaluate opportunities to enhance our capital structure, including through potential debt or equity issuances. As a well-known seasoned issuer, we filed an automatic shelf registration statement for an undetermined amount of debt and equity securities with the SEC on January 14, 2022. Under this universal shelf registration statement we may offer and sell, from time to time, debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units. Subject to certain conditions, this registration statement will be effective through January 13, 2024. At March 31, 2022, our total cash and cash equivalents balance included approximately $18.4 million of cash that was held by operations outside the U.S. While these funds may not be needed to fund our U.S. operations for at least the next twelve months, if we need these funds, we may be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate the funds. We currently do not intend nor anticipate a need to repatriate our cash held outside the U.S. Operating Cash Flow Our cash flows from operations are derived principally from: (i) our earnings from on-going operations prior to non-cash expenses such as depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, amortization of deferred financing costs and debt discount and adjustments to our provision for credit losses and sales returns; and (ii) changes in our working capital. First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 37 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Working capital changes are composed of changes in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and deferred revenue. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $5.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021, primarily due to a $13.8 million decrease in net income adjusted for non-cash expenses and a $8.2 million increase in cash flow from operations associated with working capital. The increase in cash flow from operations associated with working capital during the three months ended March 31, 2022 , when compared to the same period in 2021, was primarily due to: fluctuations in the timing of vendor payments; and an increase in taxes payable; partially offset by payment of assumed EVERFI accrued bonuses and other payroll-related liabilities during the first quarter of 2022. Security Incident update As discussed in Note 10 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report, t otal costs related to the Security Incident that we expect will be recoverable exceeded the limit of our insurance coverage during the first quarter of 2022 . Accordingly, we expect that the Security Incident will continue to negatively impact our GAAP profitability and GAAP cash flow for the foreseeable future (see discussion regarding our non-GAAP financial measures beginning on page 32 ). For full year 2022, we currently expect net cash outlays of approximately $25 million to $35 million for ongoing legal fees related to the Security Incident. In line with our policy, legal fees, are expensed as incurred. We have not recorded a liability for a loss contingency related to the Security Incident as of March 31, 2022 because we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss. Investing Cash Flow Net cash used in investing activities of $36.9 million increased by $24.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we used $20.0 million for our acquisition of EVERFI comprised of (i) $17.4 million that had not been paid by EVERFI to its former option holders as of December 31, 2021, solely due to the timing of the acquisition on the last day of 2021; and (ii) $2.6 million that was paid to a number of EVERFI's selling shareholders after determining they would be paid in cash, rather than shares of our common stock. We used $12.7 million for software development costs, which was up $3.4 million from cash spent during the same period in 2021, primarily due to the inclusion of EVERFI's software and content development activities. We also spent $4.3 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the three months ended March 31, 2022, which was a decrease of $0.8 million when compared to the same period in 2021. Financing Cash Flow During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we had a net increase in borrowings of $25.6 million. We paid $34.7 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement of equity awards during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $18.4 million during the same period in 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to the timing of our annual short-term incentive (bonus) awards vesting during the first quarter of 2022, while similar awards vested during the second quarter of 2021. The amount of taxes paid by us on behalf of employees related to the settlement of equity awards varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting, as well as the market price for shares of our common stock at the time of settlement. Most of our equity awards currently vest in our first quarter. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash flow from financing activities associated with changes in restricted cash due to customers decreased $315.3 million, compared to a decrease of $353.6 million during the same period in 2021. This line in the statement of cash flows represents the change in the amount of restricted cash held and payable by us to customers from one period to the next. 38 First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Stock repurchase program In December 2021, our Board of Directors reauthorized and replenished our stock repurchase program that authorizes us to purchase up to $250.0 million of our outstanding shares of common stock. The program does not have an expiration date. Under the stock repurchase program, we are authorized to repurchase shares from time to time in accordance with applicable laws both on the open market, including under trading plans established pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and in privately negotiated transactions. The timing and amount of repurchases depends on several factors, including market and business conditions, the trading price of our common stock and the nature of other investment opportunities. The repurchase program may be limited, suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we did not purchase any shares. The remaining amount available to purchase stock under the stock repurchase program was $250.0 million as of March 31, 2022. 2020 Credit Facility Historically, we have drawn on our credit facility from time to time to help us meet financial needs, primarily due to the seasonality of our cash flows from operations and financing for business acquisitions. At March 31, 2022, our available borrowing capacity under the 2020 Credit Facility was $209.7 million. The 2020 Credit Facility matures in October 2025. At March 31, 2022, the carrying amount of our debt under the 2020 Credit Facility was $922.0 million. Our average daily borrowings during the three months ended March 31, 2022 were $909.4 million. The following is a summary of the financial covenants under the 2020 Credit Facility: Financial covenant Requirement Ratio as of March 31, 2022 Net leverage ratio (1) 4.25 to 1.00 3.57 to 1.00 Interest coverage ratio 2.50 to 1.00 14.59 to 1.00 (1) Under the terms of the 2020 Credit Facility, the Net Leverage Ratio requirement may be increased by up to 0.50 provided we satisfy certain requirements, including a permitted business acquisition, and provided that the maximum Net Leverage Ratio shall not exceed 4.25 to 1.00. Under the 2020 Credit Facility, we also have restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends and our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock. In order to pay any cash dividends and/or repurchase shares of stock: (i) no default or event of default shall have occurred and be continuing under the 2020 Credit Facility, and (ii) our pro forma net leverage ratio, as set forth in the 2020 Credit Facility, must be 0.25 less than the net leverage ratio requirement at the time of dividend declaration or share repurchase. At March 31, 2022, we were in compliance with our debt covenants under the 2020 Credit Facility. See Note 8 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report for additional information regarding the 2020 Credit Facility. Commitments and Contingencies Payments due by period (in millions) Less than 1 year More than 1 year Total (1) Recorded contractual obligations: Debt $ 18.1 $ 967.5 $ 985.7 Operating leases 11.4 60.9 72.3 Unrecorded contractual obligations: Purchase obligations 20.6 11.1 31.7 Interest payments on debt 30.8 101.1 131.9 Total contractual obligations (1) $ 80.9 $ 1,140.7 $ 1,221.5 (1) The individual amounts may not sum to the total due to rounding. First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 39 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Debt As of March 31, 2022, we had total remaining principal payments of $985.7 million. These payments represent principal payments only, under the following assumptions: (i) that the amounts outstanding under the 2020 Credit Facility, our real estate loans and our other debt at March 31, 2022 will remain outstanding until maturity, with minimum payments occurring as currently scheduled, and (ii) that there are no assumed future borrowings on the 2020 Revolving Facility for the purposes of determining minimum commitment amounts. See Note 8 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information. Interest payments on debt In addition to principal payments, as of March 31, 2022, we expect to pay interest expense over the life of our debt obligations of approximately $131.9 million. These payments represent our estimated future interest payments on debt using our debt balances and the related weighted average effective interest rates as of March 31, 2022, which includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements. The actual interest expense recognized in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income will depend on the amount of debt, the length of time the debt is outstanding and the interest rate, which could be different from our assumptions on our remaining principal payments described above. Operating leases As of March 31, 2022, we had remaining operating lease payments of $72.3 million. These payments have not been reduced by sublease income, incentive payments, reimbursement of leasehold improvements or the amount representing imputed interest of $12.6 million. Our operating leases are generally for corporate offices, subleased offices and certain equipment and furnit ure. Given our remote-first workforce strategy and real estate footprint optimization efforts, as discussed above, we do not anticipate entering any new, material operating leases for offices for the foreseeable future. See Note 10 to our unaud ited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information. Purchase obligations As of March 31, 2022, we had remaining purchase obligations of $31.7 million. These purchase obligations are for third-party technology used in our solutions and for other services we purchase as part of our normal operations. In certain cases, these arrangements require a minimum annual purchase commitment by us. Our purchase obligations are not recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2022, as we had not received the related services. See Note 10 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information. The total liability for uncertain tax positions as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, was $3.8 million and $3.7 million , respectively. Our accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was insignificant as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. 40 First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Approximately 17% of our total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was generated from operations outside the U.S. We do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly inflationary. Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, changes in the exchange rate between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of our subsidiaries financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. The accumulated currency translation adjustment, recorded within accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of stockholders equity, was a loss of $0.9 million as of March 31, 2022 and a gain of $1.3 million as of December 31, 2021. The vast majority of our contracts are entered into by our U.S. or U.K. entities. The contracts entered into by the U.S. entity are almost always denominated in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars, and contracts entered into by our U.K., Australian and Irish subsidiaries are generally denominated in British Pounds, Australian dollars and Euros, respectively. Historically, as the U.S. dollar weakened, foreign currency translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Conversely, as the U.S. dollar strengthened, foreign currency translation resulted in a decrease in our revenue and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, foreign translation resulted in decreases in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Though we have exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily those between the U.S. dollar and both the British Pound and Canadian dollar, the impact has generally not been material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates reduced our total revenue and our income from operations by $0.9 million and $0.2 million, respectively. We will continue monitoring such exposure and take action as appropriate. To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. These impacts are non-GAAP financial information and are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to those disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of the impact that recently issued accounting pronouncements are expected to have on our financial position and results of operations when adopted in the future, see Note 2 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report. First Quarter 2022 Form 10-Q 41 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited)