ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis presents financial information denominated in millions of dollars which can lead to differences from rounding when compared to similar information contained in the unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes which are primarily denominated in thousands of dollars. Executive Summary We are the leading software provider exclusively dedicated to powering social impact. Serving the nonprofit and education sectors, companies committed to social responsibility and individual change makers, our essential software is built to accelerate impact in fundraising, nonprofit financial management, digital giving, grantmaking, corporate social responsibility and education management. A remote-first company, we have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom, supporting users in 100+ countries. Our revenue is primarily generated from the following sources: (i) charging for the use of our software solutions in cloud and hosted environments; (ii) providing payment and transactional services; (iii) providing software maintenance and support services; (iv) providing Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content; and (v) providing professional services, including implementation, consulting, training, analytic and other services. Update on Five Key Operational Initiatives 1 Product Innovation 2 Bookings Growth and Acceleration 3 Transactional Revenue Optimization 4 Modernized Approach to Pricing and Multi-Year Customer Contracts 5 Keen Attention to Cost Management 1.Product Innovation We support our customers by replacing their aging, mission-critical systems of record and adding advanced digital services. We continuously seek ways to add substantial value for our customers and their constituents by investing in both organic innovation and ecosystem enablement through partnerships and acquisitions. These new capabilities and partnerships strengthen our offers and create new opportunities for our customers to deliver on their missions. For example, with the availability of SKY API endpoints for Blackbaud CRM and Blackbaud Altru, we are enabling customers to leverage applications in the Blackbaud Marketplace to integrate complementary point solutions with our partners. We have expanded strategic partnerships to unlock even more value for our customers with partners like Almabase and SwipeTrack's XTrulink. We recently announced an expanded partnership with Almabase to provide a modern solution for advancement teams to unlock higher education and K-12 school alumni engagement and better fundraising by creating integrations that enable secure movement of constituent, gift and event data between systems, without friction. Additionally, we have partnered with SwipeTrack Solutions to create an integration between Blackbaud Altru and Blackbaud Merchant Services to modernize the patron digital experience and back office operations at arts and cultural organizations. We also recently announced a new feature for general availability with Blackbaud TeamRaiser, Good Move. Good Move leverages Kilter, which we acquired last year, and helps charitable organizations raise more with mobile-first, gamified activity tracking and peer-to-peer fundraising. 22 First Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) 2.Bookings Growth and Acceleration We drove strong bookings performance in the first quarter, up significantly versus last year, led by our corporate sector (YourCause and EVERFI solutions) which more than doubled its bookings over the first quarter of 2022. We signed several notable large enterprise contracts during the first quarter, which speaks to the resilience of the end markets we serve and the focus we have placed on driving further improvements in sales productivity. Productivity per sales representative (defined as new sales bookings for the period divided by the number of sales representatives) has improved over 30% versus last year. There can be volatility quarter-to-quarter on bookings. However, the strong start in the first quarter with the most in-year revenue impact positions us well. 3.Transactional Revenue Optimization and Expansion Transactional revenue, which is about one-third of total revenue, has proven to be resilient so far in 2023 following the lower average donation sizes we experienced during the fourth quarter of 2022. The rate changes that we announced on Blackbaud Merchant Services in the U.S. in late 2022 began to take effect during the first quarter. Our Blackbaud Tuition Management and JustGiving platforms continue to perform well against plan. And as we look ahead, our teams are hard at work to drive innovation across our payments solutions that are a win-win for both our customers and Blackbaud. We have already introduced our two fee cover models, and we are also looking at ways to optimize our payments solutions to drive a better donor experience. 4.Modernized Approach to Pricing and Multi-Year Contracts We deeply value the relationships we have with our customers, many of whom have been with us for decades. Our solutions add considerable value for our customers and raise billions of dollars annually to fuel social impact, and we continue to innovate on our suite of products to generate incremental value. Last summer, we put in place an updated pricing policy primarily for our social sector customers that directly reflects the value we provide to them, is in-line with the broader market and reflects the inflationary pressures that all businesses are facing. In November 2022, we started notifying customers with a March 2023 contract renewal that we would be making two important contract changes. First, we are offering 3-year contract renewal terms as our standard, replacing one-year renewal terms. This process was already being implemented outside of the pricing changes. Second, we are implementing a more significant rate increase on the 1-year renewal option versus the 3-year renewal option. And third, the 3-year renewal option includes annual rate increases that will compound. Our 3-year renewal options did not historically include annual compounding rate increases. Through April 2023, we have renewed over 25% of the customers that are up for renewal in our 2023 cohort. The close day-to-day management of renewals, the mix of 3-year and 1-year contracts, and the impact of pricing are progressing very well, and we expect more impact from the compounding effect of these rate increases over time as we layer in future year contract renewals and annual rate increases. For example, over 50% of our planned 2023 revenue will renew in a little over 3 years and approximately 35% of that renewable base is expected to renew this year. These contracts are renewing every day and create revenue growth that we expect to accelerate with each successive quarter this year. We expect that to lead to an even greater impact in 2024, 2025 and beyond as we begin to see the full-year impact of the rate increases compound annually. Approximately 30% of the renewable base is up for renewal in 2024 and more than 20% in 2025. The adoption of 3-year renewals as a standard are expected to have an added benefit of higher retention which provides greater revenue assurance and predictability. Looking even further ahead, the cycle starts fresh in 2026 as the 2023 signed contracts will begin to renew. We expect that this will be a sustainable and meaningful revenue growth stream for us. 5.Keen Attention to Cost Management We closed four legacy data centers during 2022, and we plan to close more this year. We renegotiated key vendor contracts including Microsoft Azure and AWS and made the difficult decision to further reduce our staff in the first quarter. Because we have organized to achieve much better scale efficiencies, we now have reduced our headcount by approximately 14% since the third quarter of 2022. Our goal is to run the business at about this headcount level for the foreseeable future, such that our revenue growth will better drive margin acceleration. First Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 23 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Financial Summary Total revenue ($M) Loss from operations ($M) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Total revenue increased by $4.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, driven largely by the following: + Growth in recurring revenue primarily related to: increase in transactional recurring revenue of $5.0 million primarily due to increases in volume for our Blackbaud Tuition Management and JustGiving solutions and positive results related to a pricing initiative we implemented at the beginning of 2023; the increase in transactional recurring revenue was partially offset by a decrease related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $1.7 million, respectively increase in contractual recurring revenue of $3.1 million related to the performance of our cloud solutions; partially offset by a decrease in maintenance revenue as customers migrate to our cloud solutions and a decrease related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.8 million - Decreases in one-time service and other revenue primarily related to: decrease in one-time consulting revenue due primarily due to less revenue from implementation and customization services, in line with our multi-year strategic shift from a license-based and one-time services business model to a cloud subscription business model. Our cloud subscription offerings generally require less implementation and customization services decreases in one-time analytics revenue as analytics are generally integrated in our cloud solutions For additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results, see Foreign Currency Exchange Rates below on page 41. We have a number of multi-year pricing initiatives underway, some to bring our pricing in line with the market while others are model changes that are expected to drive greater revenue for both us and our customers. As a result, we expect to see an acceleration in growth in the second half of 2023 when compared to the first half of the year as we begin to see the full-year effect of some of these pricing initiatives. We expect that the one-time services and other revenue will continue to significantly decrease during 2023 compared to 2022 driven by our continued migration to the cloud in our core business. 24 First Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Income from operations decreased by $4.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, driven largely by the following: - Increase in Security Incident-related expenses of $10.6 million. See "Security Incident update" below. - Increase in stock-based compensation expense of $2.1 million primarily due to 2022 performance-based equity award adjustments, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and first quarter of 2023 - Increase in transaction-based costs of $2.1 million related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments and, to a lesser extent, increases in vendor rates - Increase in third-party software costs of $1.9 million primarily related to a higher number of licenses needed and also price increases - Net decrease of $0.9 million due to an increase in amortization of capitalized software and content development costs, partially offset by an increase in software and content development costs that were required to be capitalized under the internal-use software guidance + Decrease in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $7.7 million, partially offset by a corresponding increase in severance costs of $4.3 million due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above + Increase in total revenue, as described above + Decrease in hosting and data center costs of $2.1 million as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security; currently, we expect our cloud infrastructure migration efforts and increased level of cybersecurity investments to continue for the foreseeable future + Decrease in third-party contractor costs of $1.9 million primarily due to a decrease in our use of third-party software developers + Decrease in advertising costs of $0.9 million We are continuing to make critical investments in the business in areas such as digital marketing, innovation, cybersecurity, customer success and our continued shift of cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers. Our profitability during the first quarter reflects some of these incremental investments. In 2023, we expect our financial performance to improve with each successive quarter, starting with meaningful improvement in the second quarter as our pricing and cost initiatives take hold. We continuously seek opportunities to optimize our portfolio of solutions to focus time and resources on innovation that will have the greatest impact for our customers and the markets we serve, and drive the highest return on investment. To that end, we will continue to simplify and rationalize our portfolio through product sunsets and divestitures of non-core businesses and technologies. Gross dollar retention A key factor to our overall success is the renewal and expansion of our existing subscription agreements with our customers. Management uses gross dollar retention in analyzing our success at delighting our customers with innovative and cloud solutions. Gross dollar retention is defined as contracted annual recurring revenue ("CARR") divided by beginning CARR with a measurement period of twelve months. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2023, our gross dollar retention was approximately 90%. This gross dollar retention rate is relatively unchanged from our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2022. We are continually investing in innovation, which we believe will increase gross dollar retention over the long-term. First Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 25 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Although some customer attrition is normal, our new contract pricing and renewal model (as described above on page 24) does not appear to have impacted customer attrition to date. Balance sheet and cash flow At March 31, 2023, our cash and cash equivalents were $24.1 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2020 Credit Facility was $817.1 million. Our net leverage ratio was 2.99 to 1.00. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we generated $21.8 million in cash from operations, had a net increase in borrowings of $17.2 million, and had aggregate cash outlays of $15.3 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software and content development costs. Security Incident update As discussed in Note 8 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report, total costs related to the Security Incident exceeded the limit of our insurance coverage in the first quarter of 2022. Accordingly, the Security Incident has negatively impacted, and we expect it to continue for the foreseeable future to negatively impact, our GAAP profitability and GAAP cash flow (see discussion regarding non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow on page 36). For the three months ended March 31, 2023, we incurred net pre-tax expense of $17.8 million related to the Security Incident, which included $7.6 million for ongoing legal fees and an additional accrual for loss contingencies of $10.2 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we had net cash outlays of $9.2 million related to the Security Incident, which included ongoing legal fees and the $3.0 million civil penalty paid related to the SEC settlement (as discussed in Note 8). In line with our policy, legal fees are expensed as incurred. For full year 2023, we currently expect net pre-tax expense of approximately $20.0 million to $30.0 million and net cash outlays of approximately $25.0 million to $35.0 million for ongoing legal fees related to the Security Incident. Not included in these ranges are our previous settlements or current accruals for loss contingencies related to the matters discussed below. As of March 31, 2023, we have recorded approximately $30.2 million in aggregate liabilities for loss contingencies based primarily on recent negotiations with certain governmental agencies related to the Security Incident that we believe we can reasonably estimate in accordance with our loss contingency procedures described in Note 8. It is reasonably possible that our estimated or actual losses may change in the near term for those matters and be materially in excess of the amounts accrued, but we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible additional loss. There are other Security Incident-related matters, including customer claims, customer constituent class actions and governmental investigations, for which we have not recorded a liability for a loss contingency as of March 31, 2023 because we are unable at this time to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss. Each of these matters could, separately or in the aggregate, result in an adverse judgment, settlement, fine, penalty or other resolution, the amount, scope and timing of which we are currently unable to predict, but could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 26 First Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Results of Operations Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenue and Cost of Revenue Recurring Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud solutions, Impact-as-a-Service digital educational content, hosting services, payment services, online training programs and subscription-based analytic services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, retained and managed services contracts that we expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions. Cost of recurring revenue is primarily comprised of compensation costs for customer support and production IT personnel, hosting and data center costs, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty and data expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations, amortization of software development costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services including remittances of amounts due to third-parties and other costs incurred in providing support and recurring services to our customers. Our customers continue to prefer cloud subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services. Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception. We have been for several years successfully shifting our legacy customer base away from annual renewals and moving them onto multi-year renewal contracts. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth. Recurring revenue increased by $8.1 million, or 3.3%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, driven primarily by the following: + Increase in transactional recurring revenue of $5.0 million primarily due to increases in volume for our Blackbaud Tuition Management and JustGiving solutions and positive results related to a pricing initiative we implemented at the beginning of 2023; the increase in transactional recurring revenue was partially offset by a decrease related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $1.7 million + Increase in contractual recurring revenue of $3.1 million related to the performance of our cloud solutions; partially offset by a decrease in maintenance revenue as customers migrate to our cloud solutions; also offsetting the increase in contractual recurring revenue was a decrease related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.8 million First Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) For additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results, see Foreign Currency Exchange Rates below on page 41. Cost of recurring revenue increased by $2.3 million, or 2.1%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, driven primarily by the following: + Increase in transaction-based costs of $2.1 million related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments and, to a lesser extent, increases in vendor rates + Increase in third-party software costs of $1.6 million primarily related to a higher number of licenses needed and also price increases + Increase in amortization of software development costs of $1.3 million due to our continued investments in the innovation and security of our solutions + Increase in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $0.6 million primarily due to our acquisition of EVERFI - Decrease in compensation costs of $2.1 million primarily related to our targeted workforce reductions during the fourth quarter of 2022 and the first quarter of 2023, partially offset by a corresponding increase in severance costs of $0.4 million - Decrease in hosting and data center costs of $2.1 million as we continue to migrate our cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers and make investments in security; currently, we expect our cloud infrastructure migration efforts and increased level of cybersecurity investments to continue for the foreseeable future Recurring gross margin increased by 50 basis points for the three months ended March 31, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, primarily due to the increase in recurring revenue outpacing the increase in cost of recurring revenue. One-time services and other Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, fees for retained and managed services contracts that we do not expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts, revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, and third-party software referral fees. Cost of one-time services and other is primarily comprised of compensation costs for professional services and onsite training personnel, other costs incurred in providing onsite customer training, third-party contractor expenses, data expense incurred to perform one-time analytic services, third-party software royalties, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations. 28 First Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) One-time services and other revenue decreased by $3.5 million, or 27.7%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023, when compared to the same periods in 2022, driven primarily by the following: - Decrease in one-time consulting revenue of $3.0 million primarily due to less revenue from implementation and customization services, in line with our multi-year strategic shift from a license-based and one-time services business model to a cloud subscription business model. Our cloud subscription offerings generally require less implementation and customization services. - Decrease in one-time analytics revenue of $0.8 million as analytics are generally integrated in our cloud solutions Cost of one-time services and other decreased by $2.6 million, or 23.0%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, driven primarily by the following: - Decrease in compensation costs of $2.5 million primarily related to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above and a continued shift in resources historically supporting one-time services and other towards recurring revenue One-time services and other gross margin decreased by 580 basis points during the three months ended March 31, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, primarily due to the decrease of one-time services and other revenue outpacing the decrease compensation costs discussed above. Operating Expenses Sales, marketing and customer success ($M) Research and development ($M) General and administrative ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue Sales, marketing and customer success Sales, marketing and customer success expense includes compensation costs, variable sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs, variable reseller commissions and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We see a large market opportunity in the long-term and will continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness. We have also implemented software tools to enhance our digital footprint and drive lead generation. The enhancements we are making in our go-to-market approach are expected to significantly reduce our average customer acquisition cost per customer as well as the related payback period while increasing sales velocity. Sales, marketing and customer success expense decreased by $0.8 million, or 1.5%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, primarily driven by the following: - Decrease in advertising costs of $0.9 million + Net increase in the following costs primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above: Increase in severance costs of $1.6 million; Decrease in compensation costs of $0.9 million; and Decrease in commissions expense of $0.6 million First Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Research and development Research and development expense includes compensation costs for engineering and product management personnel, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new solutions or upgrading and enhancing existing solutions that do not qualify for capitalization, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We continue to make investments to delight our customers with innovative and secure cloud solutions. Research and development expenses increased by $0.6 million or 1.6%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, primarily driven by the following: + Increase in severance costs of $1.1 million primarily due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above + Increase in stock-based compensation of $1.1 million primarily due to new grants related to 2022 performance-based equity award adjustments, partially offset by the targeted workforce reductions discussed above - Decrease in third-party contractor costs of $1.1 million primarily due to a decrease in our use of third-party software developers Not included in research and development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 were $14.2 million and $13.8 million, respectively, of qualifying costs associated with software and content development activities that are required to be capitalized under GAAP, such as those for our cloud solutions, as well as development costs associated with acquired companies. Qualifying capitalized development costs associated with our cloud solutions are subsequently amortized to cost of subscriptions revenue over the related assets' estimated useful life, which generally range from three to seven years. General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, third-party professional fees, insurance, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses. General and administrative expense increased by $9.1 million, or 20.7%, during the three months ended March 31, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, primarily driven by the following: + Increase in Security Incident-related expenses of $10.6 million. See "Security Incident update" on page 26 + Increase in severance costs of $0.8 million, partially offset by a corresponding decrease in compensation costs of $0.6 million due to our targeted workforce reductions discussed above - Decrease in third-party contractor costs of $0.6 million 30 First Quarter 2023 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Interest Expense Interest expense ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue The increase in interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, was primarily due to an increase in our weighted average effective interest rates. We currently expect interest expense for the full year 2023 to be approximately $37 million to $41 million although our interest expense in connection with the variable rate portion of our outstanding debt could increase in a rising interest rate environment. See Note 7 to our condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information regarding our derivative instruments, which we use to manage our variable interest rate risk, and