Managements discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations Seasonality in Item 7 in this report. Financial Information about Geographic Areas For information about revenues by geographic region and long-lived assets by geographic region, please see Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements in this report. For a description of risks attendant to our non-U.S. operations, please see Risk factors - If we do not successfully address the risks inherent in the expansion of our international operations, our business could suffer in Item 1A in this report. 12 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Working Capital For a discussion of our working capital practices, see Managements discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations Liquidity and capital resources in Item 7 in this report. Available Information Our website address is www.blackbaud.com . We make available, free of charge through our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC, but other information on our website is not incorporated into this report. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains these reports at www.sec.gov . The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth information concerning our executive officers as of February 15, 2016: Name Age Title Michael P. Gianoni 55 President and Chief Executive Officer Anthony W. Boor 53 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Charles T. Cumbaa 63 Executive Vice President of Corporate and Product Strategy Kevin W. Mooney 57 Executive Vice President and President, General Markets Business Unit Brian E. Boruff 56 Executive Vice President and President, Enterprise Customer Business Unit John J. Mistretta 60 Executive Vice President of Human Resources Michael P. Gianoni joined us as President and Chief Executive Officer in January 2014. Prior to joining us, he served as Executive Vice President and Group President, Financial Institutions at Fiserv, Inc., a global technology provider serving the financial services industry, from January 2010 to December 2013. He joined Fiserv as President of its Investment Services division in December 2007. Mr. Gianoni was Executive Vice President and General Manager of CheckFree Investment Services, which provided investment management solutions to financial services organizations, from June 2006 until December 2007 when CheckFree was acquired by Fiserv. From May 1994 to November 2005, he served as Senior Vice President of DST Systems Inc., a global provider of technology-based service solutions. Mr. Gianoni is a member of the Board of Directors of Teradata Corporation, a publicly traded global big data analytics and marketing applications company. He holds an AS in electrical engineering from Waterbury State Technical College, a BS with a business concentration from Charter Oak State College, and an MBA and an honorary Doctorate, from the University of New Haven. Anthony W. Boor joined us as Executive Vice President (which position was previously designated as Senior Vice President) and Chief Financial Officer in November 2011 and served as our interim President and Chief Executive Officer from August 2013 to January 2014. Prior to joining us, he served as an executive with Brightpoint, Inc., a global provider of device lifecycle services to the wireless industry, beginning in 1999, most recently as its Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. He also served as the interim President of Europe, Middle East and Africa during Brightpoint's significant restructuring of that region. Mr. Boor served as Director of Business Operations for Brightpoint North America from August 1998 to July 1999. Prior to joining Brightpoint, Mr. Boor was employed in various financial positions with Macmillan Computer Publishing, Inc., a Viacom owned book publishing company specializing in computer hardware and software related topics, Day Dream Publishing, Inc., a publishing company specializing in calendars, posters and time management materials, Ernst & Young LLP, an accounting firm, Expo New Mexico, a state-owned fair and expo grounds and live pari-mutual horse racing venue, KPMG LLP, an accounting firm, and Ernst & Whinney LLP, an accounting firm. He holds a BS in Accounting from New Mexico State University. 2015 Form 10-K 13 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Charles T. Cumbaa has served as our Executive Vice President (which position was previously designated as Senior Vice President) of Corporate and Product Strategy since May 2012. He joined us in May 2001 and served as Senior Vice President of Products and Services until December 2009. He also served as our President, Enterprise Customer Business Unit from January 2010 to April 2012. Prior to joining us, Mr. Cumbaa was Executive Vice President with Intertech Information Management, a provider of document management solutions, from December 1998 until October 2000. From 1992 until 1998, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Cognitech, Inc., a software company he founded. From 1984 to 1992 he was Executive Vice President of Sales and Services at Sales Technologies, a sales force automation company. Prior to that, he was employed by McKinsey & Company, a consulting firm. Mr. Cumbaa holds a BA from Mississippi State University and an MBA from Harvard Business School. Kevin W. Mooney has served as our Executive Vice President (which position was previously designated as Senior Vice President) and President, General Markets Business Unit since January 2010. He joined us in July 2008 as our Chief Commercial Officer. Before joining Blackbaud, Mr. Mooney was a senior executive at Travelport GDS from August 2007 to May 2008. As Chief Commercial Officer of Travelport GDS, one of the world's largest providers of information services and transaction processing to the travel industry, Mr. Mooney was responsible for global sales, marketing, training, service and support activities. Prior to that he was Chief Financial Officer for Worldspan from March 2005 until it was acquired by Travelport in August 2007. Mr. Mooney has also held key executive positions in the telecommunications industry and he is a member of the Board of Directors of Level 3 Communications, Inc., a publicly traded global managed network services company. Mr. Mooney graduated from Seton Hall University and holds an MBA in Finance from Georgia State University. Brian E. Boruff joined us as our Executive Vice President and President, Enterprise Customer Business Unit in May 2015. Prior to joining us, Mr. Boruff was the Vice President of Products, Platforms and Solutions at Infosys, a global provider of consulting technology and next-generation services, from June 2013 until April 2015. From May 2011 until June 2013 he was a Managing Director of Accenture, a global management consulting and technology services company. From January 2009 until May 2011, Mr. Boruff was the Global Vice President of Cloud Computing and Emerging Technologies at CSC, a global provider of information technology services and solutions. Prior to that, Mr. Boruff spent 15 years at Microsoft, a platform and productivity company, from July 1993 until September 2008 where he held various domestic and international executive roles as well as client-facing software sales and services roles. Mr. Boruff holds a BA in Computer Science and Biochemistry from the University of Tennessee. John J. Mistretta joined us as our Executive Vice President (which position was previously designated as Senior Vice President) of Human Resources in August 2005. Prior to joining us, Mr. Mistretta was an Executive Vice President of Human Resources and Alternative Businesses at National Commerce Financial Corporation, a financial services company, from 1998 to 2005. Earlier in his career, Mr. Mistretta held various senior Human Resources positions over a thirteen-year period at the banking firm Citicorp. He also serves as a board member for YEScarolina, a local nonprofit dedicated to teaching youth the principles of entrepreneurship and free enterprise. Mr. Mistretta holds a MS in Counseling and a BA in Psychology from the State University of New York at Oswego. Item 1A. Risk factors Our business operations face a number of risks. These risks should be read and considered with other information provided in this report. Our failure to compete successfully could cause our revenue or market share to decline. Our market is fragmented, highly competitive and rapidly evolving and there are limited barriers to entry for some aspects of this market. We mainly face competition from four sources: Software developers offering specialized products designed to address specific needs of nonprofit organizations; Custom-developed products created either internally or outsourced to custom service providers; Providers of traditional, less automated fundraising services, such as services that support traditional direct mail or email campaigns, special events fundraising, telemarketing and personal solicitations; and Software developers offering general products not designed to address specific needs of organizations in the philanthropic community. 14 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. The companies we compete with and other potential competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources and generate greater revenue and better name recognition than we do. Also, a large diversified software enterprise could decide to enter the market directly, including through acquisitions. Competitive pressures can adversely impact our business by limiting the prices we can charge our customers and making the adoption and renewal of our solutions more difficult. Our competitors might also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with resellers and third-party consulting firms or other parties with whom we have had relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our solutions. These competitive pressures could cause our revenue and market share to decline. A substantial portion of our revenue is currently derived from Raiser's Edge, Raiser's Edge NXT, Luminate Online, Blackbaud CRM, Financial Edge and Financial Edge NXT, and a decline in sales or renewals of these or similar solutions and related services could harm our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of Raiser's Edge, Raiser's Edge NXT, Luminate Online, Blackbaud CRM, Financial Edge and Financial Edge NXT, and other solutions that help customers manage constituent relationships and related services, and we expect revenue from these solutions and related services to continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. If renewal rates for these solutions are lower than expected for any reason, our operating results would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we frequently sell these or similar solutions to new customers and then attempt to generate incremental revenue from the sale of additional solutions and services. If demand for Raiser's Edge, Raiser's Edge NXT, Luminate Online, Blackbaud CRM, Financial Edge, Financial Edge NXT or similar solutions declines significantly, our business would suffer. We encounter lengthy sales cycles, which could have an adverse effect on the amount, timing and predictability of our revenue and sales. Sales of our software solutions to our larger enterprise customers often require an extensive education and marketing effort. We could expend significant funds and management resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. Historically, our software solution sales cycle averages approximately two months for sales to existing customers and from six to nine months for sales to new customers. Our sales cycle for all of our solutions and services is subject to significant risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including: Our customers' budgetary constraints; The impact of the macroeconomic environment on our customers; and The timing and expiration of our customers' current arrangements for similar services. We encounter long and complex implementation cycles, particularly for our largest customers, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability and the timing and predictability of our revenue. The implementation of our solutions and services, particularly in our large CRM engagements, frequently involves complex configuration, business process reengineering and system interfaces and can extend for a year or more. Our Blackbaud CRM solution offerings are complex and we may experience unanticipated implementation challenges or complexities in these engagements. Further, these projects typically are heavily dependent on customer participation, communication and timely responsiveness throughout the implementation cycle. As the complexity of these engagements increases, our revenues and profitability could suffer from delays in project completion and having to perform unplanned incremental services at rates substantially below our normal hourly rates or make investments in the form of non-billable service hours or other concessions. In certain arrangements, our ability to recognize revenue may be delayed until acceptance of the implemented solution by the customer. If we are unsuccessful in implementing our solutions or if we experience delays, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and the timing and predictability of our revenue. 2015 Form 10-K 15 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Because a significant portion of our revenue is recognized ratably over the terms of the contract, downturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our revenue. We recognize our maintenance and subscriptions revenue monthly over the term of the customer agreement. Most of our maintenance arrangements are for a one year term. Our subscription arrangements are typically either for a one year term or a three year term. As a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is attributable to arrangements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in sales to new customers, renewals by existing customers or market acceptance of our solutions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenues in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenues and profitability in future quarters. If our customers do not renew their annual maintenance and support arrangements or subscriptions for our solutions or if they do not renew them on terms that are favorable to us, our business might suffer. Most of our maintenance arrangements are for a one-year term. Our subscription arrangements are typically either for a one year term or a three year term. As the end of the annual period approaches, we seek the renewal of the agreement with the customer. Historically, maintenance and subscriptions renewals have represented a significant portion of our total revenue. Because of this characteristic of our business, if our customers choose not to renew their maintenance and support arrangements or subscriptions with us on beneficial terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions and services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. We might not generate increased business from our current customers, which could limit our revenue in the future. Our ability to grow revenue is highly dependent on the success of our efforts to sell additional solutions and services to our existing customers. Many of our customers initially make a purchase of only one or a limited number of our solutions or only for a single department within their organization. These customers might choose not to expand their use of or make additional purchases of our solutions and services. If we fail to generate additional business from our current customers, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or even decrease. In addition, as we deploy new applications and features for our existing solutions or introduce new solutions and services, our current customers could choose not to purchase these new offerings. The offering of our solutions on a subscription basis and demand by our customers for these offerings are increasing. Our failure to manage this demand could lead to lower than expected revenues and profits. In recent years, much of our revenue growth was derived from increased cloud-based subscription offerings. This business model depends heavily on achieving economies of scale because the initial upfront investment is costly and the associated revenue is recognized on a ratable basis, such as our Raiser's Edge NXT and Financial Edge NXT solutions, which became generally available in 2015. If we fail to achieve appropriate economies of scale or if we fail to manage or anticipate demand for the subscription software pricing models, then we could encounter substantial capital expenditures, a reduction in profitability, a decrease in revenue growth and could become less competitive. The additional investments required to meet customer demand could increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. Defects, delays or interruptions in our cloud-based solutions and hosting services could diminish demand for these services and subject us to substantial liability. We currently utilize data center hosting facilities to provide cloud-based solutions to our subscription customers and hosting services to our on-premises license customers. Any damage to, or failure of, our data center systems generally could result in interruptions in service to our customers, notwithstanding any disaster recovery agreements that may currently be in place at these facilities. Because our cloud-based solutions and hosting service offerings are complex, and we have incorporated a variety of new computer hardware and software systems at our data centers, our services might have errors or defects that users identify after they begin using our services. This could result in unanticipated downtime for our customers and harm to our reputation and business. Internet-based services sometimes contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our web-based services and new errors might again be detected in the future. In addition, our customers might use our Internet-based offerings in unanticipated ways that cause a disruption in service for other customers attempting to access their data. 16 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Because our customers use these services for important aspects of their businesses, any defects, delays or disruptions in service or other performance problems with our services could hurt our reputation and damage our customers' businesses. If that occurs, customers could elect to cancel their service, delay or withhold payment to us, not purchase from us in the future or make claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. Any of these could harm our business and reputation. Material defects or errors in the software we use to deliver our services could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our services. The software applications underlying our services are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our software, and new errors in our existing software may be detected in the future. After the release of our software, defects or errors may also be identified from time to time by our internal team and our customers. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our software may be substantial and could harm our operating results. Furthermore, our customers may use our software together with solutions from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our solution development efforts, impact our reputation and cause significant customer relations problems. Our failure to obtain licenses for third-party technologies could harm our business. We expect to continue licensing technologies from third parties, including applications used in our research and development activities, technologies which are integrated into our solutions and solutions that we resell. We believe that the loss of any third-party technologies currently integrated into our solutions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our inability in the future to obtain any third-party licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could delay future solution development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed and integrated. This inability in turn could harm our business and operating results. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. The market for software and services for nonprofit, charitable giving and educational organizations might not grow and these organizations might not continue to adopt our solutions and services. Many nonprofit organizations have not traditionally used integrated and comprehensive software and services for their nonprofit-specific needs. We cannot be certain that the market for such solutions and services will continue to develop and grow or that nonprofit organizations will elect to adopt our solutions and services rather than continue to use traditional, less automated methods, attempt to develop software internally, rely upon legacy software systems, or use software solutions not specifically designed for the nonprofit market. Nonprofit organizations that have already invested substantial resources in other fundraising methods or other non-integrated software solutions might be reluctant to adopt our solutions and services to supplement or replace their existing systems or methods. In addition, the implementation of one or more of our core software solutions can involve significant time and capital commitments by our customers, which they may be unwilling or unable to make. If demand for and market acceptance of our solutions and services does not increase, we might not grow our business as we expect. If we are unable, or our customers believe we are unable, to detect and prevent unauthorized use of payment card information and safeguard confidential donor data, we could be subject to financial liability, our reputation could be harmed and customers may be reluctant to use our solutions and services. The rules of payment card associations in which we participate require that we comply with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard ("PCI DSS") in order to preserve security of payment card data. Under PCI DSS, we are required to adopt and implement internal controls over the use, storage and security of payment card data to help prevent card fraud. Conforming our solutions and services to PCI DSS or other payment services related regulations or requirements imposed by payment networks or our customers or payment processing partners is expensive and time-consuming. However, failure 2015 Form 10-K 17 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. to comply may subject us to fines, penalties, damages and civil liability, may impair the security of payment card data in our possession, and may harm our reputation and our business prospects, including by limiting our ability to process transactions. All of our solutions are currently certified as compliant with the Payment Application Data Security Standard, which is a subset of the requirements for PCI DSS. However, currently some of our solutions are not fully compliant with PCI DSS. If the security of our software is breached, we fail to securely collect, store and transmit customer information, or we fail to safeguard confidential donor data, we could be exposed to liability, litigation, penalties and remedial costs and our reputation and business could suffer. Fundamental to the use of our solutions is the secure collection, storage and transmission of confidential donor and end user data and transaction data, including in our payment processing business. Despite, the network and application security, internal control measures, and physical security procedures we employ to safeguard our systems, we may still be vulnerable to a security breach, intrusion, loss or theft of confidential donor data and transaction data, which may harm our business, reputation and future financial results. Despite our efforts to combat such threats, computer hackers may attempt to penetrate or bypass our data protection and other security measures and gain unauthorized access to our networks, systems and data or compromise the confidential data of our customers and their donors. Computer hackers may be able to develop and deploy computer viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that could attack our solutions and services, exploit potential security vulnerabilities of our solutions and services, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. Data may also be accessed or modified improperly as a result of employee or supplier error or malfeasance and third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing confidential and sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data, our customers data or our IT systems. Also, computers, including those that use our software, are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of or unauthorized access to data. These risks for us will increase as we continue to grow our cloud-based offerings and services, store and process increasingly large amounts of our customers confidential data, host or manage parts of our customers business in cloud-based IT environments and grow our payment processing business, especially in customer sectors involving particularly sensitive data such as health sciences, financial services and the government, or where personal information is transferred internationally. We also have an active acquisition program and have acquired a number of companies, solutions, services and technologies over the years. While we make significant efforts to address any IT security issues with respect to our acquisitions, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate these acquisitions within our business. A compromise of our data security that results in customer or donor personal or payment card data being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. We might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect further against security breaches or to rectify problems caused by any security breach, including notification under data privacy laws and regulations and expenses related to remediating our information security systems. Even though we carry cyber-technology insurance policies that may provide insurance coverage under certain circumstances, we might suffer losses as a result of a security breach that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. A security breach and any efforts we make to address such breach could also result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. Further, the existence of vulnerabilities, even if they do not result in a security breach, may harm client confidence and require substantial resources to address, and we may not be able to discover or remedy such security vulnerabilities before they are exploited, which may harm our business, reputation and future financial results. Privacy and data protection concerns, including evolving government regulation in the area of consumer data privacy or data protection, could adversely affect our business and operating results. The effectiveness of our software solutions relies on our customers' storage and use of data concerning their customers, including financial, personally identifying or other sensitive data. Our customers' collection and use of this data for donor profiling, data analytics or communications outreach might raise privacy and data protection concerns and negatively impact the demand for our solutions and services. For example, our custom modeling and analytical services, including ProspectPoint, WealthPoint and donorCentrics, rely heavily on processing and using of data we gather from customers 18 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. and various sources. Privacy and data protection laws could restrict or add regulatory and compliance processes to our ability to market and profit from those services. Governments in some jurisdictions have enacted or are considering enacting consumer data privacy or data protection legislation, including laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, transfer, processing and use of personal data. This legislation could reduce the demand for our software solutions if we fail to design or enhance our solutions to enable our customers to comply with the privacy and data protection measures required by the legislation. Moreover, we may be exposed to liability under existing or new consumer privacy or data protection legislation. For example, we must comply with applicable provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), and might be subject to similar provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related regulations. Even technical violations of these laws may result in penalties that are assessed for each non-compliant transaction. HIPAA (including the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and associated United States Department of Health and Human Services regulations) permits our customers in the healthcare industry to use certain limited information for fundraising purposes and to disclose that limited subset of protected health information to their service providers (referred to as "business associates" under HIPAA) for fundraising if certain requirements are met. Except as specifically permitted under HIPAA, customers in the healthcare industry (i) may not reveal additional healthcare information for fundraising purposes unless they have specific written permission from the patient, and (ii) must provide their patients with the ability to opt out of fundraising activities. Under HIPAA, business associates are required to protect the privacy and security of healthcare information received from a customer in the healthcare industry. We believe that we comply with those requirements where applicable. Further, we contractually require our healthcare industry customers to comply with their own obligations under HIPAA related to fundraising, but we do not monitor our customers for compliance as we believe monitoring is not legally required and would be cost prohibitive. The regulations and enforcement environment under HIPAA are continuing to evolve and could require additional compliance measures requiring further investment by us. If our customers or we were found to be subject to and in violation of any privacy or data protection laws or regulations, our business may be materially and adversely impacted and we and/or our customers would likely have to change our business practices. In addition, these laws and regulations could impose significant costs on our customers and us and make it more difficult for donors to make online donations. We are in the information technology business, and our solutions and services store, retrieve, transfer, manipulate and manage our customers information and data. The effectiveness of our software solutions relies on our customers storage and use of data concerning their donors, including financial, personally identifying and other sensitive data and our business uses similar systems that require us to store and use data with respect to our customers and personnel. Our collection and our customers collection and use of this data might raise privacy and data protection concerns and negatively impact our business or the demand for our solutions and services. If a breach of data security were to occur, or other violation of privacy or data protection laws and regulations were to be alleged, our business may be materially and adversely impacted and solutions may be perceived as less desirable, which would negatively affect our business and operating results. If we fail to respond to technological changes and successfully introduce new and improved solutions, our competitive position may be harmed and our business may suffer. The introduction of solutions encompassing new technologies can render existing solutions obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to enhance existing solutions and develop and introduce in a timely manner or acquire new solutions that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to develop or acquire on a timely and cost-effective basis new software solutions or enhancements to existing solutions or if such new solutions or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 2015 Form 10-K 19 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Because competition for highly qualified personnel is intense, we might not be able to attract and retain key personnel needed to support our planned growth. To meet our objectives successfully, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel with specialized skill sets. If we are unable to attract suitably qualified management, there could be a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, to execute our continuing growth plans, we need to increase the size and maintain the quality of our sales force, software development staff and our professional services organization. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, and we might not be successful in attracting and retaining them. The pool of qualified personnel with experience working with or selling to nonprofit, charitable giving and educational organizations is limited overall and specifically in Charleston, South Carolina, where our principal office is located. Our ability to maintain and expand our sales, solution development and professional services teams will depend on our ability to recruit, train and retain top quality people with advanced skills who understand sales to, and the specific needs of, nonprofit, charitable giving and educational organizations. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel, or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or reach productivity slower than anticipated, it would be more difficult for us to sell our solutions and services, we could experience a shortfall in revenue or earnings and not achieve our planned growth. Further, in the past, we have used equity incentive programs as part of our overall employee compensation agreements to both attract and retain personnel. A decline in our stock price could negatively impact the value of these equity incentive and related compensation programs as retention and recruiting tools. We may need to create new or additional equity incentive programs and/or compensation packages to remain competitive, which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders and/or adversely affect our results of operations. If we do not successfully address the risks inherent in the expansion of our international operations, our business could suffer. We currently have non-U.S. operations in Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand, and we intend to expand further into international markets. Expansion of our international operations will require a significant amount of attention from our management and substantial financial resources and might require us to add qualified management in these markets. Our direct sales model requires us to attract, retain and manage qualified sales personnel capable of selling into markets outside the United States. In some cases, our costs of sales might increase if our customers require us to sell through local distributors. If we are unable to grow our international operations in a cost-effective and timely manner, our business and operating results could be harmed. Doing business internationally involves additional risks that could harm our operating results, including, without limitation: Differing technology standards; Imposition of currency exchange controls; Potentially adverse tax consequences; Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in certain countries; Compliance with multiple conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; Seasonal reductions in business activity specific to certain markets; Restrictions on repatriation of earnings; Differing labor regulations; Differing accounting rules and practices; Restrictive and varying privacy regulations in different countries, particularly in the European Union; Restrictions on the export of technologies such as data security and encryption; and Import and export restrictions and tariffs. We expect that an increasing portion of our international revenues will be denominated in foreign currencies, subjecting us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we expand our international operations, exposures to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions may increase. 20 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and strain our resources. As part of our business strategy, we have made acquisitions in the past. The successful integration of acquired companies requires, among other things, coordination of various departments, including solution development, engineering, sales and marketing and finance, as well as integration in our system of internal controls. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including, without limitation: Difficulties or delays in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel; Difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers of our acquired companies; Diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; Risks of entering new sectors of the nonprofit, charitable giving and educational industries; Potential loss of key employees; and Inability to generate sufficient return on investment. Acquisitions also frequently result in recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our operating results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, our existing stockholders would be diluted which, in turn, could affect the market price of our stock. Moreover, we could finance any acquisition with debt, resulting in higher leverage and interest costs. As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. Furthermore, if we incur additional debt to fund acquisitions and are unable to service our debt obligation we may have a greater risk of default under our credit facility. The success of our acquisitions will depend in part on our ability to retain their engineering, sales, marketing, development and other personnel. It is possible that these employees might decide to terminate their employment. If key employees terminate their employment, the sales, marketing or development activities of acquired companies might be adversely affected, our management's attention might be diverted from successfully integrating the acquired operations to hiring suitable replacements and, as a result, our business might suffer. We significantly increased our leverage in connection with acquisitions. We incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness in connection with recent acquisitions. As a result of this indebtedness, our interest payment obligations have increased. The degree to which we are leveraged could have adverse effects on our business, including the following: Requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and other general corporate purposes; Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; Restricting us from making additional strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; Limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and Decreasing our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic and industry conditions. If we incur additional debt, these risks may intensify. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to the financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. 2015 Form 10-K 21 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets could negatively affect our operating results. As of December 31, 2015 , we had $436.4 million and $294.7 million of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. If the carrying value of an asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a non-cash charge to operating earnings. Changes in circumstances that could indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include declines in our stock price, market capitalization, cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. We cannot accurately predict the likelihood or potential amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could materially and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to manage our anticipated growth effectively, our operating costs may increase and our operating margins may decrease. We will need to continue to grow our infrastructure to address our acquisitions and other potential market opportunities. Our growth will continue to place, to the extent that we are able to sustain such growth, a strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. If we continue to grow our operations, by way of additional business combinations or otherwise, we may not be effective in enlarging our physical facilities and our systems and our procedures or controls may not be adequate to support such expansion or our business generally. If we are unable to manage our growth, our operating costs may increase and our operating margins may decrease. Our quarterly financial results fluctuate and might be difficult to forecast and, if our future results are below either any guidance we might issue or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock might decline. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations are difficult to forecast. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in revenue and operating results from quarter-to-quarter. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that such comparisons might not be accurate indicators of future performance. The reasons for these fluctuations include but are not limited to: Changes in general economic conditions and conditions in the markets we serve; Costs related to acquisitions of technologies or businesses; The growth rates of certain market segments in which we compete; Market acceptance of new solutions we release or acquire; The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operations and expansion of our business; Budget and spending decisions by our customers; The size and timing of sales of our software, including the relatively long sales cycles associated with many of our larger software sales; The degree of judgment required to estimate large consulting service engagements; Scheduling considerations by our customers as they impact the delivery of purchased services; Varying accounting treatments based upon the facts and circumstances of each arrangement; Utilization of our professional services personnel; Changes in our pricing policies and terms of contracts, whether initiated by us or as a result of competition; The rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force and the impact of reorganizations of our sales force; Technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; Changes in foreign currency exchange rates; 22 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Changes in the effective tax rates due to changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and our ability to utilize them, changes in federal, state or international tax laws and accounting principles, changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information that results in a recognition, derecognition or change in measurement of a tax position taken in a prior period, results of tax examinations by local and foreign taxing authorities; Expenses related to significant, unusual or discrete events which are recorded in the period in which the events occur; Regulatory compliance costs; and Extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them might cause our operating results to vary widely. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues, operating results, changes in our deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue balances and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our operating expenses, which include sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses, are based on our expectations of future revenue and are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. If revenue falls below our expectations in a quarter and we are not able to quickly reduce our operating expenses in response, our operating results for that quarter could be adversely affected. It is possible that in some future quarter our operating results may be below either any guidance we might issue or the expectations of public market analysts and investors and, as a result, the price of our common stock might fall. Restrictions in our credit facility may limit our activities, including dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions. Our credit facility contains restrictions, including covenants limiting our ability to incur additional debt, grant liens, make acquisitions and other investments, prepay specified debt, consolidate, merge or acquire other businesses, sell assets, pay dividends and other distributions, repurchase stock and enter into transactions with affiliates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with the covenants to which we are subject in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from our lenders or amend the covenants. In the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings, which we might not be able to do. In addition, certain of our material domestic subsidiaries will be required to guarantee amounts borrowed under the credit facility, and we have pledged the shares of certain of our subsidiaries as collateral for our obligations under the credit facility. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate, including allowing lenders under the credit facility to enforce guarantees of our subsidiaries, if any, or exercise their rights with respect to the shares pledged as collateral. Our business and financial performance could be negatively impacted by changes in tax laws or regulations. Our customers and we are subject to a wide variety of tax laws and regulations in jurisdictions around the world. New or revised income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time. Further, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to our customers or us. Any changes to these existing tax laws could adversely affect our domestic and international business operations, and our business and financial performance. Additionally, these events could require us or our customers to pay additional tax amounts on a prospective or retroactive basis, as well as require our customers or us to pay fines and/or penalties and interest for past amounts deemed to be due. Additionally, new, changed, modified or newly interpreted or applied tax laws could increase our customers' and our compliance, operating and other costs, as well as the costs of our solutions. Any or all of these events could adversely impact our business and financial performance. 2015 Form 10-K 23 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. We have recorded significant deferred tax assets, and we might never realize their full value, which would result in a charge against our earnings. As of December 31, 2015 , we had deferred tax assets of $55.4 million . Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon our generating sufficient taxable income in future years to realize the tax benefit from those assets. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at least annually for realizability. A charge against our earnings would result if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. This could be caused by, among other things, deterioration in performance, loss of key contracts, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the solutions sold by our business and a variety of other factors. If a deferred tax asset was determined to be not realizable in a future period, the charge to earnings would be recognized as an expense in our results of operations in the period the determination is made. Additionally, if we are unable to utilize our deferred tax assets, our cash flow available to fund operations could be adversely affected. Depending on future circumstances, it is possible that we might never realize the full value of our deferred tax assets. Any future determination of impairment of a significant portion of our deferred tax assets would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Claims that we or our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party may require us to incur significant costs, enter into royalty or licensing agreements or develop or license substitute technology. We may in the future be subject to claims that our technologies in our solutions and services infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party. In addition, the vendors providing us with technology that we use in our own technology could become subject to similar infringement claims. Although we believe that our solutions and services do not infringe any intellectual property or other proprietary rights, we cannot be certain that our solutions and services do not, or that they will not in the future, infringe intellectual property or other proprietary rights held by others. Any claims of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is without merit, and could distract our management from our business. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from the claim could require us to pay substantial amounts, or obtain a license to continue to use the solutions and services that are the subject of the claim, and/or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms from the third party asserting any particular claim, or that we would be able to successfully develop alternative technology on a timely basis, or that we would be able to obtain a license from another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, the solutions and services. In addition, we generally provide in our customer arrangements for certain solutions and services that we will indemnify our customers against third-party infringement claims relating to technology we provide to those customers, which could obligate us to pay damages if the solutions and services were found to be infringing. Infringement claims asserted against us, our vendors or our customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our solutions utilize open source software, which may subject us to litigation, require us to re-engineer our solutions, or otherwise divert resources away from our development efforts. We use open source software in connection with certain of our solutions. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License, Apache-style licenses, BSD-style licenses and other open source licenses. There is little legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of some of these licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is currently unable to be determined and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our solutions and technologies. From time to time, companies that incorporate open source software into their products have faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. Therefore, we could be subject to litigation by parties claiming ownership of open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their own software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. While we monitor our use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose the source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur and we may be required to release proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our applications, discontinue sales in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business. 24 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. We rely upon trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights, which might not provide us with adequate protection. Our success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology rights. We might not be successful in protecting our proprietary technology and our proprietary rights might not provide us with a meaningful competitive advantage. To protect our core proprietary technology, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements, each of which affords only limited protection. We have no patent protection for Raiser's Edge, which is one of our core solutions and responsible for a significant portion of our revenue. Any inability to protect our intellectual property rights could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights in our solutions to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Despite the measures taken by us, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology and information without authorization. Policing unauthorized use of our solutions is difficult, and litigation could become necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any litigation could be time consuming and expensive to prosecute or resolve, and could result in substantial diversion of management attention and resources and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increasing and evolving government regulation could affect our business. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations applicable to businesses generally as well as laws and regulations directly applicable to electronic commerce and payment processing. State, federal and foreign governments may adopt new laws and regulations or modify existing laws and regulations applicable to our business. Any such new or modified legislation or regulation could dampen the growth and decrease the acceptance of the Internet and online commerce. If such a decline occurs, companies may decide in the future not to use our solutions and services. Any new or modified laws or regulations in the following areas, among others, could negatively affect our business: User privacy; Payment processing and related interchange rates; Merchant surcharge limits; Taxation of foreign earnings; and Consumer protection, including the potential application of do not call registry requirements on our customers and consumer backlash in general to direct marketing efforts of our customers. Pending and enacted legislation at the state and federal levels, including those related to fundraising activities and payment processing, may also restrict further our information gathering and disclosure practices, for example, by requiring us to comply with extensive and costly registration, reporting or disclosure requirements. Any substantial increase in government regulation affecting our business, or any failure to comply with existing regulations, could require substantial investments to achieve compliance, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. General economic factors, both domestically and internationally, might adversely affect our financial performance. General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, might adversely affect our financial performance. Weakness in the financial and housing markets, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, overall economic slowdowns and other economic factors could adversely affect donations to nonprofits, reducing their revenue and, therefore, possibly their demand for the solutions and services we sell and lengthen our sales and payment cycles. In addition, these adverse economic conditions could reduce charitable transactions executed through our payments platform, which would adversely affect our revenue and net income. Higher interest rates, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the United States could increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results. These conditions could affect not only our operations, but also the operations of suppliers from whom we purchase or license solutions and services, which could result in an increase in the cost to us of our solutions and services, reducing our margins. These 2015 Form 10-K 25 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. factors also affect our customers who may reduce their purchasing of our solutions due to the adverse effects of certain economic factors. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. We depend on our principal executive offices and other facilities for the continued operation of our business. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events, including terrorist attacks, computer hacker attacks and natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could disrupt one or more of these facilities and adversely affect our operations. Our principal executive offices are located in a coastal region that has experienced hurricanes in the past. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies and typically have provisions in our commercial contracts that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments None. Item 2. Properties We lease our headquarters in Charleston, South Carolina which consists of approximately 218,000 square feet. The lease on our Charleston headquarters expires in October 2024, and we have the option for two 5-year renewal periods. We also lease additional office space in Charleston, South Carolina; Austin, Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana; Cambridge, Massachusetts; Washington D.C.; San Diego and Emeryville, California; Overland Park, Kansas; Lincoln, Nebraska; Miami, Florida; Bedford, New Hampshire; Edina, Minnesota; New York, New York; Middlesex, New Jersey; Glasgow, Scotland; Dublin, Ireland; London, England; Brisbane, Australia; and Sydney, Australia. We believe that our properties are in good operating condition and adequately serve our current business operations for all of our business segments. We also anticipate that suitable additional or alternative space, including those under lease options, will be available at commercially reasonable terms for future expansion. Item 3. Legal proceedings From time to time we may become involved in litigation relating to claims arising from our ordinary course of business. We do not believe that there are any claims or actions pending or threatened against us, the ultimate disposition of which would have a material adverse effect on us. Item 4. Mine safety disclosures Not applicable. 26 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. PART II. Item 5. Market for registration's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities Our common stock is trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (NASDAQ) under the symbol BLKB. The following table sets forth, for the quarterly reporting periods indicated, the high and low market prices for shares of our common stock, as reported by NASDAQ, and dividend per share information. Common Stock Market Prices High Low Dividends Declared Fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 Fourth quarter $ 67.54 $ 56.17 $ 0.12 Third quarter 63.73 54.10 0.12 Second quarter 59.67 47.39 0.12 First quarter 47.45 42.00 0.12 Fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 Fourth quarter $ 45.86 $ 37.38 $ 0.12 Third quarter 40.99 33.62 0.12 Second quarter 36.33 29.42 0.12 First quarter 38.84 29.99 0.12 As of February 8, 2016 , there were approximately 144 stockholders of record of our common stock. Because many of our shares of common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, this number is not representative of the total number of stockholders represented by these stockholders of record. On February 8, 2016 , the closing price of our common stock was $51.50 . 2015 Form 10-K 27 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Stock Performance Graph The following performance graph shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or filed or incorporated by reference in future filings with the SEC, or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. The performance graph compares the performance of our common stock to the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ Computer and Data Processing Index. The graph covers the most recent five-year period ending December 31, 2015 . The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and each index was $100.00 at December 31, 2010 , and that all dividends are reinvested. December 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Blackbaud, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 108.97 $ 91.50 $ 153.20 $ 178.39 $ 274.57 NASDAQ Composite Index 100.00 100.53 116.92 166.19 188.78 199.95 NASDAQ Computer & Data Processing Index 100.00 100.83 108.27 165.81 190.41 224.42 28 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Common Stock Acquisitions and Repurchases The following table provides information about shares of common stock acquired or repurchased during the three months ended December 31, 2015 . All of these acquisitions were of common stock withheld by us to satisfy minimum tax obligations of employees due upon exercise of stock appreciation rights and vesting of restricted stock awards and units. The level of acquisition activity varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting as well as employee exercise decisions. Period Total number of shares purchased Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs (1) Approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (in thousands) Beginning balance, October 1, 2015 $ 50,000 October 1, 2015 through October 31, 2015 845 $ 64.01 50,000 November 1, 2015 through November 30, 2015 105,920 62.67 50,000 December 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015 50,000 Total 106,765 $ 62.70 $ 50,000 (1) In August 2010, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program that authorized us to purchase up to $50.0 million of our outstanding shares of common stock. We have not made any repurchases under the program to date, and the program does not have an expiration date. Dividend Policy Our Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy which reflects an intention to distribute to our stockholders a portion of the cash generated by our business that exceeds our operating needs and capital expenditures as regular quarterly dividends. This policy reflects our judgment that we can provide greater value to our stockholders by distributing to them a portion of the cash generated by our business. In accordance with this dividend policy, we paid quarterly dividends at an annual rate of $0.48 per share in 2015 and 2014 , resulting in aggregate dividend payments to stockholders of $22.5 million and $22.1 million in 2015 and 2014 , respectively. In February 2016 , our Board of Directors approved an annual dividend rate of $0.48 per share for 2016 . We declared a first quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on March 15, 2016 , to stockholders of record on February 26, 2016 , and currently intend to pay quarterly dividends at an annual rate of $0.48 per share of common stock for each of the remaining fiscal quarters in 2016 . Dividends on our common stock will not be cumulative. Consequently, if dividends on our common stock are not declared and/or paid at the targeted level, our stockholders will not be entitled to receive such payments in the future. We are not obligated to pay dividends, and as described more fully below, our stockholders might not receive any dividends as a result of the following factors: Our credit facility limits the amount of dividends we are permitted to pay; Our Board of Directors could decide to reduce dividends or not to pay dividends at all, at any time and for any reason; The amount of dividends distributed is subject to state law restrictions (as discussed below); and We might not have enough cash to pay dividends due to changes to our operating earnings, working capital requirements and anticipated cash needs. Assumptions and Considerations We estimate that the cash necessary to fund dividends on our common stock for 2016 at an annual rate of $0.48 per share is approximately $22.6 million (assuming 47.0 million shares of common stock are outstanding, net of treasury stock). We have a stock repurchase program that authorizes us to purchase up to $50.0 million of our outstanding shares of common stock. The program does not have an expiration date. The shares could be purchased in a self-tender for our stock, from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon market conditions and other factors, all in accordance with the requirements of applicable law. Any open market purchases under the 2015 Form 10-K 29 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. repurchase program will be made in compliance with Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and all other applicable securities regulations. We might not purchase any shares of common stock and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, at any time and for any reason, to cancel the stock repurchase program. We believe that our cash on hand and the cash flows we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements through 2016 , including dividends and purchases under our stock repurchase program. See Managements discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations Liquidity and capital resources in Item 7 in this report. If our assumptions as to operating expenses, working capital requirements and capital expenditures are too low or if unexpected cash needs arise that we are not able to fund with cash on hand or with borrowings under our credit facility, we would need to either reduce or eliminate dividends. If we were to use working capital or permanent borrowings to fund dividends, we would have less cash available for future dividends and other purposes, which could negatively impact our stock price, financial condition, results of operations and ability to maintain or expand our business. We have estimated our dividend only for 2016 , and we cannot assure our stockholders that during or following 2016 we will pay dividends at the estimated levels, or at all except with regard to dividends previously declared by the Board of Directors but not yet paid. We are not required to pay dividends and our Board of Directors may modify or revoke our dividend policy at any time. Dividend payments are within the absolute discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon many factors and future developments that could differ materially from our current expectations. Over time, our capital and other cash needs, including unexpected cash needs, will invariably change and remain subject to uncertainties, which could impact the level of any dividends we pay in the future. We believe that our dividend policy could limit, but not preclude, our ability to pursue growth as we intend to retain sufficient cash after the distribution of dividends to permit the pursuit of growth opportunities. In order to pay dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy and to fund any substantial portion of our stock repurchase program, we could require financing or borrowings to fund any significant acquisitions or to pursue growth opportunities requiring capital significantly beyond our anticipated levels. Management will evaluate potential growth opportunities as they arise and, if our Board of Directors determines that it is in our best interest to use cash that would otherwise be available for distribution as dividends to pursue an acquisition opportunity, to materially increase capital spending or for some other purpose, the Board would be free to depart from or change our dividend policy at any time. Restrictions on Payment of Dividends Under Delaware law, we can only pay dividends either out of surplus (which is defined as total assets at fair market value minus total liabilities, minus statutory capital) or out of current or the immediately preceding years earnings. As of December 31, 2015 , we had $15.4 million in cash and cash equivalents. In addition, we anticipate that we will have sufficient earnings in 2016 to pay dividends at the level described above. Although we believe we will have sufficient surplus and earnings to pay dividends at the anticipated levels for 2016 , our Board of Directors will seek periodically to assure itself of this sufficiency before actually declaring any dividends. Under our credit facility, we also have restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends and our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock. In order to pay any cash dividends and/or repurchase shares of stock: (1) no default or event of default shall have occurred and be continuing under the credit facility, and (2) our pro forma net leverage ratio, as set forth in the credit agreement, must be 0.25 less than the net leverage ratio requirement at the time of dividend declaration or share repurchase. See Managements discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations Liquidity and capital resources in Item 7 in this report. 30 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 6. Selected financial data The selected financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in Item 7 in this report and our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report to fully understand factors, including our business acquisitions and dispositions as well as presentation of certain of our subscriptions revenues and costs on a gross basis effective October 2013, that may affect the comparability of the information presented below. The following data, insofar as it relates to each of the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , has been derived from the audited annual financial statements, including the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2015 and 2014 , and the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, cash flows and stockholders equity for the three years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 and notes thereto in Item 8 of this report. The following data, insofar as it relates to each of the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 , and the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 are derived from audited financial statements not included in this report. Year ending December 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS Total revenue $ 637,940 $ 564,421 $ 503,817 $ 447,419 $ 370,868 Total cost of revenue 304,631 273,438 232,663 202,460 157,194 Gross profit 333,309 290,983 271,154 244,959 213,674 Total operating expenses 286,597 244,619 219,612 225,524 162,746 Income from operations 46,712 46,364 51,542 19,435 50,928 Net income 25,649 28,290 30,472 6,583 33,220 PER SHARE DATA Basic net income $ 0.56 $ 0.63 $ 0.68 $ 0.15 $ 0.76 Diluted net income 0.55 0.62 0.67 0.15 0.75 Cash dividends 0.48 0.48 0.48 0.48 0.48 BALANCE SHEET DATA Total assets $ 1,223,853 $ 943,183 $ 706,610 $ 705,747 $ 392,590 Deferred revenue, including current portion 237,335 221,274 190,574 185,018 163,437 Total debt, including current portion 408,604 280,571 152,908 215,500 Total long-term liabilities 446,967 336,263 188,384 246,368 12,547 2015 Form 10-K 31 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with Item 1A Risk factors and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following discussion and analysis presents financial information denominated in millions of dollars which can lead to differences from rounding when compared to similar information contained in the consolidated financial statements and related notes which are primarily denominated in thousands of dollars. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements reflect our current view with respect to future events and financial performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those set forth under Item 1A. Risk factors and elsewhere in this report, that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results. Except as required by law, we do not intend, and undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. Executive summary We are a leading provider of software and services for the global philanthropic community. We offer a full spectrum of cloud-based and on-premises software solutions, as well as a resource network that empowers and connects organizations of all sizes. Our portfolio of software and services support nonprofit fundraising and relationship management, digital marketing, advocacy, accounting, payments and analytics, as well as grant management, corporate social responsibility, and education. As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 35,000 active customers including nonprofits, K-12 private and higher education institutions, healthcare organizations, foundations and other charitable giving entities, and corporations. We derive revenue from charging subscription fees for the use of our cloud-based solutions, selling perpetual software licenses and providing a broad offering of services, including consulting, training, installation and implementation services, as well as ongoing customer support and maintenance. Furthermore, we derive revenue from providing hosting services, providing transaction and payment processing services and from providing analytic services including performing donor prospect research engagements, benchmarking studies, data modeling services and selling lists of potential donors. We have experienced growth in our payment processing services from the continued shift to online giving, further integration of these services to our existing solution portfolio and the sale of these services to new and existing customers. During 2014, we introduced and began executing on a five point growth strategy. In 2015, these strategies evolved to account for progress to date and future outlook and are as follows: 1. Integrated and Open Solutions in the Cloud We will continue to transition our business to predominantly serve customers through a subscription-based cloud delivery model, enabling lower cost of entry, greater scalability and lower total cost of ownership to our customers. There is a concerted effort underway to optimize our portfolio of solutions and integrate powerful capabilities such as built in data, analytics, payment processing and tailored user-specific experiences to bring even greater value and performance to our customers. In 2015, we announced the general availability of Raiser's Edge NXT, Financial Edge NXT, and we introduced Blackbaud SKY, which is our new, innovative cloud technology architecture for the global philanthropic community. 2. Drive Sales Effectiveness We are making investments to increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, to expand our direct sales and customer success teams and to introduce indirect sales with the announcement of a value added reseller ("VAR") program, launching in 2016. 3. Expand TAM into Near Adjacencies with Acquisitions We will continue to evaluate compelling opportunities to acquire companies, technologies and/or services. We will be guided by our acquisition criteria for considering attractive assets, which expand our total addressable market, provide entry into new and near adjacencies, accelerate our shift to the cloud, accelerate revenue growth, are accretive to margins and present synergistic opportunities. 4. Streamline Operations We have largely completed the installations of single best-in-breed back-office solutions to standardize operations utilizing scalable tools and systems. Our focus is now shifting towards operational excellence and quality initiatives focused on streamlining processes to gain efficiency and scalability. 32 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 5. Execute our 3-Year Margin Improvement Plan In 2014, we implemented a 3-year operating margin improvement plan designed to increase our operating effectiveness and efficiency and improve non-GAAP operating margins 300 to 600 basis points on a constant currency basis from our 2014 baseline of 17.5%, by the time we exit 2017. We plan to continue making investments in our solution portfolio and go-to-market organization to ensure we are well positioned to benefit from shifts in the market, including demand for our cloud-based subscription offerings, which we expect will drive higher long-term revenue growth. We plan to continue making investments in the infrastructure that supports these offerings as well as certain other solution development initiatives including further expansion of our payment processing and analytics services. As we execute on our five key growth initiatives to strengthen our market leadership position, we also plan to focus on achieving scalability of our operations, while attaining our targeted level of profitability. We completed our acquisition of Smart Tuition in October 2015 for $187.8 million in cash, net of closing adjustments. Smart Tuition is a leading provider of payment software and services for private schools and parents. The acquisition of Smart Tuition further expanded our offerings in the K-12 technology sector. We drew down a $186.0 million revolving credit loan under the 2014 Credit Facility to finance the acquisition of Smart Tuition. Additionally, we completed our acquisitions of WhippleHill and MicroEdge in June 2014 and October 2014 , respectively. We have included the results of operations of acquired companies in our consolidated results of operations from the date of their respective acquisition, which impacts the comparability of our results of operations when comparing 2015 , 2014 and 2013 . We have noted in the discussion below, to the extent meaningful, the impact on the comparability of our consolidated results of operations to prior year results due to the inclusion of acquired companies. In May 2015, we completed the sale of Customer Technology B.V. ("RLC"), a formerly wholly-owned entity based in the Netherlands, as discussed in Note 18 of our consolidated financial statements in this report. The sale resulted in a loss of $2.0 million , which negatively impacted net income for 2015 . We continue to sell and support many of our offerings to customers in the Netherlands either directly through our other foreign subsidiaries or through the use of partnerships, which we view as a better approach for serving that market. Total revenue Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 (1) Change 2014 (2) Total revenue $ 637.9 13.0 % $ 564.4 (1) Included in total revenue for 2015 was $31.9 million and $8.5 million attributable to the inclusion of MicroEdge and Smart Tuition, respectively. WhippleHill also positively impacted total revenue for 2015. (2) Included in total revenue for 2014 was $4.5 million and $5.8 million attributable to the inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge, respectively. Excluding the impact of acquisitions noted above, our revenue growth during 2015 was primarily driven by growth in subscriptions revenue as our business model continues to shift towards providing predominantly cloud-based subscription solutions. Subscriptions revenue also grew as a result of increases in the number of customers and the volume of transactions for which we process payments. Excluding the impact of MicroEdge, maintenance revenue, as well as license fees and other revenue declined during 2015 from the continued migration of our business model toward subscription-based solutions, including our Raiser's Edge NXT and Financial Edge NXT solutions. In the near-term, the transition to subscription-based solutions negatively impacts total revenue growth, as time-based license revenue from subscription arrangements is deferred and recognized ratably over the subscription period, whereas on-premises license revenue from arrangements that include perpetual licenses is recognized up-front. In addition, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily those between the U.S. dollar and Canadian dollar, negatively impacted our total revenue during 2015 by approximately $9.6 million . Further explanation of this impact is included below under the caption "Foreign currency exchange rates". 2015 Form 10-K 33 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Income from operations Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 Income from operations $ 46.7 0.6 % $ 46.4 The modest increase in income from operations during 2015 was primarily driven by growth in subscriptions revenue discussed above, partially offset by increases in stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $7.9 million and $6.1 million, respectively. In 2015, we also recorded charges for employee severance of $3.2 million related to the elimination of certain roles within the company. In addition, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily those between the U.S. dollar and Canadian dollar, negatively impacted our income from operations during 2015 by approximately $3.7 million. Further explanation of this impact is included below under the caption "Foreign currency exchange rates". Customer retention Historically, we have disclosed a measure of retention for our license customers with maintenance contracts. Maintenance contracts are typically renewed on an annual basis. Subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one year renewals thereafter. Over time, we anticipate a decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model. We also anticipate an increase in subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our subscription solutions which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs. Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines subscription and maintenance customer contracts provides a better representation of our customers' overall behavior. For 2015, approximately 94% of our customers with recurring subscription or maintenance contracts were retained. Balance sheet and cash flow At December 31, 2015 , our cash and cash equivalents were $15.4 million and outstanding borrowings under the 2014 Credit Facility were $410.2 million . During 2015 , we generated $114.3 million in cash flow from operations, made repayments on outstanding borrowings of $184.5 million , returned $22.5 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had cash outlays of $34.1 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs. 34 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Results of operations Comparison of 2015 to 2014 and 2014 to 2013 During 2015, 2014 and 2013, we acquired companies that provided us with strategic opportunities to expand our TAM and share of the philanthropic giving market through the integration of complementary solutions and services to serve the changing needs of our customers. The following are the companies we acquired and their respective acquisition date: Smart, LLC ("Smart Tuition") October 2, 2015; MicroEdge Holdings, LLC (MicroEdge) October 1, 2014; WhippleHill Communications, Inc. (WhippleHill) June 16, 2014; and MyCharity, Ltd. (MyCharity) March 6, 2013. We have included the results of operations of acquired companies in our consolidated results of operations from the date of their respective acquisition, which impacts the comparability of our results of operations when comparing 2015 to 2014 and 2014 to 2013 . We have noted in the discussion below, to the extent meaningful and quantifiable, the impact on the comparability of our consolidated results of operations to prior year results due to the inclusion of acquired companies. Since we have integrated certain of WhippleHill's historical offerings into our suite of K-12 solutions and also because we are selling certain of WhippleHill's solutions instead of our historical offerings, it is impracticable to determine the amount of 2015 revenue attributable solely to this acquired company. In addition, because we have integrated the operations of MicroEdge and WhippleHill into ours, it is impracticable to determine amounts of operating costs attributable solely to these acquired companies for 2015. Similarly, since we have integrated MyCharity's solutions and operations into ours, it is impracticable to determine the amount of revenue and operating costs attributable solely to this acquired company. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in this report for a summary of these acquisitions with the exception of MyCharity which is insignificant for disclosure. As a result of third-party contractual changes, certain of our subscriptions revenues and costs associated with our payment processing services are presented on a gross basis since October 2013, whereas comparable revenues and costs are presented on a net basis in the prior periods. As such, total revenue, total cost of revenue, subscriptions revenue and cost of subscriptions revenue for prior periods are not directly comparable, although gross profit, operating income and net income were unaffected by the prospective change. An analysis of our historical financial statements for the four quarters and year ended December 31, 2013 presented on a basis comparable to 2014 can be found at www.blackbaud.com/investorrelations , which is intended to assist with the evaluation of our performance in light of the change in presentation. Revenue by segment Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 (3) Change 2013 GMBU (1) $ 313.9 16.0 % $ 270.6 12.6 % $ 240.4 ECBU (2) 279.9 14.2 % 245.1 11.6 % 219.7 IBU 42.0 (10.8 )% 47.1 11.9 % 42.1 Other 2.1 31.3 % 1.6 % 1.6 Total revenue (4) $ 637.9 13.0 % $ 564.4 12.0 % $ 503.8 (1) Included in GMBU revenue for 2014 was $4.5 million attributable to the inclusion of WhippleHill. WhippleHill also positively impacted GMBU revenue and total revenue for 2015. Included in GMBU revenue for 2015 was $8.5 million attributable to the inclusion of Smart Tuition. (2) Included in ECBU revenue and total revenue for 2015 and 2014 was $31.9 million and $5.8 million, respectively, attributable to the inclusion of MicroEdge. (3) Included in ECBU, GMBU, IBU and total revenue for 2014 was $6.8 million, $13.2 million, $1.1 million and $21.1 million, respectively, attributable to the prospective change in presentation from net to gross for revenue and costs associated with certain payment processing services as a result of certain third-party arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective October 2013. These amounts make comparability of 2014 to 2013 less meaningful, as we accounted for these payments on a net basis prior to October 2013. The revenue for 2015 and 2014 are presented on a comparable basis. (4) The individual amounts for each year may not sum to total revenue due to rounding. 2015 Form 10-K 35 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) GMBU Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 (2) Change 2013 GMBU revenue (1) $ 313.9 16.0 % $ 270.6 12.6 % $ 240.4 % of total revenue 49.2 % 47.9 % 47.7 % (1) Included in GMBU revenue for 2014 was $4.5 million attributable to the inclusion of WhippleHill. WhippleHill also positively impacted GMBU revenue and total revenue for 2015. Included in GMBU revenue for 2015 was $8.5 million attributable to the inclusion of Smart Tuition. (2) Included in GMBU revenue for 2014 was $13.2 million attributable to the prospective change in presentation from net to gross for revenue and costs associated with certain payment processing services as a result of certain third-party arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective October 2013. These amounts make comparability of 2014 to 2013 less meaningful, as we accounted for these payments on a net basis prior to October 2013. The revenue for 2015 and 2014 are presented on a comparable basis. 2015 vs. 2014 After removing the impact attributable to Smart Tuition as discussed above, the remaining $34.8 million increase in GMBU revenue during 2015 when compared to 2014 was primarily attributable to growth in subscriptions revenue, partially offset by declines in license fee and other revenue and maintenance revenue. The growth in subscriptions revenue was primarily due to increases in demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions. GMBU subscriptions revenue also benefited from increases in the number of customers and the volume of transactions for which we process payments. The contribution of revenue from WhippleHill added to GMBU's subscription revenue growth during 2015 . Also contributing to overall growth in GMBU revenue during 2015 were modest increases in consulting services revenue as well as training services revenue. The growth in subscriptions and services revenue were partially offset by decreases in license fee and other revenue and maintenance revenue during 2015 from the continued migration of our business to subscription-based solutions. 2014 vs. 2013 After removing the impact attributable to the change in revenue presentation and acquisition of WhippleHill noted above, the remaining $12.5 million increase in revenue for GMBU during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily attributable to growth in subscriptions revenue. The growth in subscriptions resulted from an increase in demand for our cloud-based and hosted fundraising offerings, increases in the number of customers and the volume of transactions for which we process payments, and an increase in usage-based transaction revenue. Also contributing to the growth in GMBU revenue was an increase in maintenance revenue primarily from new customer license arrangements and increases in contracts with existing customers. 36 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ECBU Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 (2) Change 2013 ECBU revenue (1) $ 279.9 14.2 % $ 245.1 11.6 % $ 219.7 % of total revenue 43.9 % 43.4 % 43.6 % (1) Included in ECBU revenue for 2015 and 2014 was $31.9 million and $5.8 million, respectively, attributable to the inclusion of MicroEdge. (2) Included in ECBU revenue for 2014 was $6.8 million attributable to the prospective change in presentation from net to gross for revenue and costs associated with certain payment processing services as a result of certain third-party arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective October 2013. These amounts make comparability of 2014 to 2013 less meaningful, as we accounted for these payments on a net basis prior to October 2013. The revenue for 2015 and 2014 are presented on a comparable basis. 2015 vs. 2014 After removing the impacts attributable to MicroEdge as discussed above, the remaining $8.7 million increase in ECBU revenue during 2015 , when compared to 2014 , was primarily attributable to growth in subscriptions revenue, partially offset by decreases in consulting services revenue and revenue from license fees. The growth in subscriptions resulted primarily from an increase in the number of customers and the volume of transactions for which we process payments, as well as increases in demand for our hosting services associated with our Blackbaud CRM solution and our subscription-based analytic services. Also contributing to the overall growth in ECBU revenue was an increase in maintenance revenue related to new Blackbaud CRM customers. As discussed above, consulting services revenue and license fees and other revenue decreased as a result of the continuing shift in our go-to-market strategy towards cloud-based solutions, which in general, require less implementation services. 2014 vs. 2013 After removing the impact attributable to the change in revenue presentation and acquisition of MicroEdge noted above, the remaining $12.8 million increase in revenue for ECBU during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily attributable to growth in subscriptions revenue. The growth in subscriptions resulted from an increase in demand for our cloud-based and hosted fundraising offerings, increases in the number of customers and the volume of transactions for which we process payments, and an increase in usage-based transaction revenue. Also contributing to the growth in ECBU revenue was an increase in maintenance revenue primarily related to new Blackbaud CRM customers. 2015 Form 10-K 37 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) IBU Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 (1) Change 2013 IBU revenue $ 42.0 (10.8 )% $ 47.1 11.9 % $ 42.1 % of total revenue 6.6 % 8.3 % 8.4 % (1) Included in IBU revenue for 2014 was $1.1 million attributable to the prospective change in presentation from net to gross for revenue and costs associated with certain payment processing services as a result of certain third-party arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective October 2013. These amounts make comparability of 2014 to 2013 less meaningful, as we accounted for these payments on a net basis prior to October 2013. The revenue for 2015 and 2014 are presented on a comparable basis. 2015 vs. 2014 The decrease in IBU revenue during 2015 , when compared to 2014 , was primarily related to a reduction in perpetual license sales of our Raiser's Edge solution, which also caused IBU consulting services revenue and maintenance revenue to decrease. In the near term, we expect a continued reduction in IBU revenue related to Raiser's Edge license fees, consulting services and maintenance as our customers transition to our Raiser's Edge NXT solution. Also contributing to the decrease in IBU revenue during 2015 was the sale of RLC in May 2015 as well as changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar which affect the translation of its revenues into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting consolidated financial results. 2014 vs. 2013 After removing the impact attributable to the change in revenue presentation noted above, the remaining $3.9 million increase in revenue for IBU during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily attributable to growth in subscriptions revenue. The growth in subscriptions resulted from an increase in usage-based transaction revenue, increases in the number of customers and the volume of transactions for which we process payments, and an increase in demand for our cloud-based and hosted fundraising offerings. Also contributing to the growth in IBU revenue was an increase in maintenance revenue primarily from new customer license arrangements and increases in contracts with existing customers. 38 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Operating results Subscriptions Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 (2) Change 2013 Subscriptions revenue (1) $ 331.8 26.0 % $ 263.4 23.8 % $ 212.7 Cost of subscriptions (3) 167.3 25.6 % 133.2 42.3 % 93.6 Subscriptions gross profit $ 164.5 26.3 % $ 130.2 9.3 % $ 119.1 Subscriptions gross margin 49.6 % 49.4 % 56.0 % (1) Included in subscriptions revenue for 2015 was $18.2 million and $8.3 million attributable to the inclusion of MicroEdge and Smart Tuition, respectively. WhippleHill also positively impacted subscriptions revenue for 2015 when compared to 2014. Included in subscriptions revenue for 2014 was $3.0 million and $2.7 million attributable to the inclusion of MicroEdge and WhippleHill, respectively. (2) Included in subscriptions revenue and cost of subscriptions for 2014 was $21.1 million attributable to the prospective change in presentation from net to gross for revenue and costs associated with certain payment processing services as a result of certain third-party arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective October 2013. These amounts make comparability of 2014 to 2013 less meaningful, as we accounted for these payments on a net basis prior to October 2013. The revenue for 2015 and 2014 are presented on a comparable basis. (3) Included in cost of subscriptions for 2014 was $1.2 million attributable to the inclusion of WhippleHill. The impact on cost of subscriptions in 2014 as a result of the inclusion of MicroEdge was not significant. Subscriptions revenue is comprised of revenue from charging for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to hosted applications and hosting services, access to certain data services and our online subscription training offerings, revenue from payment processing services as well as variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions. We continue to experience growth in sales of our hosted applications and hosting services as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings, including existing customers that are migrating from on-premises solutions to our cloud-based solutions. In addition, we have experienced growth in our payment processing services from the continued shift to online giving, further integration of these services to our existing solution portfolio and the sale of these services to new and existing customers. Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one year annual renewals thereafter. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our subscription solutions which we believe will drive subscriptions revenue growth. Cost of subscriptions is primarily comprised of human resource costs, stock-based compensation expense, third-party royalty and data expenses, hosting expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangibles from business combinations, amortization of software development costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services including remittances of amounts due to third-parties and other costs incurred in providing support and services to our customers. 2015 vs. 2014 Excluding the incremental subscriptions revenue from MicroEdge and Smart Tuition as discussed above, subscriptions increased by $44.9 million during 2015 when compared to 2014. The increase in recurring subscriptions revenue during 2015 when compared to 2014 was primarily due to strong demand across our solution portfolio including our cloud-based solutions, as well as from providing hosting services to customers who have purchased perpetual rights to certain of our software solutions. Subscriptions revenue also grew as a result of increases in the number of customers and the volume of transactions for which we process payments, as well as an increase in the volume of subscription-based analytic services provided. Also contributing to the increase in subscriptions revenue was the inclusion of WhippleHill for the full year in 2015. The increase in cost of subscriptions during 2015 when compared to 2014 was relatively consistent with the increase in revenue. The increase in cost of subscriptions was primarily due to an increase in transaction-based costs related to our payments services of $10.0 million, an increase in human resource costs of $7.0 million, an increase in amortization expense related to software development costs of $3.5 million, an increase in the cost of third-party technology embedded in certain of our subscription solutions of $3.4 million and an increase in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $2.8 million. The increase in human resource costs was primarily due to an increase in subscription customer support headcount directly related to our growing base of subscription customers. The inclusion of Smart Tuition, MicroEdge and WhippleHill also contributed to the increase in human resource costs during 2015. 2015 Form 10-K 39 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Subscriptions gross margin remained relatively unchanged when comparing 2015 to 2014. 2014 vs. 2013 Excluding the effects of the change in presentation associated with certain of our payment processing services and the incremental subscriptions revenue from WhippleHill and MicroEdge as discussed above, the remaining $23.9 million increase in subscriptions revenue during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily due an increase in demand for our cloud-based solutions. Subscriptions revenue also grew as a result of increases in the number of customers and the volume of transactions for which we process payments, and an increase in usage-based transaction revenue. Excluding the effects of the change in presentation associated with certain of our payment processing services as discussed above, the $18.5 million increase in cost of subscriptions during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily due to an increase in human resource costs of $10.5 million, an increase in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.7 million and an increase in allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $3.3 million. Also contributing to the increase in cost of subscriptions during 2014 was an increase in transaction-based costs related to our payments services. The increase in human resource costs was primarily due to an increase in subscription customer support directly related to our growing base of subscription customers. The increase in allocated costs was primarily a result of investments made to support anticipated growth in our operations. The inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge also contributed to the increases in human resource costs and allocated costs. The decrease in subscriptions gross margin during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily a result of the prospective change in presentation from net to gross revenues and costs as discussed above, which had no impact on gross profit. Absent this presentation change, subscriptions gross margin was 54% for 2014 compared to 56% in 2013. The remaining decrease in subscriptions gross margin for 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily due to increases in human resource costs and allocated costs outpacing the growth in subscriptions revenue as we expand headcount to support projected future subscriptions growth. 40 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Maintenance Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 Change 2013 Maintenance revenue (1) $ 153.8 4.3 % $ 147.4 6.3 % $ 138.7 Cost of maintenance (2) 27.1 6.7 % 25.4 (1.2 )% 25.7 Maintenance gross profit $ 126.7 3.9 % $ 122.0 8.0 % $ 113.0 Maintenance gross margin 82.4 % 82.7 % 81.4 % (1) Included in maintenance revenue for 2015 and 2014 was $11.0 million and $1.9 million, respectively, attributable to the inclusion of MicroEdge. (2) Included in cost of maintenance for 2014 was $0.6 million attributable to the inclusion of MicroEdge. Maintenance revenue is comprised of annual fees derived from maintenance contracts associated with new software licenses and annual renewals of existing maintenance contracts. These contracts provide customers with updates, enhancements and certain upgrades to our software solutions and online, telephone and email support. Maintenance contracts are typically renewed on an annual basis. Cost of maintenance is primarily comprised of human resource costs, stock-based compensation expense, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty costs, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangibles from business combinations, amortization of software development costs and other costs incurred in providing support and services to our customers. 2015 vs. 2014 After removing the incremental maintenance revenue from MicroEdge as discussed above, maintenance revenue decreased by $2.7 million during 2015 when compared to 2014. The decrease in maintenance revenue during 2015 when compared to 2014 was primarily related to a reduction in maintenance contracts associated with on-premises Raiser's Edge as customers migrated to our Raiser's Edge NXT cloud-based solution, partially offset by an increase in maintenance contracts associated with Blackbaud CRM. The decrease was primarily comprised of (i) $11.2 million of reductions in maintenance from contracts that were not renewed and reductions in contracts with existing customers; partially offset by (ii) $5.7 million of incremental maintenance from new customers associated with new license contracts and increases in contracts with existing customers; and (iii) $2.8 million of incremental maintenance from contractual inflationary rate adjustments. Cost of maintenance increased during 2015 when compared to 2014 primarily as a result of an increase in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $3.4 million. Partially offsetting the increase in cost of maintenance was a decrease in human resource costs primarily due to the shift in customer support headcount from maintenance towards subscriptions as customers migrate towards our cloud-based solution. Maintenance gross margin remained relatively unchanged when comparing 2015 to 2014. 2014 vs. 2013 After removing the impact of MicroEdge, as discussed above, the remaining $6.8 million increase in maintenance revenue during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily comprised of (i) $10.4 million of incremental maintenance from new customer license arrangements and increases in contracts with existing customers; and (ii) approximately $4.2 million of incremental maintenance from contractual inflationary rate adjustments; partially offset by (iii) a $7.4 million reduction in maintenance from contracts that were not renewed and reductions in contracts with existing customers. When removing the incremental costs attributable to MicroEdge discussed above, cost of maintenance during 2014 decreased by $0.9 million when compared to 2013 primarily as a result of a decrease in human resource costs. Human resource costs decreased primarily due to the shift in customer support headcount from maintenance towards subscriptions which is directly related to our growing base of subscription customers. Maintenance gross margin increased during 2014 when compared to 2013 primarily due to the incremental maintenance revenue from new customers associated with new license arrangements and increases in contracts with existing customers combined with the decrease in human resource costs. 2015 Form 10-K 41 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Services Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 Change 2013 Services revenue (1) $ 133.0 3.6% $ 128.4 1.5% $ 126.5 Cost of services (2) 102.8 (3.5)% 106.5 2.4% 104.0 Services gross profit $ 30.2 37.9% $ 21.9 (2.7)% $ 22.5 Services gross margin 22.7 % 17.0 % 17.8 % (1) Included in services revenue for 2015 was $1.8 million attributable to the inclusion of MicroEdge. The impact on services revenue in 2015 as a result of the inclusion of Smart Tuition was not significant. Included in services revenue for 2014 was $1.6 million attributable to the inclusion of WhippleHill. The impact on services revenue in 2014 as a result of the inclusion of MicroEdge was not significant. (2) Included in cost of services for 2014 was $2.5 million and $0.8 million attributable to the inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge, respectively. We derive services revenue from consulting, implementation, education, analytic and installation services. Consulting, implementation and installation services involve converting data from a customers existing system, system configuration, process re-engineering and assistance in file set up. Education services involve customer training activities. Analytic services are comprised of donor prospect research, sales of lists of potential donors, benchmarking studies and data modeling services. These analytic services involve the assessment of current and prospective donor information of the customer and are performed using our proprietary analytical tools. The end product is intended to enable organizations to more effectively target their fundraising activities. Cost of services is primarily comprised of human resource costs, stock-based compensation expense, third-party contractor expenses, classroom rentals, costs incurred in providing customer training, data expense incurred to perform analytic services, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangibles from business combinations. 2015 vs. 2014 After the incremental services revenue from MicroEdge as discussed above, the remaining $2.8 million increase in services revenue during 2015 when compared to 2014 was primarily a result of an increase in consulting services revenue from the inclusion of WhippleHill for the full year in 2015. Also contributing to the growth in services revenue during 2015 when compared to 2014 were increases in analytic and training services deliveries. We expect that the continuing shift in our go-to-market strategy towards cloud-based subscription offerings, which, in general, require less implementation services and little to no customization services when compared our traditional on-premises perpetual license arrangements, will negatively impact consulting services revenue growth over time. Cost of services decreased during 2015, when compared to 2014 primarily due to a $3.2 million decrease in human resource costs related to a reduction in consulting services headcount. Services gross margin increased during 2015 when compared to 2014 primarily due to improvements in the utilization of consulting services personnel. 2014 vs. 2013 After removing the incremental services revenue attributable to WhippleHill discussed above, services revenue remained relatively unchanged when comparing 2014 to 2013. The continuing shift in our go-to-market strategy towards cloud-based subscription offerings which, in general, require less implementation services than our traditional on-premises perpetual license arrangements has negatively impacted consulting services revenue growth. After removing the incremental cost of services related to WhippleHill and MicroEdge discussed above, cost of services remained relatively unchanged when comparing 2014 to 2013. After removing the impact of WhippleHill and MicroEdge discussed above, services gross margin remained relatively unchanged when comparing 2014 to 2013. 42 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) License fees and other Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 Change 2013 License fees and other revenue $ 19.4 (23.0 )% $ 25.2 (2.7 )% $ 25.9 Cost of license fees and other 7.4 (10.8 )% 8.3 (10.8 )% 9.3 License fees and other gross profit $ 12.0 (29.0 )% $ 16.9 1.8 % $ 16.6 License fees and other gross margin 61.8 % 67.2 % 64.2 % License fees and other revenue includes revenue from the sale of our software solutions under perpetual license arrangements, reimbursement of travel-related expenses primarily incurred during the performance of services at customer locations, fees from user conferences and third-party software referral fees. Cost of license fees and other is primarily comprised of third-party software royalties, variable reseller commissions, amortization of software development costs, human resource costs, costs of business forms, costs of user conferences, reimbursable expenses relating to the performance of services at customer locations, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangibles from business combinations. 2015 vs. 2014 Revenue from license fees and other decreased during 2015 when compared to 2014 primarily as a result of the ongoing transition of our solution portfolio away from a perpetual license-based model toward a cloud-based subscription delivery model. The decrease in cost of license fees and other during 2015 when compared to 2014 was primarily due to reductions in third-party software royalties and reseller commissions, driven by the ongoing transition of our solution portfolio away from a perpetual license-based model toward a subscription-based delivery model. In addition, cost of license fees and other decreased as there was less amortization of software development costs in 2015 when compared to 2014. License fees and other gross margin decreased during 2015 when compared to 2014 primarily due to the ongoing transition of our solution portfolio away from a perpetual license-based model toward a subscription-based delivery model relative to the lesser changes in cost of license fees and other as some costs are more fixed in nature. 2014 vs. 2013 During 2014, revenue from license fees and other decreased primarily as a result of a continued shift in our customers buying preferences away from solutions offered under perpetual license arrangements towards subscription-based hosted applications. The decrease in cost of license fees and other during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily due to a $0.6 million reduction in third-party software royalties as we sold fewer solutions with third-party software. Also contributing to the decrease in cost of license fees was a modest reduction in reseller commissions. The increase in license fees gross margin during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily due to less sales of solutions with third-party software royalties associated with them relative to the decrease in license fees revenue. 2015 Form 10-K 43 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Operating expenses Sales and marketing Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 Change 2013 Sales and marketing expense $ 123.6 15.1 % $ 107.4 10.0 % $ 97.6 % of total revenue 19.4 % 19.0 % 19.4 % Sales and marketing expense includes human resource costs, stock-based compensation expense, travel-related expenses, sales commissions, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. 2015 vs. 2014 Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of revenue remained relatively unchanged when comparing 2015 to 2014. The increase in sales and marketing expense during 2015 when compared to 2014 was primarily due to increases in human resource costs and commissions expense of $5.7 million and $4.9 million, respectively. To a lesser extent, increases in advertising and marketing materials costs of $1.9 million and IT support costs of $1.3 million also contributed to the increase in sales and marketing expense during 2015. Human resource costs increased primarily due to incremental headcount to support the increase in sales and marketing efforts of our growing operations. The increase in commission expense was primarily driven by an increase in commissionable revenue during 2015 when compared to 2014. The inclusion of Smart Tuition, MicroEdge and WhippleHill also contributed to the increase in sales and marketing expense. 2014 vs. 2013 Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of revenue remained relatively unchanged when comparing 2014 to 2013. Sales and marketing expense increased during 2014 when compared to 2013 primarily due to increases in human resource costs, commission expense and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $3.8 million, $2.2 million and $1.7 million, respectively. Human resource costs increased primarily due to incremental headcount to support the increase in sales and marketing efforts of our growing operations. Commission expense increased driven primarily by an increase in commissionable revenue during the 2014 when compared to 2013. Allocated costs increased primarily as a result of investments made to support anticipated growth in operations. Included in the overall increase in sales and marketing expense during 2014 compared to 2013 was more than $3.1 million related to our 2014 incremental operating investments targeted to accelerate organic revenue growth. The inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge also contributed to the increases in human resource costs and allocated costs. 44 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Research and development Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 Change 2013 Research and development expense $ 84.6 9.6 % $ 77.2 17.7 % $ 65.6 % of total revenue 13.3 % 13.7 % 13.0 % Research and development expense includes human resource costs, stock-based compensation expense, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new solutions, upgrading and enhancing existing solutions, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. 2015 vs. 2014 Research and development expense as a percentage of revenue remained relatively unchanged when comparing 2015 to 2014. The increase in research and development expense during 2015 when compared to 2014 was primarily due to increases in human resource costs of $11.1 million. We have added engineering headcount to drive our solution development efforts. The inclusion of Smart Tuition, MicroEdge and WhippleHill contributed to the increase in human resource costs. Also contributing to the increase in research and development expense during 2015 were increases in stock-based compensation of $1.6 million and allocated IT support costs of $1.6 million. Partially offsetting these research and development expense increases during 2015 was a $7.2 million increase in the amount of software development costs that were capitalized. The increase in the amount capitalized was a result of incurring more qualifying costs associated with development activities that are required to be capitalized under the internal-use software guidance such as those related to development of our Raiser's Edge NXT and Financial Edge NXT cloud-based solutions, as well as development costs associated with the solutions of acquired companies. We expect that the increase in the amount of software development costs capitalized will continue in the near-term as we make investments on innovation, quality and the integration of our solutions which we believe will drive revenue growth. Capitalized software development costs associated with our cloud-based solutions are subsequently amortized to cost of subscriptions revenue over the related asset's estimated useful life. 2014 vs. 2013 Research and development expense as a percentage of revenue increased during 2014 when compared to 2013 primarily due to our 2014 incremental operating investments as we made investments to optimize our portfolio of solutions including enhancements to existing solutions, as well as new solution innovation. Research and development expense increased during 2014 when compared to 2013 primarily due to increases in human resource costs, third-party contractor costs and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $8.6 million, $4.2 million and $2.8 million, respectively. Partially offsetting these increases was a $5.1 million increase in the amount of software development costs that were capitalized from an increase in development activities that generate costs which qualify for capitalization as internal-use software. The inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge also contributed to the increases in human resource costs and allocated costs. Included in the overall increase in research and development expense during 2014 compared to 2013 was more than $6.1 million related to our 2014 incremental operating investments as discussed above, which contributed to the increased third-party contractor costs. 2015 Form 10-K 45 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) General and administrative Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 Change 2013 General and administrative expense $ 76.1 30.5 % $ 58.3 15.9 % $ 50.3 % of total revenue 11.9 % 10.3 % 10.0 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of human resource costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, stock-based compensation expense, third-party professional fees, insurance, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expense and other administrative expenses. 2015 vs. 2014 General and administrative expense increased as a percentage of revenue during 2015 when compared to 2014 primarily due to the inclusion of MicroEdge, which historically had higher general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue. The growth in stock-based compensation discussed below also contributed to the increase in general and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue. The increase in general and administrative expense during 2015 when compared to 2014 was primarily due to increases in human resource costs of $7.7 million, stock-based compensation expense of $5.6 million, infrastructure costs of $3.7 million and acquisition-related expenses and integration costs of $1.9 million. Partially offsetting these increases during 2015 was a decrease in other corporate costs of $4.9 million. Human resource costs increased primarily due to additional resources needed to support the growth of our business and from the inclusion of Smart Tuition, MicroEdge and WhippleHill personnel. The increases in infrastructure and acquisition-related expenses and integration costs were primarily due to our acquisitions of Smart Tuition and MicroEdge. The increase in stock-based compensation expense was primarily attributable to a change in timing of certain annual equity award grants, whereby annual grants that would have otherwise been made in 2013 were instead made during 2014, as well as the impact of new equity award grants in the current year to certain senior management hires. There was no change in the timing of annual equity award grants in the current year when compared to the prior year. 2014 vs. 2013 General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue remained relatively unchanged during 2014 when compared to 2013. General and administrative expense increased during 2014 when compared to 2013 primarily due to increases in human resource and facilities costs and acquisition-related costs of $9.1 million, $4.5 million, and $1.3 million, respectively. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in third-party contractor fees and other corporate costs of $1.3 million and $6.9 million. Human resource costs increased primarily due to additional resources needed to support the growth of our business and the inclusion of WhippleHill and MicroEdge. The increases in facilities and acquisition-related expenses were due to our acquisitions of WhippleHill and MicroEdge. The decrease in third-party contractor fees was primarily attributable to one-time costs incurred during 2013 for the implementation of certain back-office systems as well as our CEO search. Included in the overall increase in general and administrative expense during 2014 compared to 2013 was more than $0.7 million related to our 2014 incremental operating investments targeted to optimize our back-office infrastructure. Restructuring Restructuring costs consist primarily of severance and termination benefits associated with the realignment of our workforce in response to changes in the nonprofit industry and global economy, as well as the transition of most of our San Diego, California operations to our Austin, Texas location. We incurred $3.2 million in before-tax restructuring charges related to the realignment of our workforce during 2013. The amount we incurred in before-tax restructuring charges related to our San Diego office transition during 2013 was insignificant. 46 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Interest expense Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 Change 2013 Interest expense $ 8.1 35.0 % $ 6.0 3.4 % $ 5.8 % of total revenue 1.3 % 1.1 % 1.2 % 2015 vs. 2014 Interest expense increased during 2015 when compared to 2014 primarily due to an increase in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisitions of Smart Tuition in October 2015 and MicroEdge in October 2014. In the near term, we expect interest expense, as well as interest expense as a percentage of revenue, to increase as a result of our acquisition of Smart Tuition. 2014 vs. 2013 Interest expense remained relatively unchanged when comparing 2014 to 2013. Our interest expense for 2014 and 2013 was directly related to the borrowings we incurred to fund our acquisitions of Convio, Inc. ("Convio"), WhippleHill and MicroEdge. Deferred revenue The table below compares the components of deferred revenue from our consolidated balance sheets: (dollars in millions) Timing of recognition December 31, 2015 Change December 31, 2014 Subscriptions Over the period billed in advance, generally one year $ 122.5 24.7 % $ 98.2 Maintenance Over the period billed in advance, generally one year 85.9 (7.4 )% 92.8 Services As services are delivered 28.5 (3.4 )% 29.5 License fees and other Upon delivery of the solution or service 0.4 (50.0 )% 0.8 Total deferred revenue (1) 237.3 7.2 % 221.3 Less: Long-term portion 7.1 (21.1 )% 9.0 Current portion (1) $ 230.2 8.4 % $ 212.3 (1) The individual amounts for each year may not sum to total deferred revenue or current portion of deferred revenue due to rounding. To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue. We generally invoice our maintenance and subscription customers in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of the contract term. Deferred revenue attributable to subscriptions increased during 2015 when compared to 2014 primarily as a result of the inclusion of Smart Tuition and an increase in subscription sales. The decreases in deferred revenue attributable to maintenance, services and license fees and other during 2015 was primarily due to the continuing shift in our go-to-market strategy towards cloud-based subscription offerings which do not require maintenance contracts and, in general, require less implementation services than our traditional on-premises license arrangements. We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue from customer arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recorded deferred revenue as of the acquisition date than the actual amounts paid in advance for solutions and services under those customer arrangements. Therefore, our deferred revenue after an acquisition will not reflect the full amount of deferred revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value. 2015 Form 10-K 47 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Income tax provision Our effective income tax rates, including the effects of period-specific events, were: Years ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Effective tax rate 30.6 % 27.9 % 32.8 % Our effective income tax rate may fluctuate quarterly as a result of factors, including transactions entered into, changes in the geographic distribution of our earnings or losses, our assessment of certain tax contingencies, valuation allowances, and changes in tax law in jurisdictions where we conduct business. We have deferred tax assets for federal, state, and international net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards are subject to various Internal Revenue Code limitations and applicable state tax laws. A portion of the foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards and a portion of state tax credits have a valuation reserve due to the uncertainty of realizing such carryforwards and credits in the future. We file income tax returns in the U.S. for federal and various state jurisdictions as well as in foreign jurisdictions including Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, and Ireland. We are generally subject to U.S. federal income tax examination for calendar tax years ending 2012 through 2015, as well as state and foreign income tax examinations for various years depending on statute of limitations of those jurisdictions. We have taken federal and state tax positions for which it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits may decrease within the next twelve months. The possible decrease could result from the expiration of statutes of limitations. The reasonably possible decrease at December 31, 2015 was insignificant. The U.S. federal research and development credits, which had previously expired on December 31, 2011, were reinstated as part of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 enacted in January 2013. This legislation retroactively reinstated and extended the credits from the previous expiration date through December 31, 2013. The 2014 research and development credits were reinstated in December 2014 as part of the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014. The 2015 federal research & development credit was reinstated in December 2015 as part of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015. We recognize accrued interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. 2015 vs. 2014 The increase in our effective income tax rate during 2015 when compared to 2014 was primarily due to a $0.8 million charge to expense from an increase in the state effective tax rate applied to deferred balances as a result of changes in state apportionment rules and a $0.7 million charge to expense as a result of the loss on the sale of RLC. This increase in our effective tax rate was partially offset by an increase in the benefit of the domestic production activities deduction and a reduction in the loss of a foreign subsidiary for which we have determined that a valuation allowance is appropriate. The total amount of unrecognized tax benefit that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate, was $2.3 million and $2.8 million at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , respectively. 2014 vs. 2013 The decrease in our effective tax rate during 2014 when compared to 2013 was primarily due to a benefit of $1.6 million from statute of limitations expiration and a benefit of $0.7 million from a reduction in the state income tax effective rate in the U.S. The decrease was partially offset by a discrete tax benefit for 2012 research and development tax credits recorded in 2013 of $1.9 million . 48 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Non-GAAP financial measures The operating results analyzed below are presented on a non-GAAP basis. We use non-GAAP revenue, non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin internally in analyzing our operational performance. Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, in evaluating our ongoing operational performance. While we believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information, non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies. We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue. In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue under arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue than the contributed purchase price until the related obligations to provide services under such arrangements are fulfilled. Therefore, our GAAP revenues after the acquisitions will not reflect the full amount of revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value. The non-GAAP measures described below reverse the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-downs so that the full amount of revenue booked by the acquired companies is included, which we believe provides a more accurate representation of a revenue run-rate in a given period and, therefore, will provide more meaningful comparative results in future periods. The non-GAAP financial measures discussed below exclude the impact of certain transactions because we believe they are not directly related to our operating performance in any particular period, but are for our long-term benefit over multiple periods. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business. Calculations of these non-GAAP financial measures, as well as reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable GAAP measures, are as follows: Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 Change 2013 GAAP Revenue $ 637.9 13.0 % $ 564.4 12.0 % $ 503.8 Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Acquisition-related deferred revenue write-down 9.4 51.6 % 6.2 463.6 % 1.1 Non-GAAP revenue (1) $ 647.3 13.4 % $ 570.7 13.0 % $ 504.9 GAAP gross profit $ 333.3 14.5 % $ 291.0 7.3 % $ 271.2 GAAP gross margin 52.2 % 51.6 % 53.8 % Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Acquisition-related deferred revenue write-down 9.4 51.6 % 6.2 463.6 % 1.1 Add: Stock-based compensation expense 3.5 (2.8 )% 3.6 (10.0 )% 4.0 Add: Amortization of intangibles from business combinations 30.0 23.5 % 24.3 10.0 % 22.1 Add: Employee severance 1.5 100.0 % % Add: Acquisition-related integration costs % (100.0 )% 0.8 Subtotal (1) 44.3 29.5 % 34.2 22.1 % 28.0 Non-GAAP gross profit (1) $ 377.7 16.1 % $ 325.2 8.7 % $ 299.1 Non-GAAP gross margin 58.3 % 57.0 % 59.3 % (1) The individual amounts for each year may not sum to non-GAAP revenue, subtotal or non-GAAP gross profit due to rounding. 2015 Form 10-K 49 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2015 Change 2014 Change 2013 GAAP income from operations $ 46.7 0.6 % $ 46.4 (9.9 )% $ 51.5 GAAP operating margin 7.3 % 8.2 % 10.2 % Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Acquisition-related deferred revenue write-down 9.4 51.6 % 6.2 463.6 % 1.1 Add: Stock-based compensation expense 25.2 45.7 % 17.3 2.4 % 16.9 Add: Amortization of intangibles from business combinations 32.2 23.4 % 26.1 6.1 % 24.6 Add: Employee severance 3.2 100.0 % (100.0 )% 0.6 Add: Impairment of capitalized software development costs 0.2 (87.5 )% 1.6 100.0 % Add: Acquisition-related integration costs 1.1 37.5 % 0.8 (55.6 )% 1.8 Add: Acquisition-related expenses 3.9 69.6 % 2.3 100.0 % Add: CEO transition costs (100.0 )% 0.9 (30.8 )% 1.3 Add: Restructuring costs % (100.0 )% 3.5 Subtotal (1) 75.2 36.0 % 55.3 11.3 % 49.7 Non-GAAP income from operations (1) $ 122.0 20.0 % $ 101.7 0.4 % $ 101.3 Non-GAAP operating margin 18.8 % 17.8 % 20.1 % GAAP net income $ 25.6 (9.5 )% $ 28.3 (7.2 )% $ 30.5 Shares used in computing GAAP diluted earnings per share 46,498,704 1.5 % 45,799,874 0.8 % 45,421,140 GAAP diluted earnings per share $ 0.55 (11.3 )% $ 0.62 (7.5 )% $ 0.67 Non-GAAP adjustments: Add: Total Non-GAAP adjustments affecting loss from operations 75.2 36.0 % 55.3 11.3 % 49.7 Add: Loss on sale of business 2.0 100.0 % % Add: Loss on debt extinguishment and termination of derivative instruments (100.0 )% 1.0 100.0 % Less: Tax impact related to Non-GAAP adjustments (33.2 ) 26.2 % (26.3 ) 18.5 % (22.2 ) Non-GAAP net income (1) $ 69.6 19.4 % $ 58.3 0.5 % $ 58.0 Shares used in computing Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share 46,498,704 1.5 % 45,799,874 0.8 % 45,421,140 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share $ 1.50 18.1 % $ 1.27 (0.8 )% $ 1.28 (1) The individual amounts for each year may not sum to subtotal, non-GAAP income from operations or non-GAAP net income due to rounding. 50 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) As announced at our 2015 Investor Day, beginning in 2016 , we intend to update the non-GAAP tax rate we apply to the aggregate of the non-GAAP adjustments discussed above, which will impact the tax impact related to non-GAAP adjustments, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share measures in future periods. Historically, for the purposes of determining non-GAAP net income, we have utilized a non-GAAP tax rate of 39.0% in our calculation of the tax impact related to non-GAAP adjustments. At Investor Day, we previously communicated that we would be adjusting this rate to 36.0% to better reflect our periodic effective tax rate calculated in accordance with GAAP and our then current expectations related to tax rate impacting legislation such as the domestic production activities deduction and certain credits which are recurring in nature. Subsequent to that Investor Day communication, the business research and development tax credit was permanently extended. As a result, for the purposes of determining non-GAAP net income in 2016 , we now intend to utilize a 32.0% non-GAAP tax rate in our calculation of the tax impact related to non-GAAP adjustments. The non-GAAP tax rate utilized in future periods will be reviewed annually to determine whether it remains appropriate in consideration of our financial results including our periodic effective tax rate calculated in accordance with GAAP, our operating environment and related tax legislation in effect and other factors deemed necessary. All measures of the tax impact related to non-GAAP adjustments, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share included above are calculated under our historical methodology. 2015 vs. 2014 The increases in non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margins during 2015 when compared to 2014 were primarily due to the growth in subscriptions revenue and the incremental revenue from acquired companies as discussed above, partially offset by increases in human resource costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services and IT infrastructure costs. Also contributing to the increases in non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margins were the realization of benefits from certain incremental investments made during 2014 that were targeted to drive the success of our five growth strategies including gains in efficiency and scalability. While we continue to invest in these strategies, the amount of certain investments has decreased in 2015 when compared to 2014. 2014 vs. 2013 The modest increase in non-GAAP income from operations and the decrease in non-GAAP operating margin during 2014 when compared to 2013 were primarily due to the 2014 incremental operating investments targeted to drive the success of our then current five growth strategies. Also contributing to the decrease in non-GAAP operating margin during 2014 was a prospective change from net to gross presentation for revenue and costs associated with our payment processing services as a result of certain third-party arrangements that had changes in contractual terms effective October 2013. While this change in presentation affected our non-GAAP operating margin by approximately 1.0% during 2014, the dollar amount of non-GAAP income from operations was unaffected. Non-GAAP organic revenue growth In addition, we discuss non-GAAP organic revenue growth and non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis. We use these measures internally in analyzing our operational performance because we believe they provide useful information for evaluating the periodic growth of our business on a consistent basis. Non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year. For companies acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, non-GAAP organic revenue growth reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and it includes the current period non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP. In addition, non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes prior period revenue associated with divested businesses in the current fiscal year. The exclusion of the prior period revenue is to present the results of the divested businesses within the results of the combined company for the same period of time in both the prior and current periods. We believe this presentation provides a more comparable representation of its current business organic revenue growth and revenue run-rate. 2015 Form 10-K 51 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2015 Calculations of non-GAAP organic revenue growth and non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis for the full year of 2015, as well as reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable GAAP measures, are as follows: Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 GAAP revenue $ 637.9 13.0 % $ 564.4 (Less) Add: Non-GAAP acquisition-related revenue (1) (0.9 ) 37.4 Less: Revenue from divested businesses (2) (1.3 ) Total Non-GAAP adjustments (0.9 ) 36.2 Non-GAAP revenue (3) $ 637.1 6.1 % $ 600.6 Foreign currency impact on Non-GAAP revenue (4) 9.6 Non-GAAP revenue on constant currency basis (4) $ 646.7 7.7 % $ 600.6 (1) Non-GAAP acquisition-related revenue excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue calculated in accordance with GAAP that is attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year. For companies acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, non-GAAP acquisition-related revenue reflects presentation of full-year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies, as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and it includes the current period non-GAAP revenue from the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-down attributable to those companies. (2) For businesses divested in the current fiscal year, non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes a portion of the prior year period revenue associated with businesses divested of in the current fiscal year. The exclusion of the prior period revenue is to present the results of the divested business with the results of the combined company for the same period of time in both the prior and current periods. (3) Non-GAAP revenue for the prior year periods presented herein will not agree to non-GAAP revenue presented in the respective prior period quarterly financial information solely due to the manner in which non-GAAP organic revenue growth is calculated. (4) To determine non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis, revenues from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated to U.S. Dollars using the comparable prior period's quarterly weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. The primary foreign currencies creating the impact are the Canadian Dollar, EURO, British Pound and Australian Dollar. Non-GAAP organic revenue growth and non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis during 2015 was primarily due to the growth in subscriptions revenue as well as contributions from our acquisitions of WhippleHill in June 2014 and MicroEdge in October 2014, each of which were accretive to our non-GAAP organic revenue growth rate. To a lesser extent, growth in services revenue also contributed to non-GAAP organic revenue growth and non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis. 2014 As a result of third-party contractual changes, subscriptions revenues and costs associated with certain of our payment processing services are presented on a gross basis since October 2013, whereas comparable revenues and costs are presented on a net basis in the prior periods. Therefore, in addition to above discussion of how we calculate non-GAAP organic growth for 2015, to calculate non-GAAP organic revenue growth for 2014, non-GAAP revenue for the first through third quarters of fiscal 2013 reflects presentation of revenue specifically associated with certain of our payment processing services, as if the change in presentation effective October 1, 2013 from a net basis to a gross basis, as previously reported, had instead occurred on January 1, 2013. 52 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Calculations of non-GAAP organic revenue growth for the full year of 2014, as well as reconciliations of that non-GAAP measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure, are as follows: Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2014 Change 2013 GAAP revenue $ 564.4 12.0 % $ 503.8 Less: GAAP acquisition-related revenue (1) (10.4 ) Add: Payments revenue from net-to-gross presentation change (2) 13.7 Total Non-GAAP adjustments (10.4 ) 13.7 Non-GAAP revenue $ 554.0 7.1 % $ 517.5 (1) The calculation excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue calculated in accordance with GAAP that is attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year. (2) The calculation reflects gross presentation of revenues associated with certain payment processing services throughout 2013, as if the change in presentation was effective January 2013, instead of effective October 2013 as previously discussed. Non-GAAP organic revenue growth during 2014 was primarily due to the growth in subscriptions revenue and, to a lesser extent, growth in maintenance revenue. Seasonality Our revenues normally fluctuate as a result of certain seasonal variations in our business. Our revenue from professional services has historically been lower in the first quarter when many of those services commence and in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. In addition, our transaction revenue has historically been at its lowest in the first quarter due to the timing of customer fundraising initiatives and events. Our revenue from payment processing services has also historically increased during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving. As a result of these and other factors, our total revenue has historically been lower in the first quarter than in the remainder of our fiscal year, with the third and fourth quarters historically achieving the highest total revenues. Our expenses, however, do not vary significantly as a result of these factors, but do fluctuate on a quarterly basis due to varying timing of expenditures. Our cash flow from operations normally fluctuates quarterly due to the combination of the timing of customer contract renewals including renewals associated with customers of acquired companies, delivery of professional services and occurrence of customer events, the payment of bonuses, as well as merit-based salary increases, among other factors. Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter, and due to the timing of customer budget cycles, our cash flow from operations has been lower in our second quarter as compared to our third and fourth quarters. Partially offsetting these favorable drivers of cash flow from operations in our third and fourth quarters are merit-based salary increases, which are generally effective in April each year. In addition, deferred revenues can vary on a seasonal basis for the same reasons. These patterns may change, however, as a result of the continued shift to online giving, growth in volume of transactions for which we process payments, acquisitions, new market opportunities, new solution introductions or other factors. Liquidity and capital resources The following table presents selected financial information about our financial position: (dollars in millions) December 31, 2015 Change December 31, 2014 Cash and cash equivalents $ 15.4 4.8 % $ 14.7 Property and equipment, net 52.7 5.6 % 49.9 Software development costs, net 19.6 108.5 % 9.4 Total carrying value of debt 408.6 45.6 % 280.6 Working capital (167.2 ) 25.5 % (133.2 ) Working capital excluding deferred revenue 63.0 (20.4 )% 79.1 2015 Form 10-K 53 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) The following table presents selected financial information about our cash flows: Years ended December 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 Change 2013 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 114.3 11.7 % $ 102.3 (4.6 )% $ 107.2 Net cash used in investing activities (222.7 ) 5.3 % (211.4 ) 773.6 % (24.2 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 110.4 (1.4 )% 112.0 (232.9 )% (84.3 ) Our principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flow, funds available under the 2014 Credit Facility and cash on hand. Our operating cash flow depends on continued customer renewal of our subscription, maintenance and support arrangements and market acceptance of our solutions and services. Based on current estimates of revenue and expenses, we believe that the currently available sources of funds and anticipated cash flows from operations will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to finance our operations, fund anticipated capital expenditures, meet our debt obligations and pay dividends. Dividend payments are not guaranteed and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, at any time and for any reason, not to declare and pay further dividends and/or repurchase our common stock. To the extent we undertake future material acquisitions, investments or unanticipated capital expenditures, we may require additional capital. In that context, we regularly evaluate opportunities to enhance our capital structure including through potential debt issuances. At December 31, 2015 , our total cash and cash equivalents balance included approximately $5.9 million of cash that was held by operations outside the U.S. While these funds may not be needed to fund our U.S. operations for at least the next twelve months, if we need these funds, we may be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate the funds. We currently do not intend nor anticipate a need to repatriate our cash held outside the U.S. Operating cash flow Throughout 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , our cash flows from operations were derived principally from: (i) our earnings from on-going operations prior to non-cash expenses such as depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, loss on sale of business, impairment of capitalized software development costs, loss on debt extinguishment and termination of derivative instruments, amortization of deferred financing costs and debt discount and adjustments to our provision for sales returns and allowances; and (ii) changes in our working capital. Working capital changes are composed of changes in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and deferred revenue. 2015 vs. 2014 Cash flow from operations associated with working capital decreased $5.9 million during 2015 when compared to 2014, primarily due to: an increase in current year bonus payments from a prior year change in the timing of payouts for certain bonus plans, from quarterly to annually, partially offset by an increase in amounts accrued for current year performance against current year targets; a decrease in the growth rate of deferred revenue which was primarily attributable to the fair value of acquired deferred revenues and billing cycles of acquired companies, partially offset by fluctuations in the timing of vendor payments; and a reduction in cash taxes paid. 54 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2014 vs. 2013 Cash flow from operations associated with working capital increased $10.3 million in 2014 when compared to 2013. The net working capital increase was primarily due to: a change in the timing of payouts for certain bonus plans, from quarterly to annually; an increase in deferred revenue from growth in subscriptions; increases in accrued commissions and salaries; and fluctuations in the timing of vendor payments; which were partially offset by an increase in prepaid taxes; and increases in accounts receivable from growth in subscriptions. Investing cash flow During 2016, we expect capital expenditures between $45.0 million and $50.0 million, which includes purchases of property and equipment and estimated cash outlays for capitalized software development costs. Refer to the commitments and contingencies subsection below for future minimum commitments related to purchase obligations. 2015 vs. 2014 Net cash used in investing activities of $222.7 million increased by $11.3 million during 2015, when compared to 2014. During 2015, we had cash outlays of $18.6 million and $15.5 million for purchases of property and equipment and software development costs, respectively, which were up $4.7 million and $6.9 million , respectively, from cash spent during 2014. The increase in cash outlays for property and equipment were primarily driven by investments in our information technology infrastructure, technology platforms and infrastructure used in the delivery of our cloud-based solutions to customers, various facilities upgrades at a number of our U.S. and international locations, as well as incremental property and equipment costs from prior year business acquisitions. The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily driven by development activities related to our Raiser's Edge NXT and Financial Edge NXT cloud-based solutions, development activities for other solutions and the inclusion of software development costs related to solutions historically provided by companies acquired in 2014. During 2015, we used $187.8 million of cash for the acquisition of Smart Tuition compared to $188.9 million used in 2014 for the acquisitions of WhippleHill and MicroEdge. 2014 vs. 2013 During 2014, we used net cash of $188.9 million for the acquisitions of WhippleHill and MicroEdge compared to $0.9 million spent on investments in acquired companies during 2013. Aggregate cash outlays for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs were $22.4 million during 2014, which was relatively unchanged from 2013. Financing cash flow 2015 vs. 2014 During 2015, we had a net increase in borrowings of $127.8 million , which was primarily used to finance the acquisition of Smart Tuition. The excess tax benefit we received from the exercise and vesting of stock-based compensation awards decreased by $2.0 million when comparing 2015 and 2014. Cash outlays related to deferred financing fees decreased in 2015 as we refinanced our credit facility in 2014. Also during 2015, we paid dividends of $22.5 million , which was relatively consistent with the amount paid in 2014. 2015 Form 10-K 55 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2014 vs. 2013 During 2014, we had a net increase in debt of $129.5 million, which was primarily used to finance the acquisition of MicroEdge, and we received an excess tax benefit of $7.5 million from the exercise of stock-based compensation awards. Cash outlays related to deferred financing costs increased $3.0 million during 2014 when compared to 2013 as a result of refinancing our credit facility. Also during 2014, we paid dividends of $22.1 million, which was relatively consistent with the amount paid in 2013. 2014 Credit Facility We have drawn on our five-year $325.0 million credit facility (the "2014 Credit Facility") from time to time to help us meet financial needs, such as financing for business acquisitions. At December 31, 2015 , our available borrowing capacity under the 2014 Credit Facility was $103.7 million . We believe the 2014 Credit Facility will provide us with sufficient flexibility to meet our future financial needs. The 2014 Credit Facility matures in February 2019. At December 31, 2015 , the carrying amount of our debt under the 2014 Credit Facility was $408.6 million . Our average daily borrowings were $303.8 million during 2015 . Following is a summary of the financial covenants under the 2014 Credit Facility: Financial Covenant Requirement Ratio as of December 31, 2015 Net Leverage Ratio 3.50 to 1.00 2.76 to 1.00 Interest Coverage Ratio 2.50 to 1.00 17.11 to 1.00 Under the 2014 Credit Facility, we also have restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends and our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock. In order to pay any cash dividends and/or repurchase shares of stock: (i) no default or event of default shall have occurred and be continuing under the 2014 Credit Facility, and (ii) our pro forma net leverage ratio, as set forth in the credit agreement, must be 0.25 less than the net leverage ratio requirement at the time of dividend declaration or share repurchase. At December 31, 2015 , we were in compliance with all debt covenants under the 2014 Credit Facility. Financing for MicroEdge acquisition We financed the acquisition of MicroEdge through cash on hand and borrowings under the 2014 Credit Facility. As previously disclosed, in February 2014, we entered into the 2014 Credit Facility in an aggregate principal amount of $325 million, with an option to request increases in the revolving commitments and/or request additional term loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $200.0 million. On October 1, 2014, we exercised this option, and certain lenders agreed, to increase the revolving credit commitments by $100.0 million (the "October 2014 Additional Revolving Credit Commitments") such that for the period commencing October 1, 2014 through July 17, 2015, the aggregate revolving credit commitments that were available was $250.0 million. The October 2014 Additional Revolving Credit Commitments have the same terms as the existing revolving credit commitments. On October 1, 2014, we drew down $140.0 million in revolving credit commitments under the 2014 Credit Facility to finance the acquisition of MicroEdge. Financing for Smart Tuition acquisition On July 17, 2015, we again exercised this option and certain lenders agreed to increase the revolving credit commitments by an additional $100.0 million (the "July 2015 Additional Revolving Credit Commitments") such that for the period commencing July 17, 2015, the aggregate revolving credit commitments available were $350.0 million. The July 2015 Additional Revolving Credit Commitments have the same terms as the existing revolving credit commitments. On October 2, 2015, we drew down a $186.0 million revolving credit loan under the 2014 Credit Facility to finance the acquisition of Smart Tuition. 56 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Entry into interest rate swap agreement In October 2015, we entered into an additional interest rate swap agreement (the "October 2015 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under the 2014 Credit Facility to a fixed rate for the term of the October 2015 Swap Agreement. The notional value of the October 2015 Swap Agreement was $75.0 million with an effective date beginning in October 2015 and maturing in February 2018. We designated the October 2015 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract. Commitments and contingencies As of December 31, 2015 , we had contractual obligations with future minimum commitments as follows: Payments due by period (dollars in millions) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Recorded contractual obligations: Debt (1) $ 410.2 $ 4.4 $ 8.7 $ 397.1 $ Interest payments on debt (2) 0.7 0.7 Unrecorded contractual obligations: Operating leases (3) 97.3 14.6 26.1 24.3 32.3 Interest payments on debt (4) 27.7 8.8 17.6 1.3 Purchase obligations (5) 19.0 7.8 9.1 2.1 Total contractual obligations $ 554.9 $ 36.3 $ 61.5 $ 424.8 $ 32.3 (1) Represents principal payments only, under the following assumptions: (i) that the amounts outstanding under the 2014 Credit Facility at December 31, 2015 will remain outstanding until maturity, with minimum payments occurring as currently scheduled, and (ii) that there are no assumed future borrowings on the 2014 Credit Facility for the purposes of determining minimum commitment amounts. (2) Represents interest payment obligations related to our interest rate swap agreements. (3) Our commitments related to operating leases have not been reduced by incentive payments and reimbursement of leasehold improvements. (4) The actual interest expense recognized in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income will depend on the amount of debt, the length of time the debt is outstanding and the interest rate, which could be different from our assumptions described in (1) above. (5) We utilize third-party technology in conjunction with our solutions and services, with contractual arrangements varying in length from one to five years. In certain cases, these arrangements require a minimum annual purchase commitment by us. The term loan under the 2014 Credit Facility requires periodic principal payments. The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2014 Credit Facility in February 2019. The total liability for uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , was $3.0 million and $3.6 million , respectively. Our accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was insignificant as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 . In February 2016 , our Board of Directors approved our annual dividend rate of $0.48 per share to be made in quarterly payments. Dividends at this annual rate would aggregate to $22.6 million assuming 47.0 million shares of our common stock are outstanding, although dividends are not guaranteed and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, to change or suspend dividend payments at any time for any reason. Our ability to continue to declare and pay dividends quarterly this year and beyond might be restricted by, among other things, the terms of the 2014 Credit Facility, general economic conditions and our ability to generate adequate operating cash flow. In February 2016 , our Board of Directors declared a first quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on March 15, 2016 to stockholders of record on February 26, 2016 . Off-balance sheet arrangements As of December 31, 2015 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. 2015 Form 10-K 57 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Foreign currency exchange rates Approximately 11% of our total revenue for 2015 was derived from operations outside the U.S. We do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly inflationary. Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, changes in the exchange rate between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of our subsidiaries financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. The accumulated currency translation adjustment, recorded within other comprehensive loss as a component of stockholders equity, was a loss of $0.8 million and $0.9 million as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , respectively. The vast majority of our contracts are entered into by our U.S. or U.K. entities. The contracts entered into by the U.S. entity are almost always denominated in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars, and contracts entered into by our U.K., Australian and Irish subsidiaries are generally denominated in Pounds Sterling, Australian dollars and Euros, respectively. Historically, as the U.S. dollar weakened, foreign currency translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Conversely, as the U.S. dollar strengthened, foreign currency translation resulted in a decrease in our revenue and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. During 2015 , foreign translation resulted in a decrease in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Though we have exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily those between the U.S. dollar and Canadian dollar, the impact has generally not been material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position. During 2015 , however, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates reduced our total revenue and income from operations by approximately $9.6 million and $3.7 million, respectively. We will continue monitoring such exposure and take action as appropriate. To determine the impacts on total revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. These impacts are non-GAAP financial information and are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our costs were to become subject to significant inflationary pressures, we may not be able to fully offset such higher costs through price increases. Our inability or failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if inflationary pressures impact the rate of giving to our customers, there could be adverse impacts to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Critical accounting estimates Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, we reconsider and evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those that impact revenue recognition, long-lived and intangible assets including goodwill, income taxes, and business combinations, among others. We base our estimates on historical experience, current trends and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could materially differ from any of our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements in this report. We believe the accounting estimates listed below are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, and they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, resulting from the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. 58 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Revenue Recognition Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements in this report for a complete discussion of our revenue recognition policies. We recognize revenue when all of the following conditions are met: (1) Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) The solutions or services have been delivered; (3) The fee is fixed or determinable; and (4) Collection of the resulting receivable is probable. To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of meeting each of the conditions above, we record such amounts in deferred revenue. Our revenue recognition accounting methodology contains uncertainties because it requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions, and to apply judgment. For example, for arrangements that have multiple elements and include software licenses, we must exercise judgment and use estimates in order to (1) allocate the total price among the various elements we must deliver; (2) determine whether undelivered services are essential to the functionality of the delivered solutions and services; (3) determine whether vendor specific objective evidence ("VSOE") of fair value exists for each undelivered element; and (4) determine whether and when each element has been delivered. For arrangements that have multiple elements and do not include software licenses, we must exercise judgment and use estimates in order to (1) determine whether and when each element has been delivered; (2) determine the fair value of each element using the selling price hierarchy of VSOE of fair value if available, third-party evidence ("TPE") if VSOE is not available, and best estimate of selling price ("BESP") if neither VSOE nor TPE is available; and (3) allocate the total price among the various elements based on the relative selling price method. In addition, we exercise judgment in certain transactions when determining whether we should recognize revenue based on the gross amount billed to a customer (as a principle) or the net amount retained (as an agent). These judgments are based on the predominant weighting of factors identified in accounting guidance. If we were to change any of these judgments or estimates, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue or deferred revenue that we report in a particular period. Business Combinations Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions We allocate the purchase price of an acquired business to its identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date based upon their estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the amount allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, if any, is recorded as goodwill. We use available information to estimate fair values. We typically engage outside appraisal firms to assist in the fair value determination of long-lived and identifiable intangible assets, and any other significant assets or liabilities. We adjust the preliminary purchase price allocation, as necessary, up to one year after the acquisition closing date as we obtain new information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the closing date. Our purchase price allocation methodology contains uncertainties because it requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions, and to apply judgment to estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, especially with respect to long-lived and intangible assets. Management estimates the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on quoted market prices, the carrying value of the acquired assets and widely accepted valuation techniques, including discounted cash flows and market multiple analyses. Critical estimates in valuing intangible assets include, but are not limited to, estimates about: future expected cash flows from customer contracts and relationships, proprietary technology and non-compete agreements; the acquired company's brand awareness and market position, the market awareness of the acquired company's branded technology solutions and services, assumptions about the period of time the brands will continue to be valuable; as well as expected costs to develop any in-process research and development into commercially viable solutions and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed, and discount rates. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur. If actual results are materially different than the assumptions we used to determine fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed through a business combination as well as the estimated useful lives of the acquired intangible assets, it is possible that adjustments to the carrying values of such assets and liabilities will have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in this report for information regarding our significant acquisitions. 2015 Form 10-K 59 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Income Taxes Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions We make estimates and judgments in accounting for income taxes. Our income tax returns, like those of most companies, are periodically audited by domestic and foreign tax authorities. We measure and recognize uncertain tax positions. To recognize uncertain tax positions we must first determine if it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon audit. We must then measure the benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We make estimates in determining tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial reporting purposes. We record valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The calculation of our income tax provision requires estimates due to transactions, credits and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Uncertainties arise as a consequence of the actual source of taxable income between domestic and foreign locations, the outcome of tax audits and the ultimate utilization of tax credits. Our effective income tax rate is also affected by changes in the geographic distribution of our earnings or losses, changes in tax law in jurisdictions where we conduct business. Significant judgment is required in the identification and measurement of uncertain tax positions. Our liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures associated with our various filing positions. In assessing the adequacy of a recorded valuation allowance significant judgment is required. We consider all positive and negative evidence and a variety of factors including the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, historical and projected future taxable income, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Although we believe that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable, actual results could differ, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. To the extent actual results differ from estimated amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax provision in the period in which the determination is made. If we determine there is less than a 50% likelihood that we will be able to use a deferred tax asset in the future in excess of its net carrying value, then an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance is made to increase income tax expense, thereby reducing net income in the period such determination was made. Long-lived and Intangible Assets including Goodwill Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions We review our long-lived and identifiable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If such events or changes in circumstances occur, we use the undiscounted cash flow method to determine whether the asset is impaired. To the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted cash flows over the estimated remaining life of the asset, we measure the impairment using discounted cash flows. Goodwill is assigned to our three reporting units, which are defined as our three operating segments (see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements in this report). We test goodwill for impairment annually during our fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. In general, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. To the extent the qualitative factors indicate that the fair value is likely less than the carrying amount, we compare the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount. We estimate fair value for each reporting unit based on projected future cash flows discounted using our weighted average cost of capital. If the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, impairment is indicated. If an impairment is indicated, the impairment loss is measured as the excess of the recorded goodwill over its fair value. We review our long-lived and identifiable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If such events or changes in circumstances occur, we use the undiscounted cash flow method to determine whether the asset is impaired. To the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted cash flows over the estimated remaining life of the asset, we measure the impairment using discounted cash flows. Goodwill is assigned to our three reporting units, which are defined as our three operating segments (see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements in this report). We test goodwill for impairment annually during our fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. In general, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. To the extent the qualitative factors indicate that the fair value is likely less than the carrying amount, we compare the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount. We estimate fair value for each reporting unit based on projected future cash flows discounted using our weighted average cost of capital. If the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, impairment is indicated. If an impairment is indicated, the impairment loss is measured as the excess of the recorded goodwill over its fair value. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology we use to assess impairment loss during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded insignificant impairment charges against previously capitalized software development costs. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded impairment charges of $1.6 million against certain previously capitalized software development costs. The charges reduced the carrying value of those costs to zero. The impairment charges resulted from obtaining software solutions through the acquisitions of Smart Tuition in 2015 and WhippleHill in 2014 and determining that it was no longer probable that certain computer software that was being developed would be placed into service. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to assess impairment losses. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to an impairment charge that could materially adversely impact our consolidated financial position and results of operations. 60 2015 Form 10-K Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) Recently issued accounting pronouncements For a discussion of the impact that recently issued accounting pronouncements are expected to have on our financial position and results of operations when adopted in the future, see Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements in this report. 2015 Form 10-K 61 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc.