managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations disclosures; being exempt from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; being subject to reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and not being required to hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation or on any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, while we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with any new financial accounting standard until such standard is generally applicable to private companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that are not emerging growth companies or elect not to avail themselves of this provision. We may remain an emerging growth company until as late as December 31, 2027, the fiscal year-end following the fifth anniversary of the completion of this initial public offering, though we may cease to be an emerging growth company earlier under certain circumstances, including if (i) we have more than $1.07 billion in annual revenue in any fiscal year, (ii) we become a large accelerated filer, with at least $700 million of equity securities held by non-affiliates as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year, or (iii) we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period. 23 Table of Contents The exact implications of the JOBS Act are still subject to interpretations and guidance by the SEC and other regulatory agencies, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to take advantage of all of the benefits of the JOBS Act. In addition, investors may find our common stock less attractive to the extent we rely on the exemptions and relief granted by the JOBS Act. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may decline or become more volatile. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. We are required to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until the date we are no longer an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. Accordingly, you will not be able to depend on any attestation concerning our internal control over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm for the foreseeable future. The process of designing and implementing internal controls over financial reporting is time consuming, costly, and complicated. If during the evaluation and testing process, we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or determine that existing material weaknesses have not been remediated, our management will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may conclude that there are material weaknesses with respect to our internal controls or the level at which our internal controls are documented, designed, implemented, or reviewed. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or when required in the future, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the valuation of our common stock could be adversely affected. Compliance with public reporting requirements have and will continue to affect the Companys financial resources. The Company is subject to certain public reporting obligations as required by federal securities laws, regulations and agencies. The compliance with such reporting requirements will require the company to incur significant legal, accounting and other administrative expenses. The expenses the Company may incur will have a significant impact on the Companys financial resources and may lead to a decrease in the value and price of our common stock. We rely on network infrastructure and our ability to maintain and scale our business and maintain competitiveness. Any significant interruptions or delays in service on our apps or websites or any undetected errors or design faults could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the use of information technologies and systems and our reputation and ability to acquire, retain, and serve our customers are dependent upon the reliable performance of our apps and websites and the underlying network infrastructure. As our operations grow, we must continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure while maintaining or improving the reliability and integrity of our infrastructure. Our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our systems and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our solutions in response to competitive services and offerings. We expect the use of alternative platforms such as tablets and smartphones will continue to grow and the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize offerings, services, or strategies for such platforms will require new investment in technology. New developments in other areas, such as cloud computing, have made it easier for competition to enter our markets due to lower up-front technology costs. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. There is also no guarantee that we will possess the financial resources or personnel, for the research, design, and development of new applications or services, or that we will be able to utilize these resources successfully and avoid technological or market obsolescence. Further, there can be no assurance that technological advances by one or more of our competitors or future competitors will not result in our present or future applications and services becoming uncompetitive or obsolete. If we were unable to enhance our offerings and network capabilities to keep pace with rapid technological and regulatory change, or if new technologies emerge that are able to deliver competitive offerings at lower prices, more efficiently, more conveniently, or more securely than our platform offerings, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity Risk Management & Strategy We employ several strategies to identify and to mitigate its cybersecurity risk as a part of it overall risk management strategy. Whereas no entity can be 100% secure against all forms of cyber threats. We strive to identify and minimize the risk where possible. Company management under the direction of its Chief Technology Officer are primarily responsible for identifying risks and adopting appropriate policies with respect to those risks. Third parties may be used to augment company resources in this regard including but not limited to resources provided by the Companys cyber policy insurance carrier. Risks that are specific to the Companys operations include security around the servers and systems that are used to host and run the Blackbox System. These servers including their backups are hosted remotely and monitored throughout the day by both operations and technology personnel. The Company has adopted a comprehensive Cyber Security Policy that encompasses and addresses cyber risks that are more common to many businesses including system access, password policies, third party software and similar matters. Blackbox also carries appropriate insurance for cyber related risks. Governance Overall governance of our cybersecurity is overseen by the Companys full board of directors. No specific committee exists to oversee cybersecurity. Brandon Smith, our Chief Technology Officer, is primarily responsible for managing the Companys cybersecurity risks and related policies. Mr. Smith has over 20 years of experience in technology including software development and infrastructure consulting. In addition to an MBA from Southern Methodist University, Mr. Smith holds a BBA in CIS from Texas State University. Management meets with the board not less than annually to review the companys cybersecurity risks and policies but will meet with the board on an immediate basis if circumstances so dictate. Item 2. Properties. We do not own any real estate or other physical properties. Our principal office is located at 5430 LBJ Freeway, Suite 1485, Dallas, Texas 75240 in office space leased from Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America. During the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 we incurred approximately $126,000 and $103,000, respectively, in office rental expense. Future minimum rental payments under the extended lease are approximately $441,851. We believe that the existing facilities at March 28, 2024, will be adequate to meet our operational requirements through 2024. We believe that all such facilities are adequately covered by appropriate property insurance. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. The information set forth in Note 9, "Commitments and Contingencies" of the notes to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K relating to our legal proceedings is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 25 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our Common Stock, $0.001 par value, began trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market on November 9, 2021 under the symbol BLBX. Holders Records of Securities Transfer Corporation, our transfer agent, indicate that as of March 28, 2024, we had 618 record holders of our Common Stock. The number of registered stockholders excludes any estimate by us of the number of beneficial owners of shares of Common Stock held in street name. As of March 28, 2024, we had 3,226,145 shares of our Common Stock issued and outstanding. Dividends We have not declared any dividends on our Common Stock and do not anticipate that we will declare or pay any dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, applicable contractual restrictions, restrictions in our organizational documents, and any other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans The information set forth under the subheading "Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans" included in Part III, Item 12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities The Companys sales of unregistered securities during the period covered by the Report have been previously reported as required in Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and/or current reports on Form 8-K. Use of Proceeds of Registered Securities On November 15, 2021, we closed our initial public offering of 2,400,000 shares of common stock at an offering price of $5.00 per share. Alexander Capital, L.P. served as the managing underwriter. We received net proceeds of $10,519,914, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. All of the shares issued and sold in our initial public offering were registered under the Securities Act pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-260065), which was declared effective by the SEC on November 9, 2021. On January 7, 2022 the Companys Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan for up to $2,500,000 of the Companys Common Stock. The program terminated on December 31, 2023. The Company repurchased 693,368 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $1,209,125. This use of proceeds was not anticipated or disclosed in the Companys prospectus. Other than as described above, the proceeds of the public offering have been used as described in the prospectus to promote and market our Blackbox System platform and increase our subscriber base, and for general and administration expenses. 26 Table of Contents Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers The following table sets forth information regarding purchases made under the Companys stock repurchase plan for up to $2,500,000 of the Companys Common Stock. The program was authorized and publicly announced on January 7, 2022 and terminated on December 31, 2023. . The following purchases were made in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchase under the Plans or Programs October 1, 2023 through October 31, 2023 4,407 $ 2.24 692,168 $ 0 November 1, 2023 through November 30, 2023 2,300 $ 2.02 693,368 $ 0 December 1, 2023 through December 31, 2023 0 $ N/A 693,368 $ 0 Total 693,368 $ 1.74 693,368 $ 0 Item 6. [Reserved] Not required. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the results of financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 should be read in conjunction with our financial statements, and the notes to those financial statements that are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our discussion includes forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors. We use words such as anticipate, estimate, plan, project, continuing, ongoing, expect, believe, intend, may, will, should, could, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Key Events and Recent Developments On December 12, 2023, we entered into a Share Exchange Agreement with Evtec Aluminium and the shareholders of Evtec Aluminium (Sellers). Upon the terms and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions described in the Share Exchange Agreement, we expect to acquire all of the issued and outstanding share capital of Evtec Aluminium, with the result of Evtec Aluminium becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. At the closing of the Exchange, the Evtec Aluminium shareholders will receive shares of our common stock in exchange for capital shares of Evtec Aluminium based on the exchange ratio formula in the Share Exchange Agreement. Upon closing of the Exchange, the Evtec Aluminium shareholders are expected to collectively own 73.2% of the aggregate common stock of the Company. See Part I, Item 1 Business Recent Developments. Overview We are a financial technology and social media hybrid platform offering real-time proprietary analytics and news for stock and options traders of all levels. Our web-based software employs predictive technology enhanced by artificial intelligence to find volatility and unusual market activity that may result in the rapid change in the trading price of a stock or option. Our Blackbox System continuously scans the NASDAQ, NYSE, CBOE, and other options markets, analyzing over 10,000 stocks and up to 1,500,000 options contracts multiple times per second. We also provide our users with a fully interactive social media platform that is integrated into our dashboard, enabling our users to exchange information and ideas quickly and efficiently including the ability to broadcast on their own channels to share trading strategies and market insight within the Blackbox community. We launched our platform for domestic use and made it available to subscribers in September 2016. Subscriptions for the use of the platform are sold on a monthly and/or annual subscription basis to individual consumers through our website. 27 Table of Contents Our principal office is located at 5430 LBJ Freeway, Suite 1485, Dallas, Texas 75240 and our telephone number is (972) 726-9203. Our Common Stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol BLBX. Our corporate website is located at https://blackboxstocks.com. Basis of Presentation The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in assumption of the continuation of the Company as a going concern, which is dependent upon the Company's ability to obtain sufficient financing or establish itself as a profitable business. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company incurred an operating loss of $5,297,671 and a net loss of $4,664,455 as compared to an operating loss of $4,546,026 and a net loss of $5,019,882 for the year ended December 31, 2022. Cash flows used in operations totaled $3,166,067 for the year ended December 31, 2023. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The Company has executed a Share Exchange Agreement with Evtec Aluminium, whereby the Company expects to acquire all of the issued and outstanding share capital of Evtec Aluminium, with the result of Evtec Aluminium becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The Exchange is expected to be accounted for as a reverse acquisition with Evtec Aluminium being the accounting acquiror. The Company believes that the Exchange with Evtec Aluminium will attract additional capital investment as Evtec Aluminium is substantially larger than Blackbox and has a strong acquisition pipeline. Management has also implemented a number of initiatives aimed at improving operating cash flow including, new product development, revised marketing strategies and expense reductions. In addition, the Company has historically been able to raise debt or equity financing to meet its capital needs and is also evaluating strategic alternatives with respect to possible mergers or acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the Companys operational changes will impact its cash flow or if it will be able to raise additional capital or on what terms or if it will be able to consummate the planned Exchange with Evtec Aluminium. The financial statements do not include adjustments relating to the recoverability and realization of assets and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue in operation. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements During the year ended December 31, 2023 and through March 28, 2024, there were several new accounting pronouncements issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Each of these pronouncements, as applicable, has been or will be adopted by the Company. Management does not believe the adoption of any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. All other new accounting pronouncements issued but not yet effective or adopted have been deemed not to be relevant to us, hence are not expected to have any impact once adopted. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The Companys financial statement preparation requires that management make estimates and assumptions which affect the reporting of assets and liabilities and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in order to report these financial statements in conformity with GAAP. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement, defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and requires certain disclosures about fair value measurements. In general, fair values of financial instruments are based upon quoted market prices, where available. If such quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that primarily use, as inputs, observable market-based parameters. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value. These adjustments may include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality and the customers creditworthiness, among other things, as well as unobservable parameters. Any such valuation adjustments are applied consistently over time. Derivative Financial Instruments FASB ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement requires bifurcation of certain embedded derivative instruments, and measurement at their fair value for accounting purposes. A holder redemption feature embedded in the Companys notes payable requires bifurcation from its host instrument and is accounted for as a freestanding derivative. 28 Table of Contents Software Development Costs The Company accounts for software development costs pursuant to ASC Topic 985-Software, which requires that the costs incurred for planning, designing, coding and testing of software prior to technological feasibility be recorded as research and development expenses as incurred. Such costs include both internal development and engineering costs as well as development expenses contracted through third parties. Income Taxes The Company will recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the differences are expected to be recovered. The Company provides a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for which it does not consider realization of such assets to be more likely than not. Management evaluates the probability of the realization of its deferred income tax assets. Management determined that because the Company has not yet generated taxable income, it is unlikely that a tax benefit will be realized from these operating loss carry forwards. Accordingly, the deferred income tax asset is offset by a full valuation allowance. In accordance with ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, the Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be capable of withstanding examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. These standards prescribe a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Share-Based Payment All share-based payments to employees, directors and contractors, including grants of stock options, restricted shares or warrants, are recognized in the statement of operations based on their fair values at the time of grant in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation. During the period ended December 31, 2022, the Company calculated the fair value of the options granted based on assumptions used in the Cox-Ross-Rubinstein binomial pricing model using the following inputs: the price of the Companys common stock on the date of issuance; risk-free interest rate ranging from 2.72% to 3.37%, expected volatility ranging from 110% to 127% based on the volatility of the Companys common stock, various exercise prices, and terms of 10 years. During the period ended December 31, 2023, the Company calculated the fair value of the options granted based on assumptions used in the Cox-Ross-Rubinstein binomial pricing model using the following inputs: the price of the Companys common stock on the date of issuance; risk-free interest rates ranging from 3.73% to 4.44%, expected volatility ranging from 130% to 140% based on the volatility of the Companys common stock, various exercise prices, and terms of 10 years. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2023, the Company had a combined balance of cash and marketable securities with a total value of $475,652. The Company incurred negative cash flow from operations of $(3,166,067) for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to negative cash flow from operations of $(4,285,039) in the prior year. Cash flows used in investing activities excluding marketable securities were $2,605 and $65,941 for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and were related primarily to the purchase of server equipment and office furniture. With the exception of the liquidation of $3,213,325 of marketable securities consisting of certain debt funds, the purchase and sales of marketable securities was done in a company trading account with less than $100,000 that is used to research and demonstrate certain trading tactics used on our platform. We expect capital expenditures to remain moderate for 2024 in order to maintain our current operations. Cash flows from financing for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $(56,383) and consisted of $28,773 in repayments of debt and $27,650 in purchases of treasury stock. As noted above, the Company may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in order to fund its operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to do so or on what terms. 29 Table of Contents Results of Operations Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Companys revenue was $3,106,026 and $4,959,109, respectively. The decrease of $1,853,023 or 37.4% was driven primarily by a decline in subscribers which we believe to a number of factors including a poor economic environment and an increase in competition from both legitimate competitors and illegitimate competitors. Illegitimate competitors include sites or chat rooms that sell pirated data from companies such as Blackbox. Our average subscriber count for the year ended December 31, 2023 was 3,411 or 37.1% lower than the year ended December 31, 2022. Average monthly revenue per subscriber was $75.88 per month for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to $75.75 for the year ended December 31, 2022. The Company continues to run periodic promotions that offer discounts from our regular monthly subscription of $99.97 and annual subscription price of $959.00. This included a Cyber Monday/Black Friday promotion of a 2-year membership for $1,198 in 2023. Gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $1,439,834 or 46.4% of revenues as compared to 2022 gross margin of $2,878,230 or 58.0% of revenues. The decrease in the gross margin percentage from 2022 to 2023 was due to a lower average revenue per subscriber and poorer fixed cost absorption. The primary costs of operating our platform include data feeds of real time prices from exchanges, news feeds, personnel costs of our moderators as well as general system expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2023, our operating expenses decreased from $7,424,256 in 2022 to $6,737,505 in 2023. This decrease of $686,751 or 9.3% was due to substantially lower software development costs and advertising and marketing expenses. Software development expenses declined by $279,420 as 2022 expenses included expenditures related to the release of our mobile application and an unusually high level of expense related to infrastructure development. We expect our development expenses in 2024 to remain at or below their current level. Advertising and marketing expenses declined by $838,718 in 2023 as compared to 2022. 2023 Advertising and marketing expenses of $629,984 declined as a result of a lack of cost-effective digital marketing opportunities as compared to prior years. We continue to explore different marketing strategies that are more cost effective. Our selling, general and administrative costs increased by $410,705 or 8.7% to $5,140,391 for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase resulted from an increase in stock-based compensation of $1,007,192 and higher legal fees that were only partially offset by lower most other expenses most notably investor and public relations which declined by $342,108. For the year ended December 31, 2023, other income was $633,216 as compared to other expense of $473,856 for the year ended December 31, 2022. The year ended December 31, 2023 included other income of $575,000 related to the extension agreement executed with the Evtec Companies. The primary components of the 2022 expense were interest expense of $98,451 and amortization of debt discount of $46,597 and an investment loss of $328,718. 30 Table of Contents EBITDA (Non-GAAP Financial Measure) We report our financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). However, management believes the presentation of certain non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and that when GAAP financial measures are viewed in conjunction with the non-GAAP financial measures, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of the Companys ongoing operating performance. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for evaluating performance. For all non-GAAP financial measures in this release, we have provided corresponding GAAP financial measures for comparative purposes in the report. EBITDA is defined by us as net income (loss) before interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization expense and certain non-cash. EBITDA is not a measure of operating performance under GAAP and therefore should not be considered in isolation nor construed as an alternative to operating profit, net income (loss) or cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities, each as determined in accordance with GAAP. Also, EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of liquidity. Moreover, since EBITDA is not a measurement determined in accordance with GAAP, and thus is susceptible to varying interpretations and calculations, EBITDA, as presented, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. Reconciliation of net loss to EBITDA Year ended December 31, 2023 2022 Net loss $ (4,664,455 ) $ (5,019,882 ) Adjustments: Interest expense 633 98,541 Investment (income) loss (58,849 ) 328,718 Depreciation and amortization expense 43,410 22,728 Amortization of debt discount - 46,597 Stock based compensation 1,489,652 482,460 Total Adjustments 1,533,695 979,044 EBITDA $ (3,130,760 ) $ (4,044,838 ) Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.