ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis presents financial information denominated in millions of dollars which can lead to differences from rounding when compared to similar information contained in the unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes which are primarily denominated in thousands of dollars. Executive Summary We are the leading software provider exclusively dedicated to powering social impact. Serving the nonprofit and education sectors, companies committed to social responsibility and individual change makers, our essential software is built to accelerate impact in fundraising, nonprofit financial management, digital giving, grantmaking, corporate social responsibility and education management. A remote-first company, we have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica, India and the United Kingdom, supporting users in 100+ countries. Our revenue is primarily generated from the following sources: (i) charging for the use of our software solutions in cloud and hosted environments; and (ii) providing payment and transaction services. Business Update Our business has proven its resilience during challenging times. The social impact market has been a consistent grower for many decades, through recessions, business upturns and downturns, and even through the COVID-19 global pandemic. We understand there are concerns about federal grant funding in the U.S. and how it potentially impacts our customers. But similar to COVID-19, we believe this uncertainty only makes our software more critical to our customers operations, enabling them to improve fundraising outcomes and to undertake or sharpen their own cost-management initiatives. To be clear, our solutions are not in the funds flow from federal agencies, but are used for fundraising from individual donors, which is even more critical now. Blackbaud has undertaken a number of operational initiatives that we believe set us up to perform well, even in a challenging market. In 2023, we began transitioning our contractual revenue contracts from primarily 1-year to primarily 3-year renewal terms. This modernized approach to contract terms provides increased visibility and consistency for two-thirds of our revenue base and provides better predictability for our customers. Over the past several years, we have transitioned the majority of our products and customers to leading public cloud service providers, while shutting down many of our private data centers, with only two of our own data centers remaining. We continue to innovate through the increasing use of AI to not only empower our customers but also improve our own internal productivity. And lastly, we have right-sized our operations by rationalizing office leases and renegotiating a number of our significant vendor contracts. Despite a strong focus on reducing expenses, we continue to invest aggressively in innovation and our extensive developer network to help our customers raise more money while enhancing and streamlining their operations. Our innovation and end to end workflows continue to be a competitive differentiator and drive sales. We are supporting this initiative through enhancements in sales and marketing programs and we continue to identify, experiment, and scale a range of successful solutions across marketing, customer success, and engineering to be an active innovator through applied AI. Three specific areas that our management team has focused on have contributed to our positive second quarter results: 1) acquiring new logos; 2) driving innovation and as such, strengthening our customer relationships through additional solutions and renewals; and 3) driving higher profitability through operational discipline and efficiencies. 22 Second Quarter 2025 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) As a remote-first workforce company, we continuously evaluate opportunities to shift various business units, functions or roles to lower-cost jurisdictions, including internationally, and may do so if and when we determine that it would reduce costs without negatively impacting the quality of our products and services. For example, we are currently expanding our operations in India, which we expect will give us greater access to talent, and increase the number of our employees, including management, in India. We have leased office space in India to accommodate those new operations, although we do not currently expect to have sales to customers in India in the foreseeable future. In February 2025, we announced that we intend to repurchase during 2025 between 3% and 5% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2024 under our stock repurchase program. During the six months ended June 30, 2025, we repurchased 1,513,022 shares for $100.0 million. Including net share settlement of employee stock compensation, this represents approximately 4.2% of the Company's common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2024. The remaining amount available to purchase stock under our stock repurchase program was $544.5 million as of June 30, 2025. Financial Summary Total revenue ($M) Income from operations ($M) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Second Quarter 2025 Form 10-Q 23 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Revenue decreased by $5.9 million and $14.5 million, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2025, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2024, driven largely by the following: - Decreases in contractual recurring revenue of $13.3 million and $28.2 million, respectively, primarily related to our sale of EVERFI which represented $23.4 million and $45.5 million, respectively. These decreases were partially offset by the positive impact of our pricing initiatives and the performance of our cloud solutions. + Increases in transactional recurring revenue of $7.6 million and $15.0 million, respectively, primarily due to increases in volume for our Blackbaud Integrated Payments and Blackbaud Tuition Management and, to a lesser extent, positive results related to pricing initiatives; also contributing to the increases in transactional recurring revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2025 were increases related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of $1.5 million and $1.4 million, respectively - Decrease in one-time consulting revenue of $1.3 million, for the six months ended June 30, 2025, primarily due to our sale of EVERFI Limited in March 2024 and, to a lesser extent, fewer sales of implementation and customization services. Income from operations increased by $14.6 million during the three months ended June 30, 2025, when compared to the same period in 2024, driven largely by the following: + Decrease in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $10.3 million primarily due to our sale of EVERFI + Decrease in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $8.0 million largely due to the previously disclosed impairment charge related to our EVERFI asset group in December 2024, which primarily included finite-lived intangible assets + Decrease in third-party contractor costs of $4.2 million primarily due to our sale of EVERFI + Decrease in acquisition and disposition-related costs within general and administrative expenses of $2.1 million primarily due to prior year noncash impairment charges partially offset by the release of accrued contingent consideration, both of which occurred during the second quarter of 2024 but did not reoccur in 2025 + Decrease in Security Incident-related expenses of $1.4 million largely related to decreases in loss contingency accruals. See Note 8 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for our discussion of the Security Incident. - Decrease in total revenue, as described above - Increase in stock-based compensation expense of $3.0 million primarily due to estimated overall Company performance against 2025 goals - Increase in employee severance of $2.1 million related to a modest and targeted headcount reduction during the three months ended June 30, 2025 24 Second Quarter 2025 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Income from operations increased by $24.3 million, during the six months ended June 30, 2025, when compared to the same period in 2024, driven largely by the following: + Decrease in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $22.6 million primarily due to our sale of EVERFI + Decrease in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $15.9 million largely due to the previously disclosed impairment charge related to our EVERFI asset group in December 2024, which primarily included finite-lived intangible assets + Decrease in Security Incident-related expenses of $9.6 million largely related to decreases in loss contingency accruals. See Note 8 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for our discussion of the Security Incident. + Decrease in stock-based compensation expense of $8.4 million primarily due to a decrease in the grant date fair value of equity award grants, and to a lesser extent, our sale of EVERFI; partially offset by an increase primarily due to estimated overall Company performance against 2025 goals + Decrease in third-party contractor costs of $7.2 million primarily due to our sale of EVERFI + Decrease in advertising costs of $2.9 million primarily due to our sale of EVERFI - Increase in acquisition and disposition-related costs within general and administrative expenses of $20.7 million primarily related to our release from our lease for office space in Washington, DC in February 2025 - Decrease in total revenue, as described above - Increase in transaction-based costs of $3.4 million related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments and, to a lesser extent, increases in vendor rates - Increase in employee severance of $2.1 million related to a modest and targeted headcount reduction during the three months ended June 30, 2025 - Decrease of $2.1 million in software development costs that were required to be capitalized under GAAP, primarily due to our sale of EVERFI We are continuing to make critical investments in the business in areas such as innovation, cybersecurity, and our continued shift of cloud infrastructure to leading public cloud service providers. We continuously seek opportunities to optimize our portfolio of solutions to focus time and resources on innovation that will have the greatest impact for our customers and the markets we serve, and drive the highest return on investment. To that end, we will continue to simplify and rationalize our portfolio through product sunsets and divestitures of non-core businesses and technologies. Second Quarter 2025 Form 10-Q 25 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Gross dollar retention Our recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception. A key factor to our overall success is the renewal and expansion of our existing subscription agreements with our customers. Management uses gross dollar retention in analyzing our success at delighting our customers with innovative and cloud solutions. Gross dollar retention is defined as contracted annual recurring revenue ("CARR") divided by beginning CARR with a measurement period of twelve months. For the twelve months ended June 30, 2025, our gross dollar retention was approximately 92%. This gross dollar retention rate increased over our rate for the twelve months ended December 31, 2024 primarily due to our sale of EVERFI. We are continually investing in innovation, which we believe will generate strong gross dollar retention over the long-term. Balance sheet and cash flow At June 30, 2025, our cash and cash equivalents were $41.6 million. Under the 2024 Credit Facilities, the carrying amount of our debt was $1.1 billion and our net leverage ratio was 2.70 to 1.00. During the six months ended June 30, 2025, we generated $68.3 million in cash from operations, had a net increase in borrowings of $84.6 million, returned $103.2 million to stockholders by way of share repurchases, including excise tax payments, and had aggregate cash outlays of $29.1 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs. On July 4, 2025, the United States enacted the OBBBA, which introduced significant changes to U.S. tax law. See Note 9 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information. Based on our preliminary review, we expect OBBBA to meaningfully reduce cash taxes for the Company in the near-term. Results of Operations Comparison of the three and six months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024 Disposition As previously disclosed, on December 31, 2024, we disposed of our EVERFI business, formerly a wholly owned subsidiary of Blackbaud, Inc, to a private investment firm that is unaffiliated with Blackbaud for nominal cash consideration. The results of operations of EVERFI are not included in our consolidated results of operations subsequent to the date of disposition. Reclassifications Our revenue from "recurring" and "one-time services and other" have been combined within "revenue" beginning in 2025 due to the immateriality of our one-time services and other revenue. In order to provide comparability between periods presented, our recurring and one-time services and other" revenue lines have been combined within revenue" in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to the presentation of the current period. Similarly, "cost of recurring" and "cost of one-time services and other" have been combined within "cost of revenue" in the previously reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income to conform to the presentation of the current period. 26 Second Quarter 2025 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Revenue and Cost of Revenue Revenue ($M) Cost of revenue ($M) Gross profit ($M) and gross margin (%) YoY Growth (%) YoY Growth (%) Our revenue includes three components: contractual recurring, transactional recurring and one-time services and other. Contractual recurring revenue is primarily comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud solutions, online training programs and subscription-based analytic services. Contractual recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions. Transactional recurring revenue is comprised of transaction fees associated with the use of our solutions, including donation processing, tuition management, consumer giving and event-based usage. One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, and fees for retained and managed services contracts that we do not expect to have a term consistent with our cloud solution contracts. Cost of revenue is primarily comprised of compensation costs for customer support, production IT, professional services and onsite training personnel, hosting and data center costs, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty and data expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations, amortization of software development costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services including remittances of amounts due to third-parties, data expense incurred to perform one-time analytic services and other costs incurred in providing support, recurring services and onsite customer training to our customers. Our customers continue to prefer cloud subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services. We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth. Second Quarter 2025 Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Revenue decreased by $5.9 million, or 2.1%, and $14.5 million, or 2.6%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2025, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2024. For a discussion of our changes in revenue, see "Revenue" above starting on page 24 in this report. Cost of revenue decreased by $11.1 million, or 8.9%, and $22.5 million, or 9.0%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2025, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2024, driven primarily by the following: - Decreases in amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $7.6 million and $15.2 million, respectively, largely due to the previously disclosed impairment charge related to our EVERFI asset group in December 2024, which primarily included finite-lived intangible assets - Decreases in compensation costs of $4.3 million and $7.2 million, respectively, primarily due to our sale of EVERFI - Decreases in third-party contractor costs of $1.1 million and $1.4 million, respectively, largely related to our sale of EVERFI and, to a lesser extent, decreased use of outside contractors - Decreases in allocated overhead costs of $1.0 million and $2.6 million, respectively, primarily related to a reduction in facilities costs and the decreased headcount from our sale of EVERFI + Increases in transaction-based costs of $1.1 million and $3.1 million, respectively, related to the increase in the volume of transactions for which we process payments and, to a lesser extent, increases in vendor rates Gross margin increased by 300 basis points and 290 basis points for the three and six months ended June 30, 2025, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2024, primarily due to the decreases in cost of revenue outpacing the decreases in revenue. Operating Expenses Sales, marketing and customer success ($M) Research and development ($M) General and administrative ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue 28 Second Quarter 2025 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Sales, marketing and customer success Sales, marketing and customer success expense includes compensation costs, variable sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs, variable reseller commissions and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We see a large market opportunity in the long-term and will continue to make investments to drive sales effectiveness. We have also implemented software tools to enhance our digital footprint and drive lead generation. The enhancements we are making in our go-to-market approach are intended to reduce our average customer acquisition cost per customer as well as the related payback period while increasing sales velocity. Sales, marketing and customer success expense decreased by $3.0 million, or 6.4%, and $9.3 million, or 9.5%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2025, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2024. The decreases in dollars and as a percentage of revenue were primarily driven by the following: - Decreases in compensation costs of $1.6 million and $5.8 million, respectively, primarily related to our sale of EVERFI - Decreases in advertising costs of $1.6 million and $2.9 million, respectively, primarily due to our sale of EVERFI Research and development Research and development expense includes compensation costs for engineering and product management personnel, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new solutions or upgrading and enhancing existing solutions that do not qualify for capitalization, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs. We continue to make investments intended to delight our customers with innovative and secure cloud solutions. Research and development expenses decreased by $5.5 million, or 14.0%, and $14.7 million, or 18.0%, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2025, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2024. The decreases in dollars and as a percentage of revenue were primarily driven by the following: - Decreases in compensation costs of $3.9 million and $11.7 million, respectively, primarily related to our sale of EVERFI - Decreases in third-party contractor costs of $2.5 million and $4.8 million, respectively, primarily related to our sale of EVERFI + Decrease in software development costs of $1.7 million, for the six months ended June 30, 2025, that were required to be capitalized under GAAP, primarily due to our sale of EVERFI Not included in research and development expense for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024 were $14.4 million and $14.8 million, respectively, and for the six months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024 were $26.8 million and $28.5 million, respectively, of qualifying costs associated with software development activities that are required to be capitalized under GAAP, such as those for our cloud solutions. Qualifying capitalized development costs associated with our cloud solutions are subsequently amortized to cost of revenue over the related assets' estimated useful life, which generally range from three to seven years. We expect that the amount of software development costs capitalized will be relatively consistent in the near-term as we continue making investments in innovation, quality, security and the integration of our solutions, which we believe will drive long-term revenue growth. Second Quarter 2025 Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, Security Incident-related expenses (including legal fees, settlements and loss contingency accruals), third-party professional fees, insurance, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses. General and administrative expense decreased by $0.6 million, or 1.8%, during the three months ended June 30, 2025, when compared to the same period in 2024. The decrease in dollars was primarily driven by the following: - Decrease in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $2.1 million primarily due to prior year noncash impairment charges partially offset by the release of accrued contingent consideration, both of which occurred during the second quarter of 2024 but did not reoccur in 2025 - Decrease in Security Incident-related expenses of $1.4 million largely related to decreases in loss contingency accruals. See Note 8 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for our discussion of the Security Incident. - Decrease in rent expense of $1.0 million primarily related to our release from our lease for office space in Washington, DC in February 2025 + Increase in stock-based compensation costs of $2.5 million primarily due to estimated overall Company performance against 2025 goals + Decrease in total costs allocated from general and administrative expense of $1.5 million primarily related to a reduction in facilities costs and the decreased headcount from our sale of EVERFI. Depreciation, facilities and IT support costs are pooled and recorded to general and administrative expense and allocated to other lines of our statements of comprehensive income based on headcount. General and administrative expense increased by $8.3 million, or 10.3%, during the six months ended June 30, 2025, when compared to the same period in 2024. The increases in dollars and as a percentage of revenue were primarily driven by the following: + Increase in acquisition and disposition-related costs of $20.7 million primarily related to our release from our lease for office space in Washington, DC in February 2025 + Decrease in total costs allocated from general and administrative expense of $3.3 million primarily related to a reduction in facilities costs and the decreased headcount from our sale of EVERFI. Depreciation, facilities and IT support costs are pooled and recorded to general and administrative expense and allocated to other lines of our statements of comprehensive income based on headcount. + Increase in third-party software costs of $1.4 million primarily related to investments in our internal cybersecurity program - Decrease in Security Incident-related expenses of $9.6 million largely related to decreases in loss contingency accruals. See Note 8 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for our discussion of the Security Incident. - Decrease in stock-based compensation costs of $4.9 million primarily due to a decrease in the grant date fair value of equity award grants, and to a lesser extent, our sale of EVERFI; partially offset by an increase primarily due to estimated overall Company performance against 2025 goals - Decrease in rent expense of $1.9 million primarily related to our release from our lease for office space in Washington, DC in February 2025 - Decrease in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation of $1.6 million primarily due to our sale of EVERFI 30 Second Quarter 2025 Form 10-Q Table of Contents Blackbaud, Inc. (Unaudited) Interest Expense Interest expense ($M) Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue The increases in interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2025, when compared to the same periods in 2024, were primarily due to our incremental borrowings to fund stock repurchases during 2024 and 2025 and the expiration of favorable interest rate swaps in October 2024. We currently expect interest expense for the full year 2025 to be approximately $65 million to $69 million. Our interest expense in connection with the variable rate portion of our outstanding debt could increase in a rising interest rate environment. See Note 7 to our unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for more information regarding our derivative instruments, which we use to manage our variable interest rate risk, and