Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report (this Quarterly Report) to we, us, Osprey or the Company refer to Osprey Technology Acquisition Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to Osprey Sponsor II, LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K/A filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 15, 2018, for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or other similar Business Combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. The issuance of additional shares of our stock in a Business Combination: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors; may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; could cause a change of control if a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Units, common stock and/or warrants. Similarly, if we issue debt securities or otherwise incur significant indebtedness, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a Business Combination are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and we breach any such covenant without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; 15 Table of Contents using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, our ability to pay expenses, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, and fund other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, and execution of our strategy; and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. In March 2020, the COVID-19 outbreak was declared a National Public Health Emergency that has adversely impacted global activity and contributed to significant declines and volatility in financial markets. Management continues to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and has concluded that while it is reasonably possible that the virus could have a negative effect on the Companys financial position, results of its operations and/or search for a target company, the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of these financial statements. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Nevertheless, the outbreak presents uncertainty and risk with respect to the Company and its ability to successfully complete a Business Combination. Recent Developments On February 17, 2021, we entered into a Merger Agreement with Merger Sub and BlackSky, which provides for, among other things, the merger of Merger Sub with and into BlackSky, with BlackSky continuing as the surviving entity (the Merger and, collectively with the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Transactions). The Transactions set forth in the Merger Agreement, including the Merger, will constitute a Business Combination. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the aggregate merger consideration payable to equity holders of BlackSky at closing (the Total Consideration) will be paid in a number of shares of newly-issued Class A common stock of the Company, valued at $10.00 per share (the Company Common Stock), calculated by dividing (x) $925,000,000, plus (a) the aggregate exercise prices that would be paid to BlackSky if all stock options and all warrants outstanding as of immediately prior to the closing were exercised in full, minus (b) any unfunded amount under BlackSkys bridge loan, minus (c) the total consideration payable to shares of BlackSkys Class B common stock, which is equal to the product of (i) the total number of shares of BlackSkys Class B common stock, par value $0.00001 per share, issued and outstanding as of immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger and (ii) an amount in cash equal to $0.00001 by (y) $10.00. Effective as of the effective time of the Merger and by virtue of the Merger, each option to purchase shares of BlackSky Class A Common Stock (each, a BlackSky Stock Option) that is outstanding and unexercised as of immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger will be converted into an option to acquire a number of shares of Company Class A Common Stock equal to the product obtained by multiplying (x) the number of shares of BlackSky Common Stock subject to the applicable BlackSky Stock Option by (y) the Class A Common Exchange Ratio, and will be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable to such BlackSky Stock Option (each an Assumed Company Stock Option). For purposes of the Merger Agreement, the Class A Common Exchange Ratio equals the quotient of (A) the residual Total Consideration after taking into account the preferred series preference amounts, divided by $10.00, divided by (B) the number of participating shares of BlackSky Common Stock on a fully diluted basis. The exercise price per share of each Assumed Company Stock Option will be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the exercise price per share applicable to such BlackSky Stock Option by (y) the Class A Common Exchange Ratio. The Transactions will be consummated subject to the deliverables and provisions as further described in the Merger Agreement. PIPE Investment Subscription Agreements On February 17, 2021, concurrently with the execution of the BlackSky merger agreement, Osprey entered into Subscription Agreements (collectively, the Subscription Agreements ) with certain third-party investors (the PIPE Investors ) and certain inside investors (the Inside PIPE Investors ) pursuant to which, and on the terms and subject to the conditions of which, the PIPE Investors and Inside PIPE Investors have collectively subscribed for an aggregate of 18,000,000 shares of Osprey Common Stock for $10.00 per share, for an aggregate purchase price equal to $180,000,000 (the PIPE Investment ). The PIPE Investment will be consummated substantially concurrently with the closing of the transactions contemplated by the BlackSky merger agreement, subject to the terms and conditions contemplated by the Subscription Agreements. The proceeds from the PIPE Investment are expected to be used to pay down certain indebtedness of BlackSky Holdings at the closing of the Merger and for general working capital purposes following the closing. The Subscription Agreements entered into by the PIPE Investors provide for certain registration rights for the PIPE Investors. In particular, in the case of the PIPE Investors, Osprey is required to, no later than 45 calendar days following the closing date of the Business Combination, submit to or file with the SEC a registration statement registering the resale of such shares. Also in the case of the PIPE Investors, Osprey is required to use its commercially reasonable efforts to have the registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable after the filing thereof, but no later than the earlier of (a) the 90th calendar day following the filing date thereof if the SEC notifies Osprey that it will review the registration statement and (b) the 10th business day after the date Osprey is notified (orally or in writing, whichever is earlier) by the SEC that the registration statement will not be reviewed or will not be subject to further review. Osprey must use commercially reasonable efforts to keep the registration statement effective until the earliest of: (i) the date the PIPE Investors no longer hold any shares, (ii) the date all registrable shares held by the PIPE Investors may be sold without restriction under Rule 144 and (iii) two years from the date of effectiveness of the registration statement. Pursuant to the terms of the BlackSky merger agreement and the Subscription Agreements entered into by the Inside PIPE Investors, the Inside PIPE Investors will enter into the Registration Rights Agreement (as defined and described below), which will provide for certain registration rights for the Inside PIPE Investors. 16 Table of Contents Each Subscription Agreement will terminate upon the earliest to occur of (a) the termination of the BlackSky merger agreement in accordance with its terms, (b) the mutual written agreement of the parties to such Subscription Agreement and BlackSky Holdings, and (c) the Termination Date. Sponsor Support Agreement On February 17, 2021, concurrently with the execution of the BlackSky merger agreement the Sponsor, Osprey, BlackSky Holdings, and each of the other persons set forth on the signature pages thereto entered into a Sponsor Support Agreement (the Sponsor Support Agreement ), pursuant to which the Sponsor, solely in its capacity as a stockholder of Osprey, has agreed, among other things, (a) to waive certain anti-dilution rights set forth in Section 4.3(b) of Ospreys amended and restated certificate of incorporation that may result from the transactions contemplated by the BlackSky merger agreement, (b) not to, directly or indirectly, transfer any of their shares of its Class B common stock and warrants of Osprey prior to the effective time of the Merger, (c) to vote in favor of the adoption of the BlackSky merger agreement and the Transactions at a meeting of Ospreys stockholders to be held to approve the proposed Transactions and other related matters, (d) not to redeem or elect to cause Osprey to redeem any of its shares of Class B common stock or warrants of Osprey in connection with the transactions and (e) with respect to certain shares of Class B common stock (and Class A shares issued upon conversion) until the seven-year anniversary of the consummation of the transactions (subject to certain limited exceptions), not to transfer such shares until Osprey Common Stock achieves a trading price exceeding certain dollar thresholds set forth in the Sponsor Support Agreement and (e) with respect to certain warrants, not exercise any such warrants unless and until Osprey Common Stock reaches a trading price of $20.00 per share, in each case, subject to the terms and conditions contemplated by the Sponsor Support Agreement. Stockholder Support Agreement On February 17, 2021, Osprey also announced entry into a Stockholder Support Agreement (the Stockholder Support Agreement ) by and among Osprey, Merger Sub, BlackSky Holdings and certain stockholders of BlackSky Holdings named therein (collectively the Key Stockholders ), pursuant to which the Key Stockholders have agreed to, among other things, vote in favor of the BlackSky merger agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, including agreeing to execute a written consent constituting the requisite BlackSky Holdings stockholder approval within five (5) business days of the Registration Statement becoming effective, unless the Merger is no longer recommended by BlackSky Holdings board of directors in accordance with the BlackSky merger agreement, in which case the Key Stockholders have agreed to vote a number of shares not to exceed 35% of the shares of BlackSky Holdings stock approving the BlackSky merger agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby and are entitled, in their sole discretion, to vote their remaining shares in any manner. The Stockholder Support Agreement will terminate upon the earlier to occur of: (a) the effective time of the Merger, (b) the date of the termination of the BlackSky merger agreement in accordance with its terms, (c) the effective date of a written agreement of Osprey, Merger sub, BlackSky Holdings and the Key Stockholders terminating the Stockholder Support Agreement, and (d) the election of the Key Stockholders, in their sole discretion, to terminate the Stockholder Support Agreement following any amendment, waiver or other modification of any term or provision of the BlackSky merger agreement without the prior written consent with respect thereto of such stockholder that reduces or changes the form of consideration payable to BlackSky Holdings stockholders pursuant to the BlackSky merger agreement. Registration Rights Agreement The BlackSky merger agreement contemplates that, at the closing, Osprey, the Sponsor, the Inside PIPE Investors and each of the additional parties named therein will enter into an Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement (the Registration Rights Agreement ), pursuant to which Osprey will agree to register for resale, pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act, certain shares of Osprey Common Stock and other equity securities of Osprey that are held by the parties thereto from time to time. The foregoing description of the BlackSky merger agreement and the related documents has been included to provide investors with information regarding their terms. They are not intended to provide any other factual information about Osprey or its affiliates. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from inception to March 31, 2021 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, identifying a target for our Business Combination, and activities in connection with the proposed acquisition of BlackSky. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held after the Initial Public Offering. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had a net loss of $12,870,990, which consists of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $47,155, an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $4,987, and a change in the fair value of the warrant liability of $10,721,500, partially offset by operating costs of $2,201,632. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we had net income of $6,442,454, which consists of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $1,207,866, an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $378,250, and a change in the fair value of the warrant liability of $5,393,500, partially offset by operating costs of $258,326 and a provision for income taxes of $278,836. Liquidity and Capital Resources On November 5, 2019, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 27,500,000 Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $275,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 7,500,000 Private Placement Warrants to our Sponsor at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant, generating gross proceeds of $7,500,000. On November 13, 2019, as a result of the underwriters election to fully exercise their over-allotment option, we consummated the sale of an additional 4,125,000 Units at $10.00 per Unit, and the sale of an additional 825,000 Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant, generating total gross proceeds of $42,075,000. 17 Table of Contents Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option in full and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $316,250,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $18,047,876 in transaction costs, including $6,325,000 of underwriting fees, $11,068,750 of deferred underwriting fees, and $654,126 of other costs in connection with the Initial Public Offering. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $268,358. Net loss of $12,870,990 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $47,155, an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $4,987 and a non-cash charge for the change in fair value of warrant liabilities of $10,721,500. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $1,933,274 of cash from operating activities. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $342,023. Net income of $6,442,454 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $1,207,866, an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $378,250, a non-cash gain for the change in fair value of warrant liabilities of $5,393,500 and a deferred income tax provision of $80,793. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $114,346 of cash from operating activities. 18 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2021, we had marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $318,053,820 (including approximately $1,804,000 of interest income and unrealized gains) consisting of U.S. treasury bills with a maturity of 185 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. Through March 31, 2021, we withdrew $40,050 of interest earned on the Trust Account to pay for our tax obligations. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less taxes payable), to complete our Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor, an affiliate of the Sponsor, or our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants identical to the Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. As of March 31, 2021, we had cash of $171,208 held outside of the Trust Account and working capital deficit of $3,779,605. Until the consummation of a Business Combination, we will use the funds not held in the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. Our Sponsor, officers, directors or their affiliates are not under any obligation to advance us funds, or to invest in us. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain additional financing. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, curtailing operations, suspending the pursuit of a potential transaction, and reducing overhead expenses. We cannot provide any assurance that new financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2021. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay the Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support. Upon completion of the Business Combination or our liquidation, we will cease paying these monthly fees. In addition, we have an agreement to pay the underwriters a deferred fee of $11,068,750. The deferred fee will become payable to the representatives of the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a business combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement.. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Warrant Liability We account for warrants as either equity-classified or liability-classified instruments based on an assessment of the warrants specific terms and applicable authoritative guidance in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480) and ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The assessment considers whether the warrants are freestanding financial instruments pursuant to ASC 480, meet the definition of a liability pursuant to ASC 480, and whether the warrants meet all of the requirements for equity classification under ASC 815, including whether the warrants are indexed to our own common stock, among other conditions for equity classification. This assessment, which requires the use of professional judgment, is conducted at the time of warrant issuance and as of each subsequent quarterly period end date while the warrants are outstanding. We account for the warrants issued in connection with our Initial Public Offering in accordance with the guidance contained in ASC 815-40-15-7D under which the warrants do not meet the criteria for equity treatment and must be recorded as liabilities. Accordingly, we classify the warrants as liabilities at their fair value and adjust the warrants to fair value at each reporting period. This liability is subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in our statement of operations. Class A Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in ASC 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our Class A common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, Class A common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our condensed balance sheets. 19 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) Per Share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Net income (loss) per share, basic and diluted for Class A common stock subject to possible redemption is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account, net of applicable taxes, if any, by the weighted average number of shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption outstanding for the period. Net income (loss) per share, basic and diluted for non-redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing net loss less income attributable to Class A common stock subject to possible redemption, by the weighted average number of shares of non redeemable common stock outstanding for the period presented. Recent Accounting Standards In August 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2020-06, Debt Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40) (ASU 2020-06) to simplify accounting for certain financial instruments. ASU 2020-06 eliminates the current models that require separation of beneficial conversion and cash conversion features from convertible instruments and simplifies the derivative scope exception guidance pertaining to equity classification of contracts in an entitys own equity. The new standard also introduces additional disclosures for convertible debt and freestanding instruments that are indexed to and settled in an entitys own equity. ASU 2020-06 amends the diluted earnings per share guidance, including the requirement to use the if-converted method for all convertible instruments. ASU 2020-06 is effective January 1, 2022 and should be applied on a full or modified retrospective basis, with early adoption permitted beginning on January 1, 2021. We are currently assessing the impact, if any, that ASU 2020-06 would have on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements.