Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Any of the following risks could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects, and could cause the trading price of our Class A common stock to decline. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Our Risk Factors are not guarantees that no such conditions exist as of the date of this report and should not be interpreted as an affirmative statement that such risks or conditions have not materialized, in whole or in part. Risk Factors Summary The risks and uncertainties to which our business is subject include, but are not limited to, the following: Our business is substantially dependent on revenue from the financial services industry and is therefore subject to risks impacting the mortgage industry and the larger financial services industry; Increases in market interest rates have, and will likely continue to, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations; Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy or reductions in technology spending could limit our ability to grow our business and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations; We have a history of net losses, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future; A large percentage of our revenue is concentrated with a small number of key customers, and if our relationships with any of these key customers were to be terminated or the level of business with them significantly reduced over time, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects would be adversely affected; If we fail to retain our existing customers or to acquire new customers in a cost-effective manner, or if our customers fail to maintain their utilization of our products and services, our revenue may decrease and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected; We face intense competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected; We have previously experienced periods of rapid growth; however, our growth rate has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate in the future; We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful; Our business, financial condition, and results of operations depend on our ability to adapt to technological change as well as global trends in the way customers access cloud-based banking software and successfully introduce new and enhanced products, services and business models; Our results of operations have fluctuated from period to period, which has caused the market price of our Class A common stock to fluctuate; We operate under a success-based model and often rely on self-reporting of completed transactions by our customers, which can make it difficult to estimate and forecast revenue; We have in the past, and may in the future, make strategic acquisitions or enter into partnerships, strategic collaborations, joint ventures or licensing agreements and investments, and we face risks related to execution and the integration of such acquisitions or investments and the management of any associated growth; The impairment of intangible assets, goodwill, and other assets arising from any future acquisitions or investments may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations; A cyberattack, security breach or incident affecting us or the third parties we rely on or partner with could expose us or our customers and consumers to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential information and have an adverse effect on our reputation, brand, business, financial condition, and results of operations; 14 We may be subject to claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations; Our customers are, and in some cases we are or may be, subject to, and we facilitate compliance with, a variety of federal, state, and local laws, including those related to consumer protection and financial services; We depend on the interoperability of our platform across third-party applications and services that we do not control; Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations; We have previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and may identify additional material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, which may result in material misstatements of our consolidated financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations; The trading price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment; and The multi-class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting power with Nima Ghamsari, Head of Blend, Co-Founder, and Chair of our board of directors, which will severely limit your ability to influence or direct the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation (the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation) and amended and restated bylaws, and the approval of any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other major corporate transaction. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Our business is substantially dependent on revenue from the financial services industry and, is therefore subject to risks impacting the mortgage industry and the larger financial services industry. A substantial majority of the transactions enabled through our platform and title orders processed relate to mortgage loans and refinances, and our financial prospects depend significantly on the financial services industry ecosystem. In recent weeks, there has been significant volatility and instability among banks and financial institutions. For example, on March 10, 2023, Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB, was closed by the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation, which appointed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC, as receiver. Similarly, on March 12, 2023, Signature Bank and Silvergate Capital Corp. were each swept into receivership. These events, and others have resulted in significant uncertainty, and we cannot predict the short term or long term impacts on the financial services industry. To the extent our financial services customers or potential customers fail or experience downturns due to challenges in the general macroeconomic environment or adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets, these firms may decrease the amount of money they spend with us, or stop spending with us entirely. In addition, increased competition to financial services firms from challenger banks and technology disruptors as well as decreases in consumer demand in the financial services industry in general could adversely affect the demand for our product and, in turn, the number of customers and their consumers using our platform. The mortgage market is heavily influenced by government policies and overall economic conditions. The real estate environment, including interest rates and the general economic environment, typically impacts demand for mortgage and mortgage-related products. An increase in interest rates due to efforts by the Federal Reserve to manage rising inflation, combined with ongoing supply constraints, resulted in a decline in mortgage origination activity in 2022 and could bring further reductions in future periods. In their latest published update, the Mortgage Bankers Association indicated that overall mortgage originations, including refinancing loans, are expected to further decline in 2023. As a large portion of our revenue is driven by mortgage and mortgage-related transaction volumes, declines in mortgage origination volumes have had and are likely to continue to have adverse effects on our business. The number of mortgage loans and refinances has been and may continue to be affected by negative trends in the general economy in the United States and abroad, including conditions resulting from changes in gross domestic product, financial and credit market fluctuations, the potential recessionary environment and macroeconomic uncertainty, increased interest rates, the availability and cost of credit, reductions in business and consumer confidence, stock market volatility, increased unemployment, political turmoil, pandemics, natural catastrophes, warfare, such as the current war in Ukraine and the potential effects of sanctions, and terrorist attacks on the United States, Europe, the Asia Pacific region or elsewhere, and any such decrease in mortgage origination volumes is likely to have an adverse impact on our business. 15 Increases in market interest rates have, and will likely continue to, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Increasing interest rates have adversely impacted the spending levels of consumers and their ability and willingness to borrow money. In most cases, higher interest rates have led to higher loan rates charged to consumers, which has adversely affected the ability of our customers to generate volume and in turn, the number of transactions enabled through our platform and thus our ability to generate revenue from such transactions. The U.S. Federal Reserve raised the federal funds interest rates an aggregate of 4.25% over the course of 2022. The U.S. Federal Reserve further raised the federal funds interest rate in January 2023 for a 0.25% increase and indicated that it expects to raise that interest rate again in the future. As a result of interest rate increases, consumers and financial services firms may be less inclined to borrow money for mortgages, or to refinance existing mortgages, which may result in less engagement with our platform and/or our services. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, a reduction in the volume of transactions enabled through our platform and the value of title orders processed. In addition, revenue generated from such transactions may decline faster than our ability to reduce expenses, and such declines have and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy or reductions in technology spending could limit our ability to grow our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations may vary based on the impact of changes in our industry or the U.S. economy on us or our customers. The revenue growth and potential profitability of our business depend on demand for our solutions. Economic uncertainties have and could continue to adversely affect our business and results of operations. Negative conditions in the general economy in the United States and abroad, including conditions resulting from changes in gross domestic product growth, financial and credit market fluctuations, the potential recessionary environment and macroeconomic uncertainty, increased interest rates, the availability and cost of credit, reductions in business and consumer confidence, stock market volatility, increased unemployment, political turmoil, pandemics, natural catastrophes, warfare, such as the current war in Ukraine and the potential effects of sanctions, and terrorist attacks on the United States, Europe, the Asia Pacific region or elsewhere, could cause a decrease in lending activity and business investments, including spending on technology, and as a result, negatively affect the growth of our business. To the extent our solutions are perceived by customers and potential customers as costly, or too difficult to deploy or migrate to, our revenue may be disproportionately affected by delays or reductions in general technology spending. Also, competitors, some of whom are larger and more established than we are, may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown, instability or recovery, generally or within any particular industry. If the economic conditions of the general economy or markets in which we operate worsen from present levels, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 16 We have a history of net losses, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have incurred net losses in each period since our inception in 2012, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We incurred a net loss of $720.2 million and $169.9 million in the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,162.9 million and $442.8 million, respectively. We expect our losses to continue as we expect to incur significant costs and invest significant additional funds towards sustaining and growing our business and operating as a public company. We have expended and expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on product development, including investments in our product, engineering, and design teams and the development of new products and new functionality for our existing products and our platform; our technology infrastructure, including systems architecture, management tools, scalability, availability, performance, and security, as well as disaster recovery measures; our sales, marketing, and customer success organizations; acquisitions or strategic investments; and general administration, including legal and accounting expenses. These efforts may be more costly than we expect and may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. In addition, we expect to incur certain additional charges in the upcoming months in connection with the January Plan, including cash expenditures for employee benefits, severance payments, payroll taxes and related facilitation costs, as well as stock-based compensation. We may incur other charges or cash expenditures not currently contemplated due to unanticipated events that may occur as a result of or in connection with the implementation of the Workforce Reduction Plans, and there can be no assurance that we will be able achieve our projected cost savings in connection with the Workforce Reduction Plans or related initiatives. In addition, failure to increase our revenue sufficiently to keep pace with our investments and other expenses could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability or positive cash flows on a consistent basis. In light of increasing interest rates and other factors, the volume of transactions enabled through our platform and, as a result, revenue generated from such transactions, may decline faster than our ability to reduce expenses. Additionally, in an inflationary environment, our costs may increase, and we may not be able to increase the pricing of our products accordingly, which could adversely impact our financial performance. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. A large percentage of our revenue is concentrated with a small number of key customers, and if our relationships with any of these key customers were to be terminated or the level of business with them significantly reduced over time, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects would be adversely affected. Historically, certain of our customers have accounted for a significant portion of our revenue. For example, for 2022, our top five customers in the Blend Platform segment accounted for 33.5% of the segment revenue, and as of December 31, 2022, we had 20 customers in the Blend Platform segment generating more than $1 million in annual revenue, which represented 57.4% of the segment revenue in 2022. Additionally, we rely on certain of our customers, including Mr. Cooper, for a significant portion of our title transaction volumes. For example, for 2022, our top five customers in the Title365 segment accounted for 78.1% of the segment revenue, with Mr. Cooper accounting for 53.1% of the segment revenue. In June 2022, we completed the migration of Mr. Cooper from traditional title to our software-enabled title solution and changed our reporting segments to align with a change in how our chief operating decision maker reviews financial information in order to allocate resources and assess performance. As a result of this change, revenue from our software-enabled title solution is presented within the Blend Platform segment, resulting in a decrease in revenue within the Title365 segment. As of December 31, 2022, we had 12 customers in the Title365 segment generating more than $1 million in annual revenue, which represented 89.4% of the segment revenue in 2022. We have experienced lower than anticipated title transaction volume since the closing of our Title365 acquisition and may experience further reductions in the future. Reductions in title transaction volume from any such customers, or a deterioration in our relationship with any such customers, could have a significant impact on our title business. The concentration of a significant portion of our business and transaction volume with a limited number of customers, or type of customer or industry, exposes us disproportionately to any of those customers choosing to no longer partner with us or choosing to partner with a competitor, to the economic performance or market share of those customers or industry, including as a result of challenger banks or technology disruptors, or to any events, circumstances, or risks affecting such customers or industry. Additionally, because we do not have long-term contractual financial commitments with many of our customers, a material modification in the financial operations of a key customer could affect our transaction volume with that customer and therefore our revenue growth. If we are unable to continue to increase the number of other customers on our platform or if any of our key customers were to suspend, limit, or cease their operations or otherwise terminate their relationship with us or lose market share, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we fail to retain our existing customers or to acquire new customers in a cost-effective manner, or if our customers fail to maintain their utilization of our products and services, our revenue may decrease and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 17 Our ability to continue our growth in the future will depend in part on our success in maintaining successful relationships with our customers. If any of our customers were to suspend, limit, or cease their operations or otherwise terminate their relationships with us, the number of transactions enabled through our platform could decrease and our revenue and revenue growth rates could be adversely affected. In addition, having a diversified mix of customers is important to mitigate risk associated with changing consumer spending behavior, economic conditions, and other factors that may affect a particular type of financial services firm or industry. While we expect that the revenue from our largest customers will decrease over time as a percentage of our total revenue as we generate more revenue from other customers, we also believe that revenue from our largest customers may continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue, at least in the near term. If we are not able to retain our existing customers or acquire new customers in a cost-effective manner, or if our customers fail to maintain their utilization of our products and services, we will not be able to continue to grow our business. Our ability to retain and grow our relationships with our customers depends on the willingness of customers to partner with us. The attractiveness of our platform to customers depends upon, among other things: our brand and reputation, the amount of fees that we charge, our ability to sustain our value proposition to our customers, products and services offered by competitors, and our ability to perform under, and maintain, our customer agreements. Many of our customers do not have long-term contractual financial commitments to us and, therefore, many of our customers may reduce or cease their use of our products and services at any time without penalty or termination charges. Additionally, a subset of our customers can generally terminate their agreements with us without cause with limited requirements to provide prior notice. Our customers could decide to stop working with us and cease processing transactions through our platform or enter into exclusive or more favorable relationships with our competitors. Further, any downturn in the financial services industry may cause our customers to reduce their spending on lending technology or to seek to terminate or renegotiate their agreements with us. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions with us after the expiration of the initial or current subscription term, and our customers, if they choose to renew at all, may renew on pricing or other contract terms that are less favorable to us or otherwise ask to modify their agreement terms in a manner that is cost prohibitive to us. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our pricing or our products or their ability to continue their operations or spending levels. In addition, our customers regulators may require that they terminate or otherwise limit their business with us, or impose regulatory pressure limiting their ability to do business with us. If any of our customers were to stop working with us, suspend, limit, or cease their operations, do not renew their subscriptions with us on similar pricing terms, or otherwise terminate their relationships with us, the number of loans and other transactions enabled through our platform could decrease and our revenue and revenue growth rates could be adversely affected. Additionally, as the markets for our cloud-based banking software continue to develop, we may be unable to attract new customers based on the same pricing models that we have used historically. Large or influential financial services firms may demand more favorable pricing or other contract terms from us. As a result, we may in the future be required to change our pricing model, reduce our prices, or accept other unfavorable contract terms, any of which could adversely affect our revenue and revenue growth rate. We could in the future have disagreements or disputes with any of our customers, which could negatively impact or threaten our relationship with them. In our agreements with customers, we make certain representations and warranties and covenants concerning our performance and our compliance with certain laws and regulations applicable to the services to be provided by us to our customers. If those representations and warranties were not accurate when made or if we fail to perform a covenant, we may be liable for any resulting damages, including potentially any losses associated with impacted transactions, and our reputation and ability to continue to attract new customers could be adversely affected. Additionally, our customers may engage in mergers, acquisitions or consolidations with each other, our competitors or with third parties, any of which could be disruptive to our existing and prospective relationships with our customers. If we fail to retain any of our larger customers or a substantial number of our smaller customers, if we do not acquire new customers, if we do not continually expand revenue and volume from customers on our platform, or if we do not attract and retain a diverse mix of customers, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be adversely affected. 18 We face intense competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. The market in which we operate is intensely competitive and characterized by shifting user preferences, fragmentation, and frequent introductions of new services and offerings. The primary competitors for our software platform include point solution vendors, providers of back office software with proprietary digital capabilities, and systems developed internally at financial services firms. Our current and future competitors may enjoy competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, greater category share in certain markets, market-specific knowledge, established relationships with financial services firms, including those with larger market share than our customers, and larger existing user bases in certain markets, more successful marketing capabilities, and substantially greater financial, technical, and other resources than we have. Greater financial resources and product development capabilities may allow these competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in financial services firm preferences that may render our platform less attractive or obsolete. Our competitors may also make acquisitions or establish cooperative or other strategic relationships among themselves or with others, introduce new offerings with competitive price and performance characteristics or undertake more aggressive marketing campaigns than ours. Additionally, many of our competitors are well capitalized and offer discounted services, lower pricing, incentives, discounts and promotions, and innovative platforms and offerings, which may be more attractive than those that we offer. Further, our customers may decide to develop their own solutions that compete with ours. As we and our competitors introduce new offerings and invest more in digital capabilities, and as existing offerings evolve, we expect to become subject to additional competition. Our competitors may adopt certain of our platform features or may adopt innovations that our customers value more highly than ours, which would render our platform less attractive and reduce our ability to differentiate our platform. Increased competition could result in, among other things, a reduction of the revenue we generate from the use of our platform from reduced demand or pricing pressures, the number of customers, the frequency of use of our platform, and our margins. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully. If we lose existing customers, fail to attract new customers, or are forced to make pricing concessions as a result of increased competition, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have previously experienced periods of rapid growth; however, our growth rate has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate in the future. We grew rapidly over the last several years, and in recent periods, our growth rate has fluctuated primarily due to macroeconomic factors, including an unfavorable interest rate environment, decreased housing affordability, and uncertain worldwide political and economic conditions in 2022. Our historical revenue growth rate and financial performance may not be indicative of our future performance. In 2022 and 2021, our Blend Platform segment revenue was $132.0 million and $135.6 million, respectively, representing a 3% year-over-year decline. We believe that growth of our revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to price our products and services effectively so that we are able to attract and retain customers without compromising our profitability, attract new customers, increase our existing customers use of our solutions, provide our customers with excellent support, and successfully identify and acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technology that we believe could complement or expand our solutions. However, we are also impacted by macroeconomic factors over which we have no control, which have adversely impacted our business in recent periods. You should not rely on our revenue or key business metrics for any previous quarterly or annual period as any indication of our revenue, revenue growth, key business metrics, or key business metrics growth in future periods. In particular, our revenue growth rate has fluctuated in prior periods, and we expect it to continue to fluctuate over future periods. Our revenue growth rate may decline in future periods as the size of our business grows and as we achieve higher market adoption rates, or for a number of other possible reasons, including macroeconomic conditions, reduced demand for our products and services, insufficient growth in the number of financial services firms that utilize our products and services or the lack of expansion of products and services within our existing customer base, transaction volume and mix, particularly with our significant customers, increased competition, a decrease in the growth or reduction in size of our overall market, unintended consequences from the Workforce Reduction Plans or related initiatives that impact our business, or if we fail for any reason to capitalize on growth opportunities and the maturation of our business, among others. We also expect to continue to make investments in the development and expansion of our business, which may not result in increased revenue or growth. If our revenue growth rate declines, investors perceptions of our business and the trading price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We were founded in 2012 and have previously experienced periods of rapid growth, but due primarily to macroeconomic factors, including an unfavorable interest rate environment, decreased housing affordability, and uncertain worldwide political 19 and economic conditions in fiscal year 2022, our growth rate declined. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to make accurate predictions about our future performance. Assessing our business and future prospects may also be difficult because of the risks and difficulties we face. These risks and difficulties include our ability to: accurately forecast the impact of macroeconomic or other external factors on our business, including the timing and extent of such impacts; accurately forecast our revenue and plan or adjust our operating expenses in light of fluctuations in our revenue; develop a scalable, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently and reliably handle increased usage, as well as the deployment of new features and services; maintain and increase the volume of transactions enabled through our platform; enter into new and maintain existing customer relationships; successfully identify, negotiate, execute, and integrate acquisitions or partnerships; successfully compete with current and future competitors; successfully build our brand and protect our reputation from negative publicity; increase the effectiveness of our marketing strategies; successfully adjust our proprietary technology, products, and services in a timely manner in response to changing macroeconomic conditions and fluctuations in the credit market; enter into new and maintain existing ecosystem partnerships; successfully introduce and integrate new products and services and enter new markets and geographies; adapt to rapidly evolving trends in the ways customers and consumers interact with technology; comply with and successfully adapt to complex and evolving regulatory environments; protect against fraud and online theft; avoid interruptions or disruptions in our service; effectively secure and maintain the confidentiality of the information received, accessed, stored, provided, and used across our systems; successfully obtain and maintain funding and liquidity to support continued growth and general corporate purposes; attract, integrate, and retain qualified employees; and effectively manage growth in our personnel and operations. If we fail to address the risks and difficulties that we face, including those associated with the challenges listed above as well as those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, because we have limited historical financial data and operate in a rapidly evolving market, any predictions about our future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history or operated in a more predictable market. We have encountered in the past, and will encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies with limited operating histories in rapidly changing industries. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan and operate our business, are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our results of operations could differ materially from our expectations and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations depend on our ability to adapt to technological change as well as global trends in the way customers access cloud-based banking software and successfully introduce new and enhanced products, services and business models. We operate in industries that are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, and frequent new product introductions. We believe that the pace of innovation will continue to accelerate as customers increasingly base their technology investments on a broad range of factors, including products and markets addressed, performance and scale, consumer experience, data governance, and regulatory compliance. We must continue to innovate and develop new products and features to meet changing customer and consumer needs and attract and retain talented software developers. 20 Our business depends significantly on revenue from large and mid-sized financial services firms. As our existing platform components mature, we will need to successfully integrate new products on our platform, including by achieving interoperability between such new products and our existing products, as well as upgrade the decisioning, verification, and automation components of our existing platform in order to continue to help our customers adapt quickly to constantly changing market conditions. If we are not able to develop and clearly demonstrate the value of new products, upgraded components, or services to our customers, or effectively utilize our customers data to provide them with value, our ability to retain and acquire customers could be adversely affected. If competitors introduce new offerings embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing technology, services, and website may become obsolete. Our future success could depend on our ability to respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices in a cost-effective and timely manner. We have scaled our business rapidly and significant new platform features and services have in the past resulted in, and in the future may continue to result in, operational challenges affecting our business. Developing and launching enhancements to our platform and new products and services on our platform may involve significant technical risks and upfront capital investments that may not generate return on investment. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt to emerging industry standards. If we face material delays in introducing new or enhanced platform features, products, and services or if our recently introduced offerings do not perform in accordance with our expectations, the customers and consumers that utilize our platform may forego the use of our services in favor of those of our competitors, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our results of operations have fluctuated from period to period, which has caused the market price of our Class A common stock to fluctuate. Our results of operations have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that our results of operations will continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control and difficult to predict. As a result, you should not rely upon our historical results of operations as indicators of future performance. Numerous factors can influence our results of operations, including: our ability to attract and retain customers in a cost-effective manner; our ability to maintain or increase loan volumes, transactions processed, platform utilization, and title orders closed, and improve loan mix; our ability to successfully expand in existing markets and successfully enter new markets; changes in financial services firm behavior with respect to cloud-based software products and solutions; the amount and timing of operating expenses related to maintaining and expanding our business, operations, and infrastructure, including acquiring new and maintaining existing customers; our ability to successfully identify, negotiate, execute, and integrate strategic acquisitions or partnerships; the mix of revenue we generate from our products and our marketplace; the timing and success of new products and services; the impact of worldwide economic conditions, including economic slowdowns, changes in market interest rates, recessions, housing affordability, and tightening of credit markets, including due to the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine; the seasonality of our business; our ability to maintain an adequate rate of growth and effectively manage that growth; our ability to keep pace with technology changes in our industry; the success of our sales and marketing efforts; the effects of negative publicity on our business, reputation, or brand; our ability to protect, maintain, and enforce our intellectual property; costs associated with defending claims, including intellectual property infringement claims, and related judgments or settlements; changes in governmental or other regulations, including state and federal banking laws and regulations or in federal monetary policies, affecting our business; 21 interruptions in service and any related impact on our business, reputation, or brand; the attraction, retention and engagement of qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to choose and effectively manage partners, vendors, and other service providers; the effects of natural or man-made catastrophic events; the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting; and changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. The variability and unpredictability of our results of operations could result in our failure to meet our expectations or those of analysts that cover us or investors with respect to revenue or other results of operations for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations, the market price of our Class A common stock could fall substantially, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. We operate under a success-based business model and often rely on self-reporting of completed transactions by our customers, which can make it difficult to estimate and forecast revenue. We offer our digital lending platform and products to financial institutions through software-as-a-service agreements where fees are assessed for each completed transaction, such as a funded loan, new account opening, or API call. For those products that involve a loan or deposit account application we do not charge for abandoned applications or rejected applications, even though they cause us to incur costs. Our customers have the ability to access our platform, including Blend Builder Platform, our configurable platform, under subscription arrangements, in which customers commit to (a) a minimum number of completed transactions at specified prices over the contract term, (b) under usage-based arrangements, in which customers pay in arrears a variable amount for completed transactions at a specified price or (c) a fixed price platform fee, allowing the use of multiple products and services, including those on Blend Builder Platform. We may earn additional overage fees if the number of completed transactions exceeds contractual minimums for customers who elect to enter into subscription agreements in which a minimum number of transactions are completed at specified prices. Additionally, other than our usage-based agreements pursuant to which customers pay for a variable amount of completed transactions, our subscription agreements are generally non-cancellable during the contract term. Our usage-based arrangements generally can be terminated at any time by the customer. We recognize revenue ratably for our subscription arrangements because the customer receives and consumes the benefits of our platform throughout the contract period. We recognize fees for usage-based arrangements as the completed transactions are processed using our platform. We use and often rely on the reporting of completed transactions by our customers when invoicing them for usage and overage fees in connection with our arrangements. If the reporting of completed transactions by our customers is not timely or accurate, it may impact our ability to estimate revenue, which may impact the accuracy of our actual and forecasted revenue recognized from our customers. If we incorrectly forecast revenue from our customers and the amount of revenue is less than projections we provide to investors, the price of our Class A common stock could decline substantially and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have in the past, and may in the future, make strategic acquisitions or enter into partnerships, strategic collaborations, joint ventures or licensing agreements and investments, and we face risks related to the execution and integration of such acquisitions, including our acquisition of Title365, or investments and the management of any associated growth. We have in the past and plan to continue to expand and diversify our operations with strategic acquisitions or partnerships, strategic collaborations, joint ventures, or licensing arrangements and investments in and with companies, businesses, personnel, and technologies in the future. For example, on June 30, 2021, we completed our acquisition of Title365. Each acquisition requires unique approaches to integration due to, among other reasons, the structure of the acquisitions, the integration of technology, the size, locations, and cultural differences among their teams and ours, and has required, and will continue to require, attention from our management team. Such acquisitions and investments may also require additional management resources to integrate more significant and often more complex businesses into our company. We may be unable to identify or complete prospective acquisitions or partnerships, strategic collaborations, joint ventures or licensing arrangements and investments for many reasons, including, competition for acquisition targets, our inability or unwillingness to pay for targets with high valuations, the absence of a market for certain strategic transactions we may want to pursue or our inability to identify suitable targets, or our inability to finance an acquisition. Antitrust or other regulatory requirements may also delay or prevent an acquisition or require us to make changes to our business to be able to consummate the acquisition. Further, any issuances of equity as part of the consideration for the target will dilute our existing stockholders. 22 Even if we are able to complete an acquisition, partnership, or investment, our future success depends in part on our ability to integrate any future acquisitions and manage any investments, businesses, and partnerships effectively, and we can provide no assurance that such acquired businesses, or any investment or strategic transaction that we enter into, will be successfully integrated into our business, generate revenue, or achieve any expected benefits on a timely basis or at all. Any future acquisitions, or similar strategic transactions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations, including: diversion of managements attention, including oversight over acquired businesses; difficulty in accurately forecasting and accounting for the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges, write-offs of deferred revenue under purchase accounting, and integrating and reporting results for acquired companies that have not historically followed U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP); maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; integration of operations, systems, technologies, products, and personnel of each acquired company, the inefficiencies and lack of control that may result if such integration is delayed or not implemented, and unforeseen difficulties and expenditures that may arise in connection with integration; implementation of internal controls, procedures, and policies, in particular, with respect to the effectiveness of internal controls, cyber and information security practices, incident response plans, and business continuity and disaster recovery plans, compliance with privacy, data protection, information security, and other regulations, and compliance with U.S.-based economic policies and sanctions which may not have previously been applicable to the acquired companys operations; implementation of restructuring actions and cost reduction initiatives to streamline operations and improve cost efficiencies; our acquisitions or investments may not achieve the planned objectives or return on investment and we may incur impairment charges for acquired intangible assets, goodwill or investments; we may be required to pay contingent consideration in excess of the initial fair value, and contingent consideration may become payable at a time when we do not have sufficient cash available to pay such consideration; significant costs incurred in connection with acquisition transactions, such as professional service fees; the risk that any additional stock-based compensation issued or assumed in connection with an acquisition or strategic transaction may dilute our current stockholders, which may in turn impact our stock price and results of operations; in the case of foreign acquisitions or acquisitions that include a foreign entity or operations, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries as well as tax risks that may arise from the acquisition; tax risks, including any requirement to make tax withholdings in various jurisdictions in connection with such transactions or as part of our continuing operations following a transaction, and companies or businesses that we acquire may cause us to alter our international tax structure or otherwise create more complexity with respect to tax matters; increasing legal, regulatory, and compliance exposure, and the additional costs related to mitigate each of those, as a result of adding new offices, employees, and other service providers, benefit plans, equity awards, job types, and lines of business globally; and liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property, commercial, and other litigation claims or disputes, cyber and information security vulnerabilities and incidents, violations of laws, rules and regulations, including with respect to employee classification, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities. 23 In particular, the ongoing integration of Title365 into our existing operations has resulted in greater than anticipated costs and management attention. We may not be able to integrate Title365 into our existing operations in a timely manner or at all, and as such, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Title365, including cost savings and other synergies and growth opportunities. Failure to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Title365, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, has and could continue to have an adverse effect on our revenue, level of expenses, and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that the integration process has resulted in and could in the future result in the loss of key employees, errors or delays in the implementation of shared services, the disruption of our ongoing business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that may adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with other employees and customers or to achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Title365. If we fail to address the foregoing risks or other problems encountered in connection with past acquisitions or are unable to successfully integrate and manage our acquisitions and investments, we may not realize the expected benefits of such acquisitions or other strategic transactions or become exposed to additional liabilities, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. The impairment of intangible assets, goodwill, and other assets arising from any future acquisitions or investments may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations When we acquire or invest in a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition may be allocated to goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. Under U.S. GAAP, we review goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of goodwill or an indefinite-lived asset below its carrying value. An adverse change in market conditions or operating results, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of our critical assumptions or estimates, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge to our goodwill or intangible assets. Moreover, we may not be able to achieve our business targets for any future acquisitions or investments, which could result in us incurring additional goodwill and other intangible assets impairment charges. Further declines in our market capitalization increase the risk that we may be required to perform another impairment analysis, which could result in an impairment of up to the entire balance of our goodwill and other intangible assets. Any such impairment charge or write-off may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, due to a continued decline in economic and market conditions, including a decline in our market capitalization, and current and projected declines in the operating results of the Title365 reporting unit, we determined that factors existed which triggered a goodwill impairment review under U.S. GAAP as of June 30, 2022. As such, we performed an interim quantitative impairment analysis and as a result of our assessment, we determined the carrying amounts of certain impacted assets are not recoverable. Based on this analysis, we recorded an impairment charge comprised of a $240.1 million write-down of goodwill and a $151.7 million write-down of customer relationship intangible assets. Subsequently, based on further deterioration in the market conditions in the third quarter of 2022, such as continued increases in interest rates, we determined that triggering events existed as of September 30, 2022, and performed another interim quantitative impairment analysis. Based on this analysis, we recorded an impairment charge comprised of a $47.1 million write-down of goodwill and a $10.7 million write-down of the customer relationship intangible asset, resulting in the full write-off of the goodwill and customer relationship intangible assets. The terms of our credit facility require us to meet certain operating and financial covenants and place restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, the terms of any new debt could further restrict our ability to operate our business. Our credit facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants that either limit our ability to, or require a mandatory prepayment in the event we incur certain additional indebtedness and liens, merge with other companies or consummate certain changes of control, acquire other companies, engage in new lines of business, make certain investments, pay dividends, transfer or dispose of assets, amend certain material agreements, and enter into various specified transactions. As a result, to the extent any transaction of the foregoing type is contemplated but not permitted by a carve-out or basket in the credit facility, we may not be able to engage in any such transaction unless we obtain the consent of our lender or prepay any outstanding amount under our credit facility. Our credit facility also contains a minimum liquidity covenant and financial reporting requirements. Our obligations under our credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets (other than Title365 and its direct and indirect subsidiaries), with limited exceptions. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the principal and interest under our credit facility. In the event of a liquidation, our lender would be repaid all outstanding principal and interest prior to the distribution of assets to unsecured creditors, and the holders of our Class A common stock would receive a portion of any liquidation proceeds only if all of our creditors, including our lenders, were first repaid in full. Any declaration by our 24 lender of an event of default could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. If we raise any additional debt financing, the terms of such additional debt could further restrict our operating and financial flexibility. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our significant debt service obligations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and results of operations, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory, and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, or interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay strategic acquisitions and partnerships, capital expenditures, and payments on account of other obligations, seek additional capital, restructure or refinance our indebtedness, or sell assets. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and could require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our credit facility is subject to a floating rate of SOFR plus a margin, and as a result, we have exposure to interest rate risk. In 2022, the U.S. Federal Reserve raised the federal funds interest rates an aggregate of 4.25%. The U.S. Federal Reserve further raised the federal funds interest rate in January 2023 for a 0.25% increase and indicated that it expects to raise that interest rate again in the future. Though we have met our debt service obligations under the credit facility, increases in interest rates increase our cost of borrowing and potentially make it more difficult to refinance our existing indebtedness, if necessary. If we are unable to repay or otherwise refinance our indebtedness when due, or if any other event of default is not cured or waived, the applicable lenders could accelerate our outstanding obligations or proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. In the event the applicable lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. Any acceleration of amounts due under the agreements governing our credit facility or the exercise by the applicable lenders of their rights under the security documents could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A cyberattack, security breach, or incident affecting us or the third parties we rely on or partner with could expose us or our customers and consumers to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential information and have an adverse effect on our reputation, brand, business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure to operate our business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, receive, use, transmit, store, and otherwise process large amounts of sensitive information, including personal information, credit information, and other sensitive and confidential information of consumers. It is critical that we do so in a manner designed to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of such sensitive information. Additionally, in the ordinary course of our business, we collect, store, transmit, and otherwise process large amounts of confidential business information, including intellectual property, proprietary corporate and business information, and other confidential information. We also have arrangements in place with certain of our partners, vendors, and other service providers that require us to share certain of the information we maintain and otherwise process, including consumer information, with them. Certain elements of our operations (including elements of our information technology infrastructure) rely on third parties, and as a result, we manage numerous third-party service providers that may have access to our computer networks and sensitive or confidential information. In addition, many of those third parties may subcontract or outsource some of their responsibilities to other third parties. Our information technology systems, including the functions of third parties that are involved with or have access to those systems, are large and complex, with many points of entry and access. Our systems and those of our third-party service providers are potentially vulnerable to and may be subject to unintentional, inadvertent, or malicious, internal and external cyberattacks, including security breaches, incidents, exposures, intrusions, malware, ransomware, social engineering attacks, phishing and spearphishing attempts, fraudulent inducement, electronic fraud, wire fraud attempts to overload our servers with distributed denial-of-service attacks, employee theft, error, or malfeasance, unauthorized access by third parties (including foreign governments or state actors with significant financial and technological resources) or internal actors, or other attacks and similar disruptions. Any vulnerabilities can be exploited from inadvertent or intentional actions of our employees, partners, vendors, service providers, customers, or by malicious third parties. For example, in December 2021, a vulnerability in a popular logging software, Log4j, was publicly announced. If left unpatched, the Log4j vulnerability could be exploited to allow unauthorized actors to execute code remotely on a system using Log4j. We have taken steps to ensure this vulnerability 25 has been patched in our systems, but we cannot guarantee that all vulnerabilities have been patched in every system upon which we are dependent or that additional vulnerabilities of Log4j or other software upon which we rely will not be discovered. Additionally, to the extent manual processes are involved in the handling of sensitive information, such sensitive information could be inadvertently misdirected despite our training and quality assurance precautions. While we have taken steps to protect the sensitive and confidential information that we have access to and have implemented multiple overlapping controls to reduce risk of a single control failure, our security measures or those of our partners, vendors, or other service providers could be breached or we could suffer data loss, unavailability, corruption, or unauthorized use or other processing, or unauthorized access to our platform or the systems or networks used in our business. Because cyberattacks of this nature are increasing in frequency, levels of persistence, sophistication and intensity, and techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and may not be known until they are launched against a target, we and our partners, vendors, and other service providers may be unable to anticipate or prevent these attacks, react in a timely manner, or implement adequate preventive measures, and we may face delays in our detection or remediation of, or other responses to, security breaches and other privacy- and security-related incidents. These security risks that we and our partners, vendors, and other service providers face have been heightened by an increase in employees and service providers working remotely in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, these risks may be elevated in connection with the current war in Ukraine. In addition, consumers on our platform could have vulnerabilities on their own devices that are entirely unrelated to our systems and platform but could mistakenly attribute their own vulnerabilities to us. Consumers on our platform may also provide sensitive information to other third parties through their use of our platform, and consumers could mistakenly attribute any misuse of such information by other third parties to us. Further, breaches and incidents experienced by other companies may also be leveraged against us. For example, credential stuffing and business email compromise attacks are becoming increasingly common and sophisticated actors can mask their attacks, making them increasingly difficult to identify and prevent. Certain efforts may be state-sponsored or supported by significant financial and technological resources, making them even more difficult to detect, remediate, and otherwise respond to. There also have been and may continue to be significant supply chain attacks, and we cannot guarantee that our or our partners, vendors, or service providers systems and networks have not been breached or that they do not contain exploitable defects or bugs that could result in a breach of or incident impacting, or a disruption to our systems and networks or the systems and networks of third parties that support us and our services. In addition, laws, regulations, government guidance, and industry standards and practices in the United States and elsewhere are rapidly evolving to combat these threats. We may face increased compliance burdens regarding such requirements with regulators and customers regarding our products and services and will incur additional costs for oversight and monitoring of our own supply chain. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect the confidential and sensitive information we maintain and our partners, vendors, and other service providers maintain on our behalf, including personal information of our customers, consumers, and employees, protect our systems, prevent data loss, and prevent security breaches and security incidents, these security measures may not have fully protected our systems in the past and cannot guarantee security in the future. The information technology systems and infrastructure used in our business may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or security breaches, and third parties may be able to access data, including personal information of our customers, consumers, or employees, or other sensitive and proprietary data, accessible through those systems. Employee error, malfeasance, or other errors in the storage, use, or transmission of any of these types of data could result in an actual or perceived privacy or security breach or other security incident. Although we have policies and technologies restricting access to the personal information we store, there is a risk that these policies and technologies may not be effective in all cases. Any breach of privacy, or any security breach or other incident, could interrupt our operations, result in our platform being unavailable, result in loss of or improper access to, or acquisition, disclosure, or other processing of sensitive or confidential information, personal information, or other data, result in fraudulent transfer of funds. Further, any such event, or the perception it has occurred, may harm our reputation, brand, and competitive position, damage our relationships with our customers, subject us to adverse media coverage, or result in claims, regulatory investigations, and proceedings and significant legal, regulatory, and financial exposure, including ongoing monitoring by regulators, and any such incidents or any perception that our security measures are inadequate could lead to loss of customer confidence in, or decreased use of, our platform, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any actual or perceived breach of privacy or security, or other security incident, impacting any entities with which we share or disclose data (including, for example, our partners, vendors, or other service providers) could have similar effects. We also expect to incur significant costs in an effort to detect and prevent privacy and security breaches and other security incidents, and we may face increased costs and requirements to expend substantial resources in the event of an actual or perceived privacy or security breach or other incident. 26 Additionally, defending against claims or litigation based on any privacy or security breach or other security incident, regardless of their merit, could be costly and divert managements attention. We cannot ensure that any provisions in our agreements with customers, contracts with service providers and other contracts relating to limitations of liability, including those in connection with a privacy or security breach or other security incident, would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate for data handling or information security costs or liabilities actually incurred, that insurance will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have an adverse effect on our reputation, brand, business, financial condition, and results of operations. The success of our business depends on a trustworthy reputation and strong brand and any failure to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand would hurt our ability to retain or expand our base of customers and our ability to increase their level of engagement. We believe maintaining a trustworthy reputation and strong brand is critical to our success and our ability to attract customers to our platform and maintain good relations with regulators. Our reputation, brand, and ability to build trust with existing and new customers may be adversely affected by complaints and negative publicity about us, our platform, partners, and customers that utilize our platform or our competitors platforms, even if factually incorrect or based on isolated incidents. Negative perception of our platform or company may harm our reputation and brand, including as a result of: perceptions of cloud-based software and our industry and our company, including the quality, security, and reliability of our cloud-based software platform; the overall user experience of our platform; changes to our platform; a failure to provide a range of options sought by customers or consumers; our ability to effectively manage and resolve customer and consumer complaints; fraudulent, illegal, negligent, reckless, or otherwise inappropriate behavior by users or third parties; actual or perceived disruptions to, failures of, or defects, bugs, vulnerabilities, or errors in our platform or similar incidents, such as privacy or security breaches or other security incidents, site outages, payment disruptions, or other incidents that impact or may be perceived to impact the reliability of our services, including services provided by third parties we rely on; litigation over, or investigations by regulators into, our platform; customers or consumers lack of awareness of, or compliance with, our policies; a failure to comply with legal, tax, privacy, data protection, information security, or regulatory requirements; changes to our practices with respect to collection and use of customer and consumer data; a failure to enforce our policies in a manner that users perceive as effective, fair, and transparent; a failure to operate our business in a way that is consistent with our values and mission; inadequate or unsatisfactory support experiences for our customers; illegal or otherwise inappropriate behavior by our management team or other employees or contractors; or a failure to register and prevent misappropriation of our trademarks. If we do not successfully develop, protect, and enhance our reputation and brand, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 27 If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. In the past, we have experienced periods of rapid growth in our customers, and our operations, and we expect to experience growth in the future. We have also experienced significant growth in employee headcount for several years in the past both at our San Francisco headquarters and through remote work arrangements. Our growth has placed, and may continue to place, substantial demands on management and our operational and financial infrastructure. However, from time to time, we have undertaken restructuring actions to better align our financial model and our business. For example, we have undertaken the Workforce Reduction Plans to reduce operating expenses and adjust cash flows in light of the ongoing macroeconomic environment and its impact on our business. We may need to take additional restructuring actions in the future to align our business with the market. Steps we take to manage our business operations, including reductions in operating expense and restructurings may adversely impact our business. Steps we take to manage our business operations and future growth may adversely affect our reputation and brand, our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel. We have made, and intend to continue to make in the future, substantial investments in our technology, customer service, risk, sales and marketing infrastructure. Our ability to manage our growth and business operations effectively and to integrate new employees, technologies, and acquisitions into our existing business will require us to continue to expand our operational and financial infrastructure and to continue to effectively integrate, develop, and motivate employees, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our culture. Continued growth could challenge our ability to develop and improve our information technology infrastructure and our operational, financial, and management controls, enhance our reporting systems and procedures, recruit, train, and retain highly skilled personnel and maintain user satisfaction. Additionally, if we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and the efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, in connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2021, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our consolidated financial statements that could result in a restatement of our financial statements and could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, any of which could diminish investor confidence in us and could cause a decline in the price of our Class A common stock. While we believe that the previously reported material weakness has been remediated as of December 31, 2022, additional weaknesses in our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting may be discovered in the future. We will need to continue to improve our operational and financial infrastructure in order to manage our business effectively and accurately report our results of operations. Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our website or platform, or other delays or slow response times from our website or platform, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We currently serve our customers and consumers on our platform from third-party data center hosting facilities. It is critical to our success that our customers (including their customers) and consumers be able to access our platform at all times, and that the performance of our platform is responsive and rapid. Our systems, or those of third parties upon which we rely, may experience service interruptions, outages, failures, or degradation or other performance problems because of hardware and software defects or malfunctions, distributed denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, infrastructure changes, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, other natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, ransomware, malware, or other events. Our systems also may be subject to break-ins, sabotage, theft, and intentional acts of vandalism, including by our own employees. Some of our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. These eventualities could cause information, including information relating to our customers and consumers, to be lost, corrupted, altered, or delayed. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of systems failures and similar events. Additionally, in some cases, partners, vendors, and other service providers run their own platforms that we access, and we are, therefore, vulnerable to their service interruptions. In the event that our data center arrangements are terminated, or if there are any lapses of service or damage to a center, we could experience lengthy interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging new facilities and services. We have experienced and will likely continue to experience system failures and other events or conditions from time to time that interrupt the availability or reduce or affect the speed or functionality of our platform. These system failures generally occur either as a result of software updates being deployed with unexpected errors or as a result of temporary infrastructure failures related to storage, network, or compute capacity being exhausted. These events have resulted in losses in revenue, though such losses have not been material to date. System failures in the future could result in significant losses of revenue. Moreover, we have in the past provided credits to customers per contractual obligations and/or voluntarily made payments to 28 customers to compensate them for the system failure or similar event, and we may provide similar such credits in the future. In addition, the affected customer or consumer could seek monetary recourse from us for its losses and such claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address. Further, in some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. A prolonged interruption in the availability or reduction in the availability, speed, or other functionality of our platform could adversely affect our business and reputation and could result in the loss of customers. Further, we have service level agreements with our customers that require us to meet uptime requirements, and in some cases, system performance or latency standards. In the event that we fail to meet those requirements, whether because of system failures, slow platform performance, or otherwise, our customers may request credits from us, which could adversely impact our revenue and results of operations in a period where we provide such credits. Our sales cycle can be unpredictable, time-consuming, and costly. Our sales process involves educating prospective and existing customers about the benefits and technical capabilities of our products and services. Prospective customers often undertake a prolonged evaluation process, which typically involves not only our products and services, but also those of our competitors. In addition to a prolonged evaluation process, macroeconomic conditions including rising interest rates and declining demand for mortgage, mortgage-related and consumer banking products may also impact our sales cycle. Our sales cycles are typically lengthy, generally ranging from six to nine months for smaller financial services firms and ranging from twelve to eighteen months or more for larger financial services firms. We may spend substantial time, effort, and money on our sales and marketing efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. Events affecting our customers businesses may occur during the sales cycle that could affect the size or timing of a purchase, contributing to more unpredictability in our business and results of operations. As a result of these factors, we may face greater costs, longer sales cycles, and less predictability in the future, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may encounter deployment challenges, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may face unexpected challenges related to the complexity of our customers deployment and configuration requirements. Deployment of our software platform may be delayed or expenses may increase when customers have unexpected data, software, or technology challenges, or unanticipated business requirements, which could adversely affect our relationship with our customers and our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In general, our revenue related to deployment and other professional services we provide is recognized on a proportional performance basis, and delays and difficulties in these engagements could result in losses or the recognition of revenue later than expected. Further, because we do not fully control our customers deployment schedules, if our customers do not allocate or have the internal resources necessary to meet deployment timelines or if there are otherwise unanticipated deployment delays or difficulties, our ability to take customers live and the overall customer experience could be adversely affected. We rely on existing customers to act as references for prospective customers, and difficulties in deployment and configuration could therefore adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. Any difficulties or delays in the deployment processes could cause customers to delay or forego future purchases of our products and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 29 Defects, errors, or vulnerabilities in our applications, backend systems, or other technology systems and those of third-party technology providers could harm our reputation and brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our platform and system infrastructure rely on software that is highly technical and complex and depend on the ability of such software to store, retrieve, process, and manage high volumes of data. The software on which we rely may contain undetected errors, defects, bugs, or vulnerabilities, some of which may only be discovered after the code has been released. Our practice is to affect frequent releases of software updates, sometimes multiple times per day. Further, as we create new products and services and enhance our existing products and services, we may encounter difficulties in achieving interoperability between our new products and services and our existing products and services. The third-party software that we incorporate into our platform or rely on may also be subject to errors, defects, bugs, or vulnerabilities. Any errors, defects, bugs, or vulnerabilities discovered in our code or from third-party software after release could result in negative publicity, a loss of users, increased regulatory scrutiny, fines or penalties, loss of revenue or liability for damages, and access or other performance issues. Such vulnerabilities could also be exploited by malicious actors and result in exposure of data of users on our platform, or otherwise result in a security breach or other security incident. We may need to expend significant financial and development resources to analyze, correct, eliminate, or work around errors, bugs, or defects or to address, analyze, correct, and eliminate software platform vulnerabilities. Any failure to timely and effectively resolve any such errors, defects, bugs, or vulnerabilities could adversely affect our business, reputation, brand, financial condition, and results of operations. Any failure to offer high-quality customer support by us or by partners, vendors, and other service providers may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and could adversely affect our reputation, brand, business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain customers is dependent in part on our ability to provide high-quality support. Our customers depend on our customer success organization to resolve any issues relating to our platform and products. As we continue to grow our business and improve our offerings, we will face challenges related to providing high-quality support services at scale. Additionally, to the extent we decide to grow our international business and the number of international users on our platform, our customer success organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support in languages other than English. Any failure to maintain high-quality support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could harm our reputation and adversely affect our ability to scale our platform and business, our financial condition, and our results of operations. We experience significant seasonal fluctuations in our financial results, which could cause our Class A common stock price to fluctuate. Our business is highly dependent on consumer borrowing patterns that have an impact on our results of operations. We generally experience changes in consumer activity over the course of the calendar year, although macroeconomic factors, including an unfavorable interest rate environment, decreased housing affordability, and uncertain worldwide political and economic conditions has made, and may continue to make, seasonal fluctuations difficult to detect. Historically, our revenue has been strongest during the second and third quarters of our fiscal year as a result of higher demand for mortgages and other loans during the summer months. Seasonality has and will likely continue to cause fluctuations in our financial results on a quarterly basis. While our growth has obscured this seasonality in our overall financial results, we expect our results of operations to continue to be affected by such seasonality in the future. In addition, other seasonal trends may develop and the existing seasonal trends that we experience may become more pronounced and contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations as we continue to scale and our growth slows. As such, we may not accurately forecast our results of operations. However, we base our spending and investment plans on forecasts and estimates, and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our revenue is less than expected, causing our results of operations to fail to meet our expectations or the expectations of investors. The market for cloud-based banking software is still in relatively early stages of growth and if this market does not continue to grow, grows more slowly than we expect, or fails to grow as large as we expect, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 30 Use of, and reliance on, cloud-based banking software is still at an early stage, and we do not know whether financial services firms will continue to adopt cloud-based banking software in the future, or whether the market will change in ways we do not anticipate. Many financial services firms have invested substantial personnel and financial resources in legacy software, and these institutions may be reluctant, unwilling or unable to convert from their existing systems to our software platform. Furthermore, these financial services firms may be reluctant, unwilling or unable to use cloud-based banking software due to various concerns such as the security of their data and reliability of the delivery model. These concerns or other considerations may cause financial services firms to choose not to adopt cloud-based banking software such as our cloud-based software platform or to adopt them more slowly than we anticipate, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to sell additional products, services, and functionality to our current and prospective customers. As we create new products and services and enhance our existing products and services, these applications and enhancements may not be attractive to customers or we may encounter difficulties in achieving interoperability between our new products and services and our existing products and services. In addition, promoting and selling new and enhanced functionality may require increasingly costly sales and marketing efforts, and if customers choose not to adopt this functionality our business and results of operations could suffer. If financial services firms are unwilling or unable to transition from their legacy systems, or if the demand for our software platform does not meet our expectations, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on our senior management team and our other highly skilled employees to grow and operate our business, and if we are unable to hire, retain, manage, and motivate our employees, or if our new employees do not perform as we anticipate, we may not be able to grow effectively and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our future success will depend in part on the continued service of our founders, senior management team, key technical employees, and other highly skilled employees, including Nima Ghamsari, Head of Blend, Co-Founder, and Chair of our board of directors, and on our ability to continue to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain talented employees. We may not be able to retain the services of any of our employees or other members of senior management in the future. Also, all of our U.S.-based employees, including our senior management team and Mr. Ghamsari, work for us on an at-will basis, and there is no assurance that any such employee will remain with us. Our competitors may be successful in recruiting and hiring members of our management team or other key employees, and it may be difficult for us to find suitable replacements on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary employees, particularly in critical areas of our business, we may not achieve our strategic goals. Moreover, the implementation of the Workforce Reduction Plan or related initiatives may have adverse consequences on our employee morale, our culture, and our ability to attract and retain employees. In addition, from time to time, there may be changes in our senior management team that may be disruptive to our business. If our senior management team fails to work together effectively and to execute its plans and strategies, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face intense competition for highly skilled employees, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area where we have a substantial presence and need for highly skilled employees. To attract and retain top talent, we have offered, and we believe we will need to continue to offer, competitive compensation and benefits packages. Job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. The trading price of our Class A common stock has been volatile and has declined since our Initial Public Offering and may continue to fluctuate in response to various factors. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines for this or other reasons, it may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. In addition, due to declines in the trading price of our Class A common stock, in order to offer competitive compensation packages, we have issued, and may have to continue to issue more shares for equity awards to new and existing employees than in previous periods when the trading price of our Class A common stock was higher, which has and may continue to affect our outstanding share count and cause dilution to existing shareholders. Certain of our employees have received significant proceeds from sales of our equity in private transactions and many of our employees may receive significant proceeds from sales of our equity in the public markets, which may reduce their motivation to continue to work for us. We may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees and expend significant time and resources to identify, recruit, train, and integrate such employees, and we may never realize returns on these investments. If we are unable to effectively manage our hiring needs or successfully integrate new hires, our efficiency, ability to meet forecasts, and employee morale, productivity, and engagement could suffer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Misconduct and errors by our employees, partners, vendors, and other service providers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and reputation. 31 We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of misconduct and errors by our employees, partners, vendors, and other service providers. Our business depends on our employees, partners, vendors, and other service providers to enable the processing of a large number of increasingly complex transactions, including transactions that involve significant dollar amounts and loan and financial transactions that involve the collection, use, and disclosure of sensitive information, including personal information and confidential business information. We could be adversely affected if transactions were redirected, misappropriated, or otherwise improperly executed, sensitive information, including personal information and confidential business information, was accessible by or disclosed to unintended persons, or an operational breakdown or failure in the processing of other transactions occurred, whether as a result of human error, a purposeful sabotage or a fraudulent manipulation of our operations or systems. In addition, the manner in which we store and use certain personal information and interact with consumers, and the manner in which our customers interact with their customers through our platform is governed by various federal and state laws. It is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct or errors by employees, partners, vendors, or other service providers, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses. Any of these occurrences could result in our diminished ability to operate our business, potential liability to customers and consumers, inability to attract future customers and consumers, reputational damage, regulatory intervention, and financial harm, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and reputation. We are committed to expanding our platform and enhancing the user experience, which may not maximize short-term financial results and may yield results that conflict with the markets expectations, which could result in our stock price being adversely affected. We are passionate about expanding our platform and continually enhancing the user experience, with a focus on driving long-term engagement through innovation, the expansion of our platform, products, and services, and providing high-quality support, which may not necessarily maximize short-term financial results. We frequently make business decisions that may reduce our short-term financial results if we believe that the decisions are consistent with our goals to improve the user experience, which we believe will improve our financial results over the long term. These decisions may not be consistent with the short-term expectations of our stockholders and may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our growth, business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on assumptions, estimates, and unaudited financial information to calculate certain of our key metrics and other figures presented herein, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics could adversely affect our reputation and our business. Certain of the metrics presented herein are calculated using internal company data that has not been independently verified, data from third-party attribution partners, or unaudited financial information of companies that we have acquired or partnered with. While these metrics and figures are based on what we believe to be reasonable calculations for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring these metrics and figures across our client base and user base. Additionally, certain figures relating to our strategic acquisitions and partnerships are based on unaudited financial information that has been prepared by the management of such companies and has not been independently reviewed or audited. We cannot assure you that such financial information would not be materially different if such information was independently reviewed or audited. We regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating our metrics and other figures to improve their accuracy, but these efforts may not prove successful and we may discover material inaccuracies. In addition, our methodology for calculating these metrics may differ from the methodology used by other companies to calculate similar metrics and figures. We may also discover unexpected errors in the data that we are using that resulted from technical or other errors. If we determine that any of our metrics or figures are not accurate, we may be required to revise or cease reporting such metrics or figures. Any real or perceived inaccuracies in our metrics and other figures could adversely affect our reputation and our business. 32 Our marketing efforts to help grow our business may not be effective. Promoting awareness of our business is important to our ability to grow our business and to attract new customers and consumers and can be costly. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in the consumer lending industry expands. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of marketing efforts and the overall user experience of our customers and consumers on our platform, which factors are outside our control. The marketing channels that we employ may also become more crowded and saturated by other cloud-based software platforms, which may decrease the effectiveness of our marketing campaigns. Our marketing initiatives may become increasingly expensive and generating a meaningful return on these initiatives may be difficult. Even if we successfully increase revenue as a result of our paid marketing efforts, it may not offset the additional marketing expenses we incur. If our marketing efforts to help grow our business are not effective, we expect that our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Negative publicity about us, our partners, vendors, and other service providers, or the financial services technology industry, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. Negative publicity about us, our partners or the financial services technology industry, including the transparency, fairness, user experience, quality, and reliability of our platform, our or our partners privacy, data protection and information security practices, litigation, regulatory activity, misconduct by our employees, partners, vendors, or other service providers, or others in the financial services technology industry, the experience of consumers with our platform or services, or with our customers, even if inaccurate, could adversely affect our reputation and the confidence in, and the use of, our platform by customers and their consumers, which could harm our reputation and cause a loss of confidence in our platform. Any such reputational harm could further affect the behavior of customers and their consumers, including their willingness to use our platform. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Our company culture has contributed to our success and if we cannot maintain and evolve our culture as we grow, our business could be adversely affected. We believe that our company culture has been critical to our success. We have invested substantial time and resources in building out our team with an emphasis on our shared beliefs and practices and a commitment to diversity and inclusion. We face a number of challenges that may affect our ability to sustain our corporate culture, including: failure to identify, attract, reward, and retain people in our organization who share and further our culture, values, and mission; the increasing size and geographic diversity of our workforce, including as a result of remote work; competitive pressures to move in directions that may divert us from our mission, vision, and values; the continued challenges of a rapidly evolving industry; the increasing need to develop expertise in new areas of business that affect us; any negative perception of our response to employee sentiment related to political or social causes or actions of management; employee concerns regarding workforce reductions we have taken or may need to take in the future; harm to employee morale due to workforce reductions; challenges in our business and the macroeconomic environment; and the integration of new personnel and businesses from acquisitions. If we are not able to maintain and evolve our culture, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively combat the increasing number and sophistication of fraudulent activities by third parties using our platform, we may suffer losses, which may be substantial, and lose the confidence of our customers, and government agencies and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. 33 The title industry has been experiencing an increasing number of fraudulent activities by third parties, and those fraudulent activities are becoming increasingly sophisticated. Although we do not believe that any of this activity is uniquely targeted at our platform or business, this type of fraudulent activity may adversely affect our title business. In addition to any losses that may result from such fraud, which may be substantial, a loss of confidence by our customers, or governmental agencies in our ability to prevent fraudulent activity that is perpetrated through our software platform or business may seriously harm our business and damage its brand. As fraudulent activities become more pervasive and increasingly sophisticated, and fraud detection and prevention measures must become correspondingly more complex to combat them across the various industries in which we operate, we may implement risk control mechanisms that could make it more difficult for legitimate users to obtain access to and use our platform, which could result in lost revenue and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. High profile fraudulent activity or significant increases in fraudulent activity could also lead to regulatory intervention, negative publicity, and the erosion of trust from our customers and consumers, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our presence outside the United States and any future international expansion strategy will subject us to additional costs and risks and our plans may not be successful. We are considering expanding our presence internationally. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of Title365, we acquired Title365s India operations, which we expect to expand. Operating outside of the United States may require significant management attention to oversee operations over a broad geographic area with varying cultural norms and customs, in addition to placing strain on our finance, analytics, compliance, legal, engineering, and operations teams. We may incur significant operating expenses and may not be successful in our international expansion for a variety of reasons, including: recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees in foreign countries and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; an inability to attract and retain customers; complying with varying laws and regulatory standards, including with respect to financial services, labor and employment, data privacy, data protection, information security, tax, and local regulatory restrictions; obtaining any required government approvals, licenses, or other authorizations; varying levels of Internet and mobile technology adoption and infrastructure; currency exchange restrictions or costs and exchange rate fluctuations; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights in the same manner or to the same extent as the United States; public health concerns or emergencies, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and other highly communicable diseases or viruses (which COVID-19 pandemic has had a disproportionate impact on India), outbreaks of which have from time to time occurred, and which may occur, in various parts of the world in which we operate or may operate in the future; and limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds as well as foreign currency exchange restrictions. Our lack of experience in operating our business internationally increases the risk that any potential future expansion efforts that we may undertake may not be successful. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our operations internationally and are unable to manage these risks effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, international expansion may increase our risks in complying with various laws and standards, including with respect to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, export controls, and trade and economic sanctions. 34 We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Historically, we have financed our operations primarily through equity issuances and cash collections from our customers. In 2021, we also entered into a credit agreement that provides for a term facility and a revolving facility. The term facility was fully drawn at closing to provide, in part, the consideration being paid in connection with our acquisition of Title365. To support growing our business and to effectively compete, we must have sufficient capital to continue to make significant investments in our platform. We intend to continue to make investments to support the growth of our business and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new platform features and services or enhance our existing platform, improve our operating infrastructure, or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Additionally, we may consider adopting various employee compensation programs from time to time. The adoption of various employee compensation programs could result in us paying a greater percentage of our employees compensation in the form of cash or equity. This could result in us using a larger amount of our cash reserves for the payment of compensation in future periods or could result in us granting a greater number of our shares subject to equity awards, which could increase our overall dilution, increase our stock-based compensation expense for financial accounting purposes, and increase our tax withholding and remittance obligations. How we determine any such tax withholding obligations would be satisfied could further impact our cash position or increase dilution. Although we currently anticipate that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities and cash collections from our customers will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months, we may require additional financing. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity, equity-linked securities, or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges superior to those of holders of our Class A common stock. We evaluate financing opportunities from time to time, and our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, and operating performance and the condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be impaired, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the rules and regulations of the applicable listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and place significant strain on our systems, processes, and personnel. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure