Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Factors Summary Our business operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those outside of our control, that could cause our actual results to be harmed, including risks regarding the following: Risks related to our business and our industry: the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and measures intended to prevent its spread; our participation in government relief programs set up in response to the COVID-19 pandemic; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our brand; our ability to retain existing sellers, attract new sellers, and increase sales to both new and existing sellers, as well as our ability to attract and retain Cash App customers and grow their use of Cash App services; our investments in our business and ability to maintain profitability; our efforts to expand our product portfolio and market reach; our ability to develop products and services to address the rapidly evolving market for payments and financial services; competition in our industry; expanding our business globally; any acquisitions, strategic investments, entries into new businesses, joint ventures, divestitures and other transactions that we may undertake; and additional risks of Square Capital relating to the availability of capital, seller payments, availability and structure of its bank partnership, and expansion of its products. Operational risks: real or perceived improper or unauthorized use of, disclosure of, or access to sensitive data; security breaches or human error in administering our software, hardware, and systems; systems failures, interruptions, delays in service, catastrophic events, and resulting interruptions in the availability of our products or services or those of our sellers; any inability to access our private keys required to access our bitcoin or any hack or other data loss relating to the bitcoins we hold; our risk management efforts; our dependence on payment card networks and acquiring processors; our reliance on third parties and their systems for a variety of services, including the processing of transaction data and settlement of funds to us and our sellers; our dependence on key management and any failure to attract, motivate, and retain our employees; our operational, financial, and other internal controls and systems; the integration of our services with a variety of operating systems and the interoperation of our hardware that enables merchants to accept payment cards with third-party mobile devices utilizing such operating systems; any shortage, price increases, tariffs, changes, delay or discontinuation of our key components; and our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products and adequately manage our product inventory. Economic, financial, and tax risks: a deterioration of general macroeconomic conditions; any greater-than-anticipated tax liabilities or significant valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets; any inability to secure financing on favorable terms, or at all, or covenants in our existing credit agreement or future agreements; our ability to service our convertible senior notes; and counterparty risk with respect to our convertible note hedge transactions. 17 Legal, regulatory, and compliance risks: extensive regulation and oversight in a variety of areas of our business; complex and evolving regulations and oversight related to privacy and data protection; obligations and restrictions as a licensed money transmitter; regulation and scrutiny of our subsidiary Square Financial Services, which is a Utah state-chartered industrial bank, including the requirement that we serve as a source of financial strength to it; regulation and scrutiny of our subsidiary Cash App Investing, which is a broker-dealer registered with the SEC and a member of FINRA, including net capital and other regulatory capital requirements; changes to our business practices imposed by FINRA based on our ownership of Cash App Investing; litigation, including intellectual property claims, government investigations or inquiries, and regulatory matters or disputes; any inability to protect our intellectual property rights; and our bitcoin investments being subject to volatile market prices, impairment, and other risks of loss. Risks related to ownership of our common stock: the dual class structure of our common stock; volatility of the market price of our Class A common stock; our convertible note hedge and warrant transactions; anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws, and provisions of Delaware law; and exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and measures intended to prevent its spread have had, and may continue to have, a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Global health concerns relating to the COVID-19 pandemic and related government actions taken to reduce the spread of the virus have been weighing on the macroeconomic environment, and the pandemic has significantly increased economic uncertainty and reduced economic activity. Small businesses, which constitute a large part of our sellers, have been impacted particularly hard. The pandemic has resulted in government authorities and businesses implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place or total lock-down orders, school closures, and business limitations and shutdowns. Such measures have contributed significantly to increased unemployment and negatively impacted consumer and business spending. The pandemic has adversely impacted, and is likely to continue to adversely impact, our operations and the operations of our customers and business partners. For example, our customer support for Cash App was operating at reduced levels for some time, as certain vendors we had used to perform such functions had to shut down some operations. The pandemic has caused us to modify our business practices to help minimize the risk of the virus to our employees, our customers, and the communities in which we participate, which could negatively impact our business. These measures include temporarily requiring employees to work remotely, suspending all non-essential business travel for our employees, limiting external guests visiting our offices, and canceling, postponing, or holding meetings and events virtually. Given the continually evolving situation, there is no certainty that the measures we have taken will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the virus. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, results of operations, and financial condition will depend on developments that continue to be highly uncertain and difficult to predict, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of the pandemic, its severity, the actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, the availability, distribution and efficacy of vaccines, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided, we may experience material and adverse impacts to our business as a result of the viruss global economic impact, including the availability of credit, bankruptcies or insolvencies of customers, and recession or economic downturn. There are no comparable recent events that provide guidance as to the effect the COVID-19 pandemic may have, and, as a result, the ultimate impact of the pandemic is highly uncertain and subject to change. We do not yet know the full extent of the impacts on our business, our operations, or the global economy as a whole. However, the effects could have a 18 material impact on our results of operations and heighten many of the known risks described throughout this Risk Factors section. Our participation in government relief programs set up in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, such as facilitating loans to businesses under the Paycheck Protection Program or unemployment benefits and stimulus payments to individuals through Cash App, may subject us to new risks and uncertainties. Federal, state, local, and foreign governmental authorities have enacted, and may enact in the future, legislation, regulations, and programs in response to the COVID-19 pandemic intended to provide economic relief to businesses and individuals. Our participation in, or facilitation of, such programs may expose us to new risks and uncertainties. Square Capital is an approved participant under the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) administered by the Small Business Administration (SBA) and enacted in March 2020 under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act ("CARES Act") in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Recently, the PPP was extended until March 31, 2021 and an additional $284 billion was allocated to fund a second round of PPP loans. The PPP was intended to provide funding for businesses so they can retain employees and includes initial loan repayment deferrals and debt forgiveness provisions for eligible borrowers. Additionally, borrowers may now qualify for a second-draw loan generally under the same terms and conditions as their initial loans. Small businesses who received a PPP loan previously can apply for a second loan if they: (i) employ fewer than 300 employees, (ii) experienced at least a 25% decrease in revenue in any quarter in 2020 relative to same quarter in 2019, and (iii) have already used or will use the full amount of their first PPP loan. Under the program, Square Capital, through a bank partner (and directly with respect to the second round of PPP loans), provides small businesses two-year or five-year loans at a fixed interest rate of one percent for up to 2.5 times (or 3.5 times with respect to restaurants qualifying for a second PPP loan) the borrowers monthly payroll expenses. The loan is forgiven under the program if the loan proceeds are used for specified expenses, including payroll and benefit costs, rent payments, utilities, and mortgage and certain interest expenses; provided that at least 60% of the loan proceeds are utilized for qualifying payroll costs and the borrower maintains or rehires employees during the specified periods. As of December 31, 2020, Square Capital had facilitated approximately $857 million of PPP loans, excluding cancelled loans. Square Capital has retained some of these PPP loans in its portfolio, but also sold 100% participation rights in certain PPP loans to an institutional third-party investor. In addition, Square Capital has borrowed money from the Federal Reserve secured by PPP loans in its portfolio. Square Capital expects to continue to retain PPP loans from the second round of the PPP in its portfolio and to continue to access funds from the Federal Reserve secured by such PPP loans. As a participant in the PPP, Square Capital is exposed to new risks and uncertainties since certain processes and program requirements are still being developed, iterated upon, and have not yet been tested, which exposes us to risks related to documentation, verification, forgiveness, and servicing of such loans. In the event that it is determined that a borrower does not qualify for loan forgiveness or if a borrower defaults on its PPP loan, Square Capital is at risk to the extent the SBA may decline to honor its guarantee or to forgive the loan due to documentation or verification errors, failure to follow regulatory requirements, or lack of adherence to underwriting standards. As a result, Square Capitals documentation and review and underwriting processes will be subject to scrutiny, and we could incur losses if we fail to comply with the SBA documentation and other requirements. We also may become subject to litigation arising as a result of our participation in this program, which could result in significant financial liability or could adversely affect our reputation. There can be no assurance that Square Capital will be successful in mitigating all of the risks associated with the PPP or that this lending will not have a negative impact on Square Capitals business and results of operations. Separately, the CARES Act and the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 provided for stimulus funds, called economic impact payments, to individuals, expanded eligibility for unemployment benefits, increased the amount of unemployment insurance benefits, and extended the period for such payments. Cash App has been facilitating the payment of such stimulus funds and unemployment benefits by offering account and routing numbers that customers can use to deposit such payments directly into their Cash App accounts and accepting cash-in deposits from prepaid cards issued by state governments. Cash App has also worked with partner banks to expand direct deposit eligibility for its customers. The federal stimulus programs were set up quickly and under difficult and unprecedented circumstances and the implementation of these programs at the federal, state, and local levels has been complex and difficult, causing them to be more susceptible to fraud, data breaches, technical difficulties, and other new and uncertain risks. Cash Apps facilitation of unemployment and stimulus payments may therefore expose us to operational, compliance, reputational, and legal risks, which could result in governmental action, litigation, or other forms of material and adverse loss. 19 Our business depends on a strong and trusted brand, and any failure to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand would hurt our business. We have developed a strong and trusted brand that has contributed significantly to the success of our business. We believe that maintaining and promoting our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our products and services and expanding our base of customers. Maintaining and promoting our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide useful, reliable, secure, and innovative products and services, as well as our ability to maintain trust and be a technology leader. We may introduce, or make changes to, features, products, services, privacy practices, or terms of service that customers do not like, which may materially and adversely affect our brand. Our brand promotion activities may not generate customer awareness or increase revenue, and even if they do, any increase in revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business could be materially and adversely affected. The introduction and promotion of new services, as well as the promotion of existing services, may be partly dependent on our visibility on third-party advertising platforms, such as Google, Twitter, or Facebook. Changes in the way these platforms operate or changes in their advertising prices, data use practices or other terms could make the maintenance and promotion of our products and services and our brand more expensive or more difficult. If we are unable to market and promote our brand on third-party platforms effectively, our ability to acquire new customers would be materially harmed. We also use retail partners to sell hardware and acquire customers. Our ability to acquire new customers could be materially harmed if we are unable to enter into or maintain these partnerships on terms that are commercially reasonable to us, or at all. Harm to our brand can arise from many sources, including failure by us or our partners and service providers to satisfy expectations of service and quality; inadequate protection or misuse of sensitive information; fraud committed by third parties using our products or applications; compliance failures and claims; litigation and other claims; and misconduct by our partners, service providers, or other counterparties. We have also been from time to time in the past, and may in the future be, the target of incomplete, inaccurate, and misleading or false statements about our company and our business that could damage our brand and deter customers from adopting our services. Any negative publicity about our industry or our company, the quality and reliability of our products and services, our risk management processes, changes to our products and services, our ability to effectively manage and resolve customer complaints, our privacy, data protection, and information security practices, litigation, regulatory activity, policy positions, and the experience of our customers with our products or services could adversely affect our reputation and the confidence in and use of our products and services. If we do not successfully maintain a strong and trusted brand, our business could be materially and adversely affected. As our revenue has increased, our growth rate has slowed at times in the past and may slow or decline in the future, and our growth rates in each of our reporting segments may vary. Future revenue growth depends on our ability to retain existing sellers, attract new sellers, and increase sales to both new and existing sellers, as well as our ability to attract and retain Cash App customers and grow their use of Cash App services. Our rate of revenue growth has slowed at times in the past and may decline in the future, and it may slow or decline more quickly than we expect for a variety of reasons, including the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additionally, our rate of revenue growth may vary between our two reporting segments. For example, in recent periods our Cash App segment revenue has grown at a high rate, which has varied and may continue to vary from the growth rate of our Seller segment. Our customers have no obligation to continue to use our services, and we cannot assure you that they will. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers, and the difficulty and costs associated with switching to a competitor may not be significant for many of the services we offer, both in the seller ecosystem and the Cash App ecosystem. Our sellers activity with us may decrease for a variety of reasons, including sellers level of satisfaction with our products and services, our pricing and the pricing and quality of competing products or services, the effects of global economic conditions, or reductions in the aggregate spending of our sellers customers. The COVID-19 pandemic caused some sellers to close or curtail operations, which negatively impacted our Seller revenue. The growth of our business depends in part on existing sellers and Cash App customers expanding their use of our products and services. If we are unable to encourage broader use of our services by our sellers and Cash App customers, our growth may slow or stop, and our business may be materially and adversely affected. The growth of our business also depends on our ability to attract new sellers and Cash App customers, to encourage larger sellers to use our products and services, and to introduce successful new products and services. We have experienced rapid growth in the number of monthly transacting active Cash App customers in recent periods. Growth in monthly transacting active Cash App customers and such customers level of engagement with our products and services are essential to our success and long-term financial 20 performance. However, the growth rate of monthly transacting active Cash App customers has fluctuated over time, and it may slow or decline in the future. A number of factors have affected and could potentially negatively affect Cash App customer growth and engagement, including our ability to introduce new products and services that are compelling to our customers, the network effects of other customers choosing whether to use Cash App, technical or other problems that affect customer experience, failure to provide sufficient customer support, fraud and scams targeting Cash App customers, and harm to our reputation and brand. Further, certain events or programs, such as government stimulus programs may correlate with periods of significant growth, but such growth may not be sustainable. Additionally, the growth rate of Cash App revenue may be distorted by the prices of bitcoin, as bitcoin revenue may increase or decrease due to the price of bitcoin and may not correlate to customer or engagement growth rates. We have invested and will continue to invest in improving our Square platform in order to offer better or new features, products, and services and to adjust our product offerings to changing economic conditions, but if those features, products, services, and changes fail to be successful, our growth may slow or decline. We have generated significant net losses in the past, and we intend to continue to invest substantially in our business. Thus, we may not be able to maintain profitability. While we generated net income of $213.1 million and $375.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, we generated net losses of $38.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. As of December 31, 2020, we had an accumulated deficit of $297.2 million. We intend to continue to make significant investments in our business, including with respect to our employee base; sales and marketing; development of new products, services, and features; acquisitions; infrastructure; expansion of international operations; and general administration, including legal, finance, and other compliance expenses related to our business. If the costs associated with acquiring and supporting new or larger sellers, attracting and supporting new Cash App customers, or with developing and supporting our products and services materially increase in the future, including the fees we pay to third parties to advertise our products and services, our expenses may rise significantly. In addition, increases in our seller base could cause us to incur increased losses because costs associated with new sellers are generally incurred up front, while revenue is recognized in future periods as our products and services are transferred to our sellers. If we are unable to generate adequate revenue growth and manage our expenses, we may incur significant losses and may not maintain profitability on a consistent basis. From time to time, we have made and may make decisions that will have a negative effect on our short-term operating results if we believe those decisions will improve our operating results over the long term. These decisions may not be consistent with the expectations of investors and may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our efforts to expand our product portfolio and market reach may not succeed and may reduce our revenue growth. While we have grown the proportion of revenue from newer products and services from each of the Cash App and Seller segments and we intend to continue to broaden the scope of products and services we offer, we may not be successful in maintaining or growing our current revenue streams, or deriving any significant new revenue streams from these products and services. Failure to successfully broaden the scope of products and services that are attractive may inhibit our growth and harm our business. Furthermore, we expect to continue to expand our markets in the future, and we may have limited or no experience in such newer markets. We cannot assure you that any of our products or services will be widely accepted in any market or that they will continue to grow in revenue. Our offerings may present new and difficult technological, operational, regulatory, risks, and other challenges, and if we experience service disruptions, failures, or other issues, our business may be materially and adversely affected. For example, our Cash App products are intended to make investing in certain assets, such as bitcoin, stocks, and exchange-traded funds, more accessible. However, as a result, our customers who use these products may experience losses or other financial impacts due to, among other things, market fluctuations in the prices of bitcoin and stocks. If our users are adversely affected by such risks, they may cease using the product or Cash App altogether and our business, brand, and reputation may be adversely affected. Further, our newer activities may not lead to growth or recoup our investments in a timely manner or at all and may require significant management time and attention. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and materially and adversely affect our business. 21 Our long-term success depends on our ability to develop products and services to address the rapidly evolving market for payments and financial services, and, if we are not able to implement successful enhancements and new features for our products and services, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Rapid and significant technological changes continue to confront the industries in which we operate, including developments in omnichannel commerce, proximity payment devices (including contactless payments via NFC technology), digital banking, mobile financial apps, as well as developments in cryptocurrencies and in tokenization, which replaces sensitive data (e.g., payment card information) with symbols (tokens) to keep the data safe in the event that it is stolen or viewed by unauthorized third parties. These new services and technologies may be superior to, impair, or render obsolete the products and services we currently offer or the technologies we currently use to provide them. Incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require substantial expenditures and take considerable time, and we may not be successful in realizing a return on these development efforts in a timely manner or at all. Our ability to develop new products and services may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, payment card networks, existing and future laws and regulations, resistance to change from our customers, which includes our sellers and their customers, or third parties intellectual property rights. Our success will depend on our ability to develop new technologies and to adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to provide enhancements and new features for our products and services or to develop new products and services that achieve market acceptance or that keep pace with rapid technological developments and evolving industry standards, our business would be materially and adversely affected. We often rely, not only on our own initiatives and innovations, but also on third parties, including some of our competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies and development of a robust market for these new products and technologies. Failure to accurately predict or to respond effectively to developments in our industry may significantly impair our business. In addition, because our products and services are designed to operate with a variety of systems, infrastructures, and devices, we need to continuously modify and enhance our products and services to keep pace with changes in technologies. Moreover, our success may depend on our ability to provide products and services that are tailored to specific needs and requirements of our customers. Any failure of our products and services to continue to operate effectively with third-party infrastructures and technologies could reduce the demand for our products and services, result in dissatisfaction of our customers, and materially and adversely affect our business. Substantial and increasingly intense competition in our industry may harm our business. We compete in markets characterized by vigorous competition, changing technology, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. We expect competition to intensify in the future as existing and new competitors introduce new services or enhance existing services. For example, companies not traditionally associated with the payments industry have introduced products or services that are or may become competitive with our business. We compete against many companies to attract customers both within our seller ecosystem and our Cash App ecosystem, and some of these companies have greater financial resources and substantially larger bases of customers than we do, which may provide them with significant competitive advantages. These companies may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of products and services, may achieve economies of scale due to the size of their customer bases, and may more effectively introduce their own innovative products and services that adversely impact our growth. Mergers and acquisitions by these companies may lead to even larger competitors with more resources. Certain sellers have long-standing exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to accept payment cards and other services that compete with what we offer. These relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to conduct material amounts of business with them. Competing services tied to established brands may engender greater confidence in the safety and efficacy of their services. If we are unable to differentiate ourselves from and successfully compete with our competitors, our business will be materially and adversely affected. We may also face pricing pressures from competitors. Some competitors may offer lower prices to sellers for similar services by cross-subsidizing their payments services through other services they offer. Such competition may result in the need for us to alter the pricing we offer to our sellers and could reduce our gross profit. In addition, sellers may demand more customized and favorable pricing from us, and competitive pressures may require us to agree to such pricing, further reducing our gross profit. We currently negotiate pricing discounts and other incentive arrangements with certain large sellers to 22 increase acceptance and usage of our products and services. If we continue this practice and if an increasing proportion of our sellers are large sellers, we may have to increase the discounts or incentives we provide, which could also reduce our gross profit. Expanding our business globally could subject us to new challenges and risks. We currently offer our services and products in multiple countries and plan to continue expanding our business further globally. Expansion, whether in our existing or new global markets, will require additional resources and controls, and offering our services in new geographic regions often requires substantial expenditures and takes considerable time. We may not be successful enough in these new geographies to recoup our investments in a timely manner or at all. Such expansion could also subject our business to substantial risks, including: difficulty in attracting a sufficient number of sellers or Cash App customers; failure to anticipate competitive conditions and competition with service providers or other market-players that have greater experience in the local markets than we do; failure to conform with applicable business customs, including translation into foreign languages, cultural context, and associated expenses; increased costs and difficulty in protecting intellectual property and sensitive data; changes to the way we do business as compared with our current operations or a lack of acceptance of our products and services; the ability to support and integrate with local third-party service providers; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations in an environment of diverse culture, laws, and customs, challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, and the increased travel, infrastructure, and legal and compliance costs associated with global operations; difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified employees and maintaining our company culture; difficulty in gaining acceptance from industry self-regulatory bodies; compliance with multiple, potentially conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including with respect to payments, data privacy, data protection, and information security; compliance with U.S. and foreign anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and anti-money laundering laws; potential tariffs, sanctions, fines, or other trade restrictions; exchange rate risk; compliance with complex and potentially conflicting and changing laws of taxing jurisdictions where we conduct business and applicable U.S. tax laws; increased exposure to public health issues such as the current COVID-19 pandemic, and related industry and governmental actions to address these issues; and regional economic and political instability and other geopolitical risks. As a result of these risks, our efforts to expand our global operations may not be successful, which could limit our ability to grow our business. 23 Any acquisitions, strategic investments, entries into new businesses, joint ventures, divestitures, and other transactions could fail to achieve strategic objectives, disrupt our ongoing operations or result in operating difficulties, liabilities and expenses, harm our business, and negatively impact our results of operations. In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions and evaluate opportunities for possible acquisitions, strategic investments, entries into new businesses, joint ventures, divestitures, and other transactions. We have in the past acquired or invested in, and we continue to seek to acquire or invest, in businesses technologies or other assets that we believe could complement or expand our business. The identification, evaluation, and negotiation of potential transactions may divert the attention of management and entail various expenses, whether or not such transactions are ultimately completed. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, and consummating favorable transaction opportunities. In addition to transaction and opportunity costs, these transactions involve large challenges and risks, whether or not such transactions are completed, any of which could harm our business and negatively impact our results of operations, including risks that: the transaction may not advance our business strategy; we may not be able to secure required regulatory approvals or otherwise satisfy closing conditions for a proposed transaction in a timely manner, or at all; the transaction may subject us to additional regulatory burdens that affect our business in potentially unanticipated and significantly negative ways; we may not realize a satisfactory return or increase our revenue; we may experience difficulty, and may not be successful in, integrating technologies, IT or business enterprise systems, culture, or management or other personnel of the acquired business; we may incur significant acquisition costs and transition costs, including in connection with the assumption of ongoing expenses of the acquired business; we may not realize the expected benefits or synergies from the transaction in the expected time period, or at all; we may be unable to retain key personnel; acquired businesses or businesses that we invest in may not have adequate controls, processes, and procedures to ensure compliance with laws and regulations, including with respect to data privacy and security, and our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities. Moreover, acquired businesses technology stacks may add complexity, resource constraints, and technological debt that makes it difficult and time consuming to achieve such adequate controls, processes, and procedures. we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings, or other circumstances prior to acquiring or investing in a business, which could result in additional financial, legal, or regulatory exposure, which may subject us to additional controls, policies, procedures, liabilities, litigation, costs of compliance or remediation, or other adverse effects on our business, operating results, or financial condition; we may have difficulty entering into new market segments or new geographic territories; we may be unable to retain the customers, vendors, and partners of acquired businesses; there may be lawsuits or regulatory actions resulting from the transaction; there may be risks associated with undetected security weaknesses, cyberattacks, or security breaches at companies that we acquire or with which we may combine or partner; there may be local and foreign regulations applicable to the international activities of our business and the businesses we acquire; and 24 acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt. We may also choose to divest certain businesses or product lines. If we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty obtaining terms acceptable to us in a timely manner, or at all. Additionally, we may experience difficulty separating out portions of, or entire, businesses, incur potential loss of revenue or experience negative impact on margins, or we may not achieve the desired strategic and financial benefits. For example, in 2019, we completed the sale of Caviar to DoorDash in exchange for cash and stock consideration. Following DoorDashs initial public offering, we are required to mark to market our equity holdings each quarter, which may result in fluctuations of our results of operations due to the trading price of DoorDashs Class A common stock. Further, because we are subject to a lock-up agreement with respect to such holdings, we are restricted from selling all of our equity holdings for a period of 180 days following DoorDash's IPO, and there can be no assurances that we will fully realize the value of the stock consideration once we are able to sell. Such potential transactions may also delay achievement of our strategic objectives, cause us to incur additional expenses, potentially disrupt customer or employee relationships, and expose us to unanticipated or ongoing obligations and liabilities, including as a result of our indemnification obligations. Further, during the pendency of a divestiture, we may be subject to risks related to a decline in the business, loss of employees, customers, or suppliers and the risk that the transaction may not close, any of which would have a material adverse effect on the business to be divested and the Company. If a divestiture is not completed for any reason, we may not be able to find another buyer on the same terms, and we may have incurred significant costs without the corresponding benefit. Joint ventures and minority investments inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational, regulatory, and/or compliance risks associated with the joint venture or minority investment. In addition, we may be dependent on joint venture partners, controlling shareholders, management, or other persons or entities who control them and who may have business interests, strategies, or goals that are inconsistent with ours. Business decisions or other actions or omissions of the joint venture partners, controlling shareholders, management, or other persons or entities who control them may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us, and may otherwise damage our reputation and brand. Square Capital is subject to additional risks relating to the availability of capital, seller payments, availability and structure of its bank partnership, expansion of its products, regulatory obligations, and general macroeconomic conditions. Square Capital, which includes our wholly owned subsidiary Square Capital, LLC, is subject to risks in addition to those described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Maintaining and growing Square Capital is dependent on institutional third-party investors purchasing the eligible business loans originated by our bank partner. If such third parties fail to continue to purchase such business loans or reduce the amount of future loans they purchase, then our bank partner may need to reduce originations, or we would need to fund the purchase of additional business loans from our own resources. We then may have to reduce the scale of Square Capital, which could have a direct impact on our ability to grow. Additionally, Square Capital has certain customary repurchase obligations in its loan purchase and servicing agreements with such institutional third party investors for breaches of certain eligibility representations and warranties. If third parties reduce the price they are willing to pay for these business loans or reduce the servicing fees they pay us in exchange for servicing the business loans on their behalf, then the financial performance of Square Capital would be harmed. The business loans are generally unsecured obligations of our Square sellers who utilize Square Capital, and they are not guaranteed or insured in any way. Adverse changes in macroeconomic conditions or the credit quality of our Square sellers could cause some Square sellers who utilize Square Capital to cease operating or to experience a decline in their payment processing volume, thereby rendering them unable to make payment on the business loan and/or extend the repayment period beyond the contractual repayment terms on the business loan. To the extent a seller breaches a contractual obligation, such as the requirement to make minimum payments or other breach, the seller would be liable for an accelerated business loan repayment, where Square Capital's recourse is to the business and not to any individual or other asset. In addition, because the servicing fees we receive from third party investors depend on the collectability of the business loans, if there is an increase in Square sellers who utilize Square Capital who are unable to make repayment of business loans, we will be unable to collect our entire servicing fee for such loans. While our exposure to loans that we sell to third parties is more limited, we expect that the impact of COVID-19 on loan performance will increase risk loss for our owned loan portfolio. In addition, adverse changes in macroeconomic conditions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic have led to a decrease in the number of sellers eligible for Square Capital facilitated business loans and strained our ability to correctly identify such sellers on behalf of our bank partner or manage the risk of non-payment or fraud as servicer of the business 25 loans. As a result, Square Capital ceased to facilitate new business loans, with the exception of PPP loans, during the second quarter of 2020. In the third quarter of 2020, Square Capital resumed offering its regular business loans under stricter eligibility criteria, but it remains uncertain at what levels Square Capital will facilitate such business loans. If we fail to correctly predict the likelihood of timely repayment or correctly price such business loans, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We have partnered, on a non-exclusive basis, with a Utah-chartered, member FDIC industrial bank to originate the loans. Such bank may offer products that compete with ours. The bank is subject to oversight both by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the State of Utah. Due to the fact that we are a service-provider to our bank partner, we are subject to audit standards for third-party vendors in accordance with FDIC guidance and examinations by the FDIC. There has been, and may continue to be, regulatory interest in and/or litigation challenging partnered lending arrangements where a bank makes loans and then sells and assigns such loans to a non-bank entity that is engaged in assisting with the origination and servicing of the loan. If our bank partner ceases to partner with us, ceases to abide by the terms of our agreement with them, or cannot partner with us on commercially reasonable terms, and we are not able to find suitable alternatives and/or make business loans ourselves pursuant to state licensing requirements, Square Capital may need to enter into a new partnership with another qualified financial institution or pursue an alternative model for originating business loans, all of which may be time-consuming and costly and/or lead to a loss of institutional third-party investors willing to purchase such business loans, and as a result Square Capital may be materially and adversely affected. We intend to continue to explore other products, models, and structures for Square Capital, including forming a Utah industrial bank and other forms of credit and loan products. Some of those models or structures may require, or be deemed to require, additional data, procedures, partnerships, licenses, regulatory approvals, or capabilities that we have not yet obtained or developed. The licenses required in connection with our lending program and other activities related to the Square Capital program subject us to reporting requirements, bonding requirements, and inspection by applicable state regulatory agencies. Should we fail to expand and evolve Square Capital in a successful manner, or should these new products, models or structures, or new regulations or interpretations of existing regulations, impose requirements on us that are impractical or that we cannot satisfy, the future growth and success of Square Capital may be materially and adversely affected. Operational Risks We, our sellers, our partners, and others who use our services obtain and process a large amount of sensitive data. Any real or perceived improper or unauthorized use of, disclosure of, or access to such data could harm our reputation as a trusted brand, as well as have a material and adverse effect on our business. We, our sellers, and our partners, including third-party vendors and data centers that we use, obtain and process large amounts of sensitive data, including data related to our customers, our sellers customers, and their transactions. We face risks, including to our reputation as a trusted brand, in the handling and protection of this data. These risks will increase as our business continues to expand to include new products, subsidiaries, and technologies, and as we and our third party vendors rely on an increasingly distributed workforce. Our operations involve the storage and transmission of sensitive information of individuals and businesses using our services, including their names, addresses, social security/tax ID numbers (or their foreign equivalents), government IDs, payment card numbers and expiration dates, bank account information, loans they have applied for or obtained, and data regarding the performance of our sellers businesses. Additionally, certain of our products and services are subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (and the rules and regulations thereunder, as amended, including with respect to the HITECH Act) (HIPAA), and therefore we are required to take measures to safeguard protected health information of our sellers and their customers. Our services also provide third party developers the opportunity to provide applications to our sellers in the Square and Weebly app marketplaces. Sellers who choose to use such applications can grant permission allowing the applications to access content created or held by sellers in their Square or Weebly account. Should our internal or third party developers experience or cause a breach or a technological bug, that could lead to a compromise of the content of data held by such sellers, including personal data. If our privacy and security measures or those of third party developers and vendors are inadequate or are breached, and, as a result, there is improper disclosure of or someone obtains unauthorized access to or exfiltrates funds or other sensitive information on our systems or our partners systems, or if we, our third party developers or vendors suffer a ransomware or advanced persistent threat attack, or if any of the foregoing is reported or perceived to have occurred, our reputation and business could be damaged. If the sensitive information is lost or improperly accessed, misused, disclosed, destroyed, or altered or threatened to be improperly accessed, misused, disclosed, destroyed, or altered, we could incur 26 significant financial losses and costs and liability associated with remediation and the implementation of additional security measures and be subject to litigation, regulatory scrutiny, and investigations. Under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors and other counterparties, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store or that is stored by our sellers or other third parties with which we do business, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for certain of their costs and expenses. Additionally, if our own confidential business information were improperly disclosed, our business could be materially and adversely affected. A core aspect of our business is the reliability and security of our payments platforms. Any perceived or actual breach of security, regardless of how it occurs or the extent of the breach, could have a significant impact on our reputation as a trusted brand, cause us to lose existing sellers or other customers, prevent us from obtaining new sellers and other customers, require us to expend significant funds to remedy problems caused by breaches and to implement measures to prevent further breaches, and expose us to legal risk and potential liability including those resulting from governmental or regulatory investigations, class action litigation, and costs associated with remediation, such as fraud monitoring and forensics. Any actual or perceived security breach at a company providing services to us or our customers could have similar effects. Further, any actual or perceived security breach with respect to the bitcoin and blockchain ledger, regardless of whether such breach directly affects our products and services, could have negative reputational effects and harm customer trust in us and our products and services. While we maintain cybersecurity insurance, our insurance may be insufficient to cover all liabilities incurred by such attacks. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate for data handling or data security liabilities actually incurred, that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, premiums, or deductibles could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition, operating results, and reputation. Our products and services may not function as intended due to errors in our software, hardware, and systems, product defects, or due to security breaches or human error in administering these systems, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our software, hardware, systems, and processes may contain undetected errors or vulnerabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, particularly to the extent such errors or vulnerabilities are not detected and remedied quickly. We have from time to time found defects in our customer-facing software and hardware, internal systems, and technical integrations with third-party systems, and new errors or vulnerabilities may be introduced in the future. If there are such errors or defects in our software, hardware, or systems, we may face negative publicity, government investigations, and litigation. Additionally, we rely on a limited number of component and product suppliers located outside of the U.S. to manufacture our products. As a result, our direct control over production and distribution is limited and it is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality of our products. If there are defects in the manufacture of our hardware products, we may face similar negative publicity, investigations, and litigation, and we may not be fully compensated by our suppliers for any financial or other liability that we suffer as a result. As our hardware and software services continue to increase in size and complexity, and as we integrate new, acquired subsidiaries with different technology stacks and practices, these risks may correspondingly increase as well. In addition, we provide frequent incremental releases of product and service updates and functional enhancements, which increase the possibility of errors. The products and services we provide are designed to process complex transactions and deliver reports and other information related to those transactions, all at high volumes and processing speeds. Any errors, data leaks, security breaches, disruptions in services, or other performance problems with our products or services caused by external or internal actors could hurt our reputation and damage our customers businesses. Software and system errors, or human error, could delay or inhibit settlement of payments, result in oversettlement, cause reporting errors, or prevent us from collecting transaction-based fees, all of which have occurred in the past. Similarly, security breaches such as cyber-attacks or identity theft could disrupt the proper functioning of our software products or services, cause errors, allow unauthorized access, or disclosure of, to sensitive, proprietary, or confidential information of ours or our customers, and other destructive outcomes. Moreover, security breaches or errors in our hardware or software design or manufacture could cause product safety issues typical of consumer electronics devices. Such issues could lead to product recalls and inventory shortages, result in costly and time-consuming efforts to redesign and redistribute our products, give rise to regulatory inquiries and investigations, and result in lawsuits and other liabilities and losses, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. 27 Additionally, electronic payment, hardware, and software products and services, including ours, have been, and could continue to be in the future, specifically targeted and penetrated or disrupted by hackers and other malicious actors. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to data, products, and services and to disable, degrade, or sabotage them change frequently and may be difficult to detect or remediate for long periods of time, we and our customers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures to stop them. If we or our sellers or other customers are unable to anticipate or prevent these attacks, our sellers' or other customers may be harmed, our reputation could be damaged, and we could incur significant liability. Systems failures, interruptions, delays in service, catastrophic events, and resulting interruptions in the availability of our products or services, or those of our sellers, could harm our business and our brand, and subject us to substantial liability. Our systems and those of our third-party vendors, including data center facilities, may experience service interruptions, outages, cyber-attacks and security incidents, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, pandemics, fires, other natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks and other geopolitical unrest, computer viruses, changes in social, political, or regulatory conditions or in laws and policies, or other changes or events. Our systems and facilities are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and acts of vandalism. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster-recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, as a provider of payments solutions and other financial services, we are subject to increased scrutiny by regulators that may require specific business continuity and disaster recovery plans and more rigorous testing of such plans. This increased scrutiny may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our resources from other business priorities. We have experienced and will likely continue to experience denial-of-service and other cyber-attacks, system failures, outages, security incidents, and other events or conditions that interrupt the availability, data integrity, or reduce the speed or functionality of our products and services. These events have resulted and likely will result in loss of revenue. In addition, they could result in significant expense to repair or replace damaged equipment and remedy resultant data loss or corruption. More generally, the COVID-19 pandemic has increased attack opportunities available to criminals, as they attempt to profit from disruptions and the resulting shift in companies and individuals working remotely and online, as well as the increase in electronic payments, e-commerce, and other online activity. As such, the risk of cybersecurity incidents is increasing, and we cannot provide assurances that our preventative efforts will be successful. A prolonged interruption in the availability or reduction in the speed or other functionality of our products or services could materially harm our reputation and business. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our products and services could cause customers to believe that our products and services are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our products and services, and could permanently harm our reputation and business. Moreover, to the extent that any system failure or similar event results in damages to customers or contractual counterparties, these customers and contractual counterparties could seek compensation from us for their losses, and those claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address. A significant natural or man-made disaster could have a material and adverse impact on our business. Our headquarters and certain of our data center facilities are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our headquarters or data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our services or could result in related liabilities. We do not maintain insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that could result from disruptions to our services. Significant natural or other disasters, including pandemics, could also have a material and adverse impact on our sellers or other customers, which, in the aggregate, could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. The loss or destruction of a private key required to access our bitcoin may be irreversible. If we are unable to access our private keys or if we experience a hack or other data loss relating to the bitcoins we hold on behalf of customers, our customers may be unable to access their bitcoins and it could harm customer trust in us and our products. Bitcoins are controllable only by the possessor of both the unique public key and private key relating to the local or online digital wallet in which the bitcoins are held. While the bitcoin and blockchain ledger require a public key relating to a digital wallet to be published when used in a transaction, private keys must be safeguarded and kept private in order to prevent a third party from accessing the bitcoins held in such wallet. To the extent our private key is lost, destroyed, or otherwise compromised and no backup of the private key is accessible, we will be unable to access the bitcoins held in the related digital wallet. Further, we cannot provide assurance that our wallet will not be hacked or compromised. The bitcoin 28 and blockchain ledger, as well as other cryptocurrencies and blockchain technologies, have been, and may in the future be, subject to security breaches, hacking, or other malicious activities. Any loss of private keys relating to, or hack or other compromise of, digital wallets used to store our customers bitcoins could adversely affect our customers ability to access or sell their bitcoins and could harm customer trust in us and our products, require us to expend significant funds for remediation, and expose us to litigation and other potential liability. Additionally, any loss of private keys relating to, or hack or other compromise of, digital wallets used by third parties to store bitcoins or other cryptocurrencies could have negative reputational effects on us and harm customer trust in us and our products. As the number of customers who use our bitcoin product has increased and the value of bitcoins we hold on behalf of such customers has grown significantly, the risks and consequences of such adverse events have increased and could materially and adversely affect our business. Our risk management efforts may not be effective, which could expose us to losses and liability and otherwise harm our business. We offer payments and other products and services to a large number of customers. We have programs to vet and monitor these customers and the transactions we process for them as part of our risk management efforts, but such programs require continuous improvement and may not be effective in detecting and preventing fraud and illegitimate transactions. When our payments services are used to process illegitimate transactions, and we settle those funds to customers and are unable to recover them, we suffer losses and liability. As a greater number of larger sellers use our services, our exposure to material risk losses from a single seller, or from a small number of sellers, will increase. Illegitimate transactions can also expose us to governmental and regulatory enforcement actions and potentially prevent us from satisfying our contractual obligations to our third party partners, which may cause us to be in breach of our obligations. The highly automated nature of, and liquidity offered by, our payments and peer-to-peer services make us a target for illegal or improper uses, including scams and fraud directed at Cash App customers, fraudulent or illegal sales of goods or services, money laundering, and terrorist financing. Identity thieves and those committing fraud using stolen or fabricated credit card, debit card, or bank account numbers, or other deceptive or malicious practices, potentially can steal significant amounts of money from businesses like ours or from our customers or third parties. Our risk management policies, procedures, techniques, and processes may not be sufficient to identify all of the risks to which we are exposed, to enable us to prevent or mitigate the risks we have identified, or to identify additional risks to which we may become subject in the future. Our current business, changes due to COVID-19 and the related economic impact, and anticipated domestic and international growth will continue to place significant demands on our risk management and compliance efforts, and we will need to continue developing and improving our existing risk management infrastructure, techniques, and processes. In addition, when we introduce new services, expand existing services, including online payment acceptance, focus on new business areas, including consumer financing and loans, or begin to operate in markets where we have a limited history of fraud loss, we may be less able to forecast and carry appropriate reserves on our books for those losses. Furthermore, while we maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of liabilities, we may self-insure against certain business risks and expenses where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or unavailable. We are currently, and will continue to be, exposed to risks associated with chargebacks and refunds in connection with payment card fraud or relating to the goods or services provided by our sellers. In the event that a billing dispute between a cardholder and a seller is not resolved in favor of the seller, including in situations where the seller engaged in fraud, the transaction is typically charged back to the seller and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. The risk of chargebacks is typically greater with our sellers that promise future delivery of goods and services. Moreover, chargebacks typically increase during economic downturns due to sellers becoming insolvent or bankrupt or otherwise unable to fulfill their commitments for goods or services. Consequently, we have seen an increase in chargebacks, and chargebacks may rise further as a result of the economic downturn caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. If we are unable to collect chargebacks or refunds from the sellers account, or if the seller refuses to or is unable to reimburse us for chargebacks or refunds due to closure, bankruptcy, or other reasons, we, as the merchant of record, may bear the loss for the amounts paid to the cardholder. We collect and hold reserves for a limited number of sellers whose businesses are deemed higher risk in order to help cover potential losses from chargebacks and refunds, but this practice is limited and there can be no assurances that we will be successful in mitigating such losses. Our financial results would be adversely affected to the extent sellers do not fully reimburse us for the related chargebacks and refunds. Moreover, since October 2015, businesses that cannot process EMV chip cards are held financially responsible for certain fraudulent transactions conducted using chip-enabled cards. This has shifted an increased amount of the risk for certain fraudulent transactions from the issuing banks to these sellers, which has resulted in our having to seek an increased level of reimbursement for chargebacks from our sellers that do not deploy EMV-compliant card readers. Not all of the readers we offer to merchants are EMV-compliant. If we are unable to maintain our losses from chargebacks at acceptable levels, the payment card networks could fine us, increase our 29 transaction-based fees, or terminate our ability to process payment cards. Any increase in our transaction-based fees could damage our business, and if we were unable to accept payment cards, our business would be materially and adversely affected. If any of our risk management policies and processes, including self-insurance or holding seller reserves, are ineffective, we may suffer large financial losses, we may be subject to civil and criminal liability, and our business may be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on payment card networks and acquiring processors, and any changes to their rules or practices could harm our business. Our business depends on our ability to accept credit and debit cards, and this ability is provided by the payment card networks, including Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover. In a majority of these cases, we do not directly access the payment card networks that enable our acceptance of payment cards. As a result, we must rely on banks and acquiring processors to process transactions on our behalf. Our acquiring processor agreements have terms ranging from two to six years. Our three largest such agreements expire between the third quarter of 2022 and the first quarter of 2023. These banks and acquiring processors may fail or refuse to process transactions adequately, may breach their agreements with us, or may refuse to renegotiate or renew these agreements on terms that are favorable or commercially reasonable. They might also take actions that degrade the functionality of our services, impose additional costs or requirements on us, or give preferential treatment to competitive services, including their own services. If we are unsuccessful in establishing, renegotiating, or maintaining mutually beneficial relationships with these payment card networks, banks, and acquiring processors, our business may be harmed. The payment card networks and our acquiring processors require us to comply with payment card network operating rules, including special operating rules that apply to us as a payment facilitator providing payment processing services to merchants. The payment card networks set these network rules and have discretion to interpret the rules and change them at any time. Changes to these network rules or how they are interpreted could have a significant impact on our business and financial results. For example, changes in the payment card network rules regarding chargebacks may affect our ability to dispute chargebacks and the amount of losses we incur from chargebacks. Any changes to or interpretations of the network rules that are inconsistent with the way we or our acquiring processors currently operate may require us to make changes to our business that could be costly or difficult to implement. If we fail to make such changes or otherwise resolve the issue with the payment card networks, the networks could fine us or prohibit us from processing payment cards. In addition, violations of the network rules or any failure to maintain good relationships with the payment card networks could impact our ability to receive incentives from them, could increase our costs, or could otherwise harm our business. If we were unable to accept payment cards or were limited in our ability to do so, our business would be materially and adversely affected. We are required to pay interchange and assessment fees, processing fees, and bank settlement fees to third-party payment processors and financial institutions. From time to time, payment card networks have increased, and may increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction processed using their networks. In some cases, we have negotiated favorable pricing with acquiring processors and networks that are contingent on certain business commitments and other conditions. If we fail to meet such conditions, the fees we are charged will rise. Moreover, our acquiring processors and payment card networks may refuse to renew our agreements with them on terms that are favorable, commercially reasonable, or at all. Interchange fees or assessments are also subject to change from time to time due to government regulation. Because we generally charge our sellers a standard rate for our managed payments services, rather than passing through interchange fees and assessments to our sellers directly, any increase or decrease in interchange fees or assessments or in the fees we pay to our acquiring processors could make our pricing less competitive, lead us to change our pricing model, or adversely affect our margins, all of which could materially harm our business and financial results. Likewise, we have negotiated favorable pricing for the processing fees we pay to the payment card networks for peer-to-peer transactions on our Cash App. As such, an increase in interchange fees or assessments could raise our costs for such transactions, which could materially harm our business and financial results. We could be, and in the past have been, subject to penalties from payment card networks if we fail to detect that sellers are engaging in activities that are illegal, contrary to the payment card network operating rules, or considered high risk. We must either prevent high-risk sellers from using our products and services or register such sellers with the payment card networks and conduct additional monitoring with respect to such sellers. Any such penalties could become material and could result in termination of our ability to accept payment cards or could require changes in our process for registering new sellers. This could materially and adversely affect our business. 30 We rely on third parties and their systems for a variety of services, including the processing of transaction data and settlement of funds to us and our sellers, and these third parties failure to perform these services adequately could materially and adversely affect our business. To provide our products and services, we rely on third parties that we do not control, such as the payment card networks, our acquiring and issuing processors, the payment card issuers, a carrying broker, various financial institution partners, systems like the Federal Reserve Automated Clearing House, and other partners. We rely on these third parties for a variety of services, including the transmission of transaction data, processing of chargebacks and refunds, settlement of funds to our sellers, certain brokerage services, and the provision of information and other elements of our services. For example, we currently rely on three acquiring processors for each of the United States, Canada, and Japan and two for each of Australia and the United Kingdom. While we believe there are other acquiring processors that could meet our needs, adding or transitioning to new providers may significantly disrupt our business and increase our costs. In the event these third parties fail to provide these services adequately, including as a result of financial difficulty or insolvency, errors in their systems, outages or events beyond their control, or refuse to provide these services on terms acceptable to us or at all, and we are not able to find suitable alternatives, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We have in the past experienced outages with third parties we have worked with, which has affected the ability to process payments for cards issued under our own brands. We depend on key management, as well as our experienced and capable employees, and any failure to attract, motivate, and retain our employees could harm our ability to maintain and grow our business. Our future success is significantly dependent upon the continued service of our executives and other key employees. If we lose the services of any member of management or any key personnel, we may not be able to locate a suitable or qualified replacement, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and train a replacement, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. Jack Dorsey, our co-founder, President, and Chief Executive Officer, also serves as Chief Executive Officer of Twitter, Inc. This may at times adversely affect his ability to devote time, attention, and effort to Square. To maintain and grow our business, we will need to identify, attract, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled employees. This requires significant time, expense, and attention. In addition, from time to time, there may be changes in our management team that may be disruptive to our business. If our management team, including any new hires that we make, fails to work together effectively and to execute our plans and strategies on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area where our headquarters are located. We may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees, and we may never realize returns on these investments. Additionally, potential changes in U.S. immigration policy may make it difficult to renew or obtain visas for any highly skilled personnel that we have hired or are actively recruiting. Furthermore, our international expansion and our business in general may be materially adversely affected if legislative or administrative changes to immigration or visa laws and regulations impair our hiring processes or projects involving personnel who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed. If we are not able to add and retain employees effectively, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely affected, and our business and growth prospects will be harmed. If we do not continue to improve our operational, financial, and other internal controls and systems to manage growth effectively, our business could be harmed. Our current business and anticipated growth, as well as our entry into new lines of business, will continue to place significant demands on our management and other resources. In order to manage our growth effectively, we must continue to strengthen our existing infrastructure and operational procedures, enhance our internal controls and reporting systems, and ensure we timely and accurately address issues as they arise. In particular, our continued growth will increase the challenges involved in: improving existing and developing new internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our operational, financial, communications, and other internal systems and procedures; installing enhanced management information and control systems; and preserving our core values, strategies, and goals and effectively communicating these to our employees worldwide. 31 If we are not successful in developing and implementing the right processes and tools to manage our enterprise, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired. These efforts may require substantial financial expenditures, commitments of resources, developments of our processes, and other investments and innovations. As we grow, we must balance the need for additional controls and systems with the ability to efficiently develop and launch new features for our products and services. However, it is likely that as we grow, we will not be able to launch new features, or respond to customer or market demands as quickly as a smaller, more efficient organization. If we do not successfully manage our growth, our business will suffer. Our services must integrate with a variety of operating systems, and the hardware that enables merchants to accept payment cards must interoperate with third-party mobile devices utilizing those operating systems. If we are unable to ensure that our services or hardware interoperate with such operating systems and devices, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on the ability of our products and services to integrate with a variety of operating systems, as well as web browsers, that we do not control. Any changes in these systems that degrade the functionality of our products and services, impose additional costs or requirements on us, or give preferential treatment to competitive services, including their own services, could materially and adversely affect usage of our products and services. In addition, we rely on app marketplaces, such as the Apple App Store and Google Play, to drive downloads of our mobile apps. Apple, Google, or other operators of app marketplaces regularly make changes to their marketplaces, and those changes may make access to our products and services more difficult. In the event that it is difficult for our customers to access and use our products and services, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, Apple, Google, or other operators of app marketplaces regularly provide software updates, and such software updates may not operate effectively with our products and services, which may reduce the demand for our products and services, result in dissatisfaction by our customers, and may materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, our hardware interoperates with wired and wireless interfaces to mobile devices developed by third parties. For example, the current versions of our magstripe reader plug into an audio jack or a Lightning connector. The use of these connection types could change, and such changes and other potential changes in the design of future mobile devices could limit the interoperability of our hardware and software with such devices and require modifications to our hardware or software. If we are unable to ensure that our hardware and software continue to interoperate effectively with such devices, if doing so is costly, or if existing merchants decide not to utilize additional parts necessary for interoperability, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Many of our key components are procured from a single or limited number of suppliers. Thus, we are at risk of shortage, price increases, tariffs, changes, delay, or discontinuation of key components, which could disrupt and materially and adversely affect our business. Many of the key components used to manufacture our products, such as the custom parts of our magstripe reader come from limited or single sources of supply. In addition, in some cases, we rely only on one manufacturer to fabricate, test, and assemble our products. For example, a single manufacturer assembles our magstripe reader and our contactless and chip reader, as well as manufactures those products plastic parts with custom tools that we own but that they maintain on their premises. The term of the agreement with that manufacturer automatically renews for consecutive one-year periods unless either party provides notice of non-renewal. In general, our contract manufacturers fabricate or procure components on our behalf, subject to certain approved procedures or supplier lists, and we do not have firm commitments from all of these manufacturers to provide all components, or to provide them in quantities and on timelines that we may require. For example, pursuant to a development and supply agreement, a component supplier provides design, development, customization, and related services for components of the magnetic stripe-reading element in some of our products. The term of the agreement extends through March 2021 and then renews for consecutive one-year periods unless either party provides notice of non-renewal. Similarly, a component provider develops certain application-specific integrated circuits for our products pursuant to our designs and specifications. The term of our agreement with this provider renews for successive two-year terms unless either party provides notice of non-renewal. Due to our reliance on the components or products produced by suppliers such as these, we are subject to the risk of shortages and long lead times or other disruptions in the supply of certain components or products. Our ongoing efforts to identify alternative manufacturers for the assembly of our products and for many of the single-sourced components used in our products may not be successful. In the case of off-the-shelf components, we are subject to the risk that our suppliers may 32 discontinue or modify them, or that the components may cease to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, component shortages or delays or other problems in product assembly, and the availability of these components or products may be difficult to predict. For example, our manufacturers may experience temporary or permanent disruptions in their manufacturing operations due to equipment breakdowns, labor strikes or shortages, natural disasters, the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness, such as COVID-19, component or material shortages, cost increases, acquisitions, insolvency, bankruptcy, business shutdowns, trade restrictions, changes in legal or regulatory requirements, or other similar problems. In particular, the current COVID-19 pandemic has caused disruptions in our supply chain. To the extent COVID-19 pandemic continues and results in an extended period of travel, commercial, and other similar restrictions, disruptions in our supply chain may continue and cause shortages of our hardware products, which would negatively affect our ability to serve and acquire sellers and could materially and adversely impact our financial results. Moreover, our hardware product development has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, as travel to our manufacturers that develop prototypes has been restricted globally. Additionally, various sources of supply-chain risk, including strikes or shutdowns at delivery ports or loss of or damage to our products while they are in transit or storage, intellectual property theft, losses due to tampering, third-party vendor issues with quality or sourcing control, failure by our suppliers to comply with applicable laws and regulation, potential tariffs or other trade restrictions, or other similar problems could limit or delay the supply of our products or harm our reputation. In the event of a shortage or supply interruption from suppliers of these components, we may not be able to develop alternate sources quickly, cost-effectively, or at all. Any interruption or delay in manufacturing, component supply, any increases in component costs, or the inability to obtain these parts or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would harm our ability to provide our products to sellers on a timely basis. This could harm our relationships with our sellers, prevent us from acquiring new sellers, and materially and adversely affect our business. In September of 2018, the United States imposed tariffs on certain imports from China, including on some of our hardware devices manufactured in China. The tariffs on these products were initially set at 10%, but were increased to 25% in May 2019. On September 1, 2019, the United States imposed new tariffs at 15% on additional imports from China, including on our remaining hardware products manufactured there, but rolled back these new tariffs to 7.5% effective February 14, 2020. The tariffs negatively affect the gross margin on the impacted products, which only partially has been offset by adjustments to the prices of some of the affected products. Any future tariffs and actions related to items imported from China or elsewhere could also negatively impact our gross margin on the impacted products, and increases in our pricing as a result of tariffs would reduce the competitiveness of our products if our competitors do not make similar pricing adjustments. The impact of any increased or new tariffs or other trade restrictions could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of future operations. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products and to adequately manage our product inventory. We invest broadly in our business, and such investments are driven by our expectations of the future success of a product. For example, our products such as the Square Reader often require investments with long lead times. An inability to correctly forecast the success of a particular product could harm our business. We must forecast inventory needs and expenses and place orders sufficiently in advance with our third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers based on our estimates of future demand for particular products. Our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products could be affected by many factors, including an increase or decrease in demand for our products or for our competitors products, unanticipated changes in general market or economic conditions, and business closures and other actions taken to combat COVID-19. If we underestimate demand for a particular product, our contract manufacturers and suppliers may not be able to deliver sufficient quantities of that product to meet our requirements, and we may experience a shortage of that product available for sale or distribution. If we overestimate demand for a particular product, we may experience excess inventory levels for that product and the excess inventory may become obsolete or out-of-date. Inventory levels in excess of demand may result in inventory write-downs or write-offs and the sale of excess inventory at further discounted prices, which could negatively impact our gross profit and our business. 33 Economic, Financial, and Tax Risks A deterioration of general macroeconomic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our performance is subject to economic conditions and their impact on levels of spending by businesses and individuals. Most of the sellers that use our services are small businesses, many of which are in the early stages of their development, and these businesses are often disproportionately adversely affected by economic downturns and may fail at a higher rate than larger or more established businesses. In fact, small businesses have been, and continue to be, disproportionately affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and the related measures taken by governments and private industry to protect the public health such as stay-at-home orders. Many businesses are experiencing reduced sales and are processing fewer payments with us, which has had a negative impact on our results of operations. If they cease to operate, they will likely stop using our products and services altogether. Small businesses frequently have limited budgets and limited access to capital, and they may choose to allocate their spending to items other than our financial or marketing services, especially in times of economic uncertainty or in recessions. In addition, if more of our sellers cease to operate, this may have an adverse impact not only on the growth of our payments services but also on our transaction and advance loss rates, and the success of our other services. For example, if sellers processing payments with us receive chargebacks after they cease to operate, we may incur additional losses. Additionally, the growth in the number of sellers qualifying for participation in the Square Capital program may slow, or business loans may be paid more slowly, or not at all. In addition, as we expand our business to offer consumer financing products, those customers may also be disproportionately adversely affected by economic downturns. Further, our suppliers, distributors, and other third party partners may suffer their own financial and economic challenges. Such suppliers and third parties may demand pricing accommodations, delay payment, or become insolvent, which could harm our ability to meet end customer demands or collect revenue or otherwise could harm our business. Furthermore, our investment portfolio, which includes U.S. government and corporate securities, is subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by certain events that affect the global financial markets. If global credit and equity markets decline for extended periods, or if there is a downgrade of the securities within our portfolio, our investment portfolio may be adversely affected and we could determine that our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. Thus, if general macroeconomic conditions deteriorate, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. The COVID-19 pandemic has created significant uncertainty in the global economy. The COVID-19 pandemic and health measures taken by governments and private industry in response to the pandemic, including stay-at-home orders, restrictions on business operations, and travel restrictions, have had significant negative effects on the economy. Continued uncertainty about the pandemic, associated economic consequences, and potential relief measures may have a long-term adverse effect on the economy, our sellers, customers, suppliers, and our business. For example, we are currently subletting some of our office space. An economic downturn or our new work from home practices may cause us to need less office space than we are contractually committed to leasing and prevent us from finding subtenants for such unused office space, causing us to pay for unused office space. We are also monitoring developments related to the decision by the United Kingdom to leave the European Union . Brexit could have significant implications for our business and could lead to economic and legal uncertainty and increasingly divergent laws, regulations, and licensing requirements. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. We may have exposure to greater-than-anticipated tax liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business. We are subject to income taxes and non-income taxes in the United States and other countries in which we transact or conduct business, and such laws and rates vary by jurisdiction. We are subject to review and audit by U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Such tax authorities may disagree with tax positions we take, and if any such tax authority were to successfully challenge any such position, our financial results and operations could be materially and adversely affected. For example, on June 15, 2020, the Texas Comptrollers Office (the Comptroller) finalized its audit and informed us that it will be issuing an assessment for $38 million, including interest and penalties, following its sales and use tax audit for the period starting January 1, 2015 through April 30, 2018. The Comptroller alleges that services that we have deemed nontaxable are in fact subject to tax. We strongly disagree with the Comptrollers classification of these services as taxable 34 and believe our position is supported by state case law and the Comptrollers own policies. We plan to vigorously defend our position and pursue all available remedies, including possibly through litigation. Should we not prevail, we could be obligated to pay the additional taxes together with associated penalties and interest for the audited periods. Additional taxes, interest, and penalties for subsequent and future periods could be material as well. In addition, we currently are, and expect to continue to be, subject to numerous federal, state, and foreign tax audits relating to income, transfer pricing, sales & use, VAT, and other tax liabilities. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonably sufficient to cover such eventualities, any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations if the reserves prove to be insufficient. Our tax liability could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, rates, regulations, and administrative practices. Our income tax obligations are based on our corporate operating structure, including the manner in which we develop, value, and use our intellectual property and the scope of our international operations. The tax authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements. For example, various levels of government and international organizations, such as the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the European Union (EU), have increasingly focused on future tax reform and any result from this development may create changes to long-standing tax principles, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate. Additionally, tax authorities at the international, federal, state, and local levels are currently reviewing the appropriate tax treatment of companies engaged in internet commerce and financial technology and attempting to broaden the classification and definitions of activities subject to taxation. For example, various states may attempt to broaden the definition of internet hosting, data processing, telecommunications, and other taxable services to capture additional types of activities. These developing changes could affect our financial position and results of operations. In particular, due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that tax authorities at the international, federal, state, and local levels may attempt to regulate our transactions or levy new or revised sales & use taxes, VAT, digital services taxes, income taxes, or other taxes relating to our activities in the internet commerce and financial technology space. New or revised taxes, in particular, sales & use taxes, VAT, and similar taxes, including digital service taxes, would likely increase the cost of doing business. New taxes could also create significant increases in internal costs necessary to capture data and collect and remit taxes. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, an increasing number of states, and certain foreign jurisdictions, have considered or adopted laws or administrative practices that attempt to impose obligations for online marketplaces, payment service providers, and other intermediaries. These obligations may deem parties, such as us, to be the legal agent of merchants and therefore may require us to collect and remit taxes on the merchants behalf and take on additional reporting and record-keeping obligations. Any failure by us to prepare for and to comply with these and similar reporting and record-keeping obligations could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions, adversely impact our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions, and harm our business. The determination of our worldwide provision for income and other tax liabilities is highly complex and requires significant judgment by management, and there are many transactions during the ordinary course of business where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. We have in the past recorded, and may in the future record, significant valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets, which may have a material impact on our results of operations and cause fluctuations in such results. As of December 31, 2020, we had a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets in the United States and in certain other countries. Our net deferred tax assets relate predominantly to the United States federal and state tax jurisdictions. The need for a valuation allowance requires an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable; such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. In making such assessment, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified. We continue to monitor the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets in the future. Future adjustments in our valuation allowance may be required. The recording of any future increases in our valuation allowance could have a material impact on our reported results, and both the recording and release of the valuation allowance could cause fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results of operations. 35 We may not be able to secure financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs, and our existing credit facility contains, and any future debt financing may contain, covenants that impact the operation of our business and pursuit of business opportunities. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through debt and equity financings, bank credit facilities, finance lease arrangements, and cash from operations. While we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable debt securities, and availability under our line of credit are sufficient to meet our working capital needs and planned capital expenditures, and service our debt, there is no guarantee that this will continue to be true in the future. In the future, we may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, refinancing needs, business and financial challenges, regulatory surety bond requirements, acquisitions, or unforeseen circumstances and may decide to engage in equity, equity-linked, or debt financings or enter into additional credit facilities for other reasons. We may not be able to secure any such additional financing or refinancing on favorable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Our credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants, including customary limitations on the incurrence of certain indebtedness and liens, restrictions on certain inter-company transactions, and limitations on dividends and stock repurchases. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could also involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to operate our business, obtain additional capital, and pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and breaches of these covenants could result in a default under our existing credit facility and any future financing agreements into which we may enter. If not waived, these defaults could cause indebtedness outstanding under our credit facility, our other outstanding indebtedness, including our 2022 Notes, 2023 Notes, 2025 Notes, 2026 Notes, and 2027 Notes (collectively, the Notes) and any future financing agreements that we may enter into to become immediately due and payable. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or other securities convertible into equity, including convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any such securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of holders of our Class A common stock. Servicing our Notes may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash or the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the Notes in cash, repay the Notes at maturity, or repurchase the Notes as required following a fundamental change. As of December 31, 2020, we had $8.5 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of 2022 Notes, $862.5 million aggregate principal amount of 2023 Notes, $1.0 billion outstanding aggregate principal amount of 2025 Notes, $575.0 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of 2026 Notes, and $575.0 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of 2027 Notes. Prior to December 1, 2021, in the case of the 2022 Notes, February 15, 2023, in the case of the 2023 Notes, December 1, 2024, in the case of the 2025 Notes, February 1, 2026, in the case of the 2026 Notes, and August 1, 2027, in the case of the 2027 Notes, the applicable Notes are convertible at the option of the holders only under certain conditions or upon occurrence of certain events. Because the last reported sale price of our Class A common stock exceeded 130% of the conversion price for the 2022 Notes, the 2023 Notes, and the 2025 Notes for the relevant period in the calendar quarter ending December 31, 2020, the 2022 Notes, 2023 Notes, and 2025 Notes are convertible at the option of the holders thereof during the calendar quarter ending March 31, 2021. Whether the Notes of any series will be convertible following such calendar quarter will depend on the satisfaction of this condition or another conversion condition in the future. If holders of the Notes of a series elect to convert such Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our Class A common stock to settle such conversion, we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Notes being converted. Effective October 2018, we revised our prior stated policy of settling conversions of the 2022 Notes and 2023 Notes through combination settlement with a specified dollar amount of $1,000 per $1,000 principal amount of Notes. We currently expect to settle future conversions of the 2022 Notes and 2023 Notes solely in shares of our Class A common stock, which has the effect of including the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes of such series in our diluted earnings per share to the extent such shares are not anti-dilutive. We will reevaluate this policy from time to time as conversion notices are received from holders of the Notes. 36 In addition, holders of each series of Notes also have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes of such series upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the applicable indenture governing the Notes) at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. If the Notes of any series have not previously been converted or repurchased, we will be required to repay such Notes in cash at maturity. Our ability to make required cash payments in connection with conversions of the Notes, repurchase the Notes in the event of a fundamental change, or to repay or refinance the Notes at maturity will depend on market conditions and our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. We also may not use the cash proceeds we raised through the issuance of the Notes in an optimally productive and profitable manner. Since inception, our business has generated net losses in most quarters, and we may continue to incur significant losses. As a result, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to repurchase or repay the Notes or pay cash with respect to Notes being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase or to pay cash upon conversion or at maturity of the Notes may be limited by law or regulatory authority. Our failure to repurchase Notes following a fundamental change or to pay cash upon conversion (unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our Class A common stock to settle such conversion) or at maturity of the Notes as required by the applicable indenture would constitute a default under such indenture. A default under the applicable indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under our credit facility, our other outstanding indebtedness, or agreements governing our future indebtedness and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If the payment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or to pay cash upon conversion or at maturity of the Notes. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. In connection with the issuance of each series of our Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with certain financial institutions, which we refer to as the "option counterparties." The option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that one or more of such option counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. If any option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the convertible note hedge transaction. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in our Class A common stock market price and in the volatility of the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, upon a default by any option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our Class A common stock. We can provide no assurance as to the financial stability or viability of any option counterparty. Our investments in bitcoin may be subject to volatile market prices, impairment, and other risks of loss. We purchased $50 million in bitcoin in October 2020 and another $170 million in bitcoin in February 2021, and we may make additional bitcoin purchases in the future. The price of bitcoin has been highly volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile in the future, including as a result of various associated risks and uncertainties. For example, the prevalence of bitcoin is a relatively recent trend, and the long-term adoption of bitcoin by investors, consumers, and businesses remains uncertain. Moreover, its lack of a physical form, its reliance on technology for its creation, existence, and transactional validation, and its decentralization may subject its integrity to the threat of malicious attacks and technological obsolescence. If the market value of the bitcoin we hold decreases relative to the purchase prices, our financial condition may be adversely impacted. Moreover, bitcoin currently is considered an indefinite-lived intangible asset under applicable accounting rules, meaning that any decrease in its market value below our book value for such asset at any time subsequent to its acquisition will require us to recognize impairment charges, whereas we may make no upward revisions for any market price increases until a sale, which may adversely affect our operating results in any period in which such impairment occurs. 37 Legal, Regulatory, and Compliance Risks Our business is subject to extensive regulation and oversight in a variety of areas, all of which are subject to change and uncertain interpretation. We are subject to a wide variety of local, state, federal, and international laws, regulations, licensing schemes, and industry standards in the United States and in other countries in which we operate. These laws, regulations, and standards govern numerous areas that are important to our business, and include, or may in the future include, those relating to banking, lending, deposit-taking, cross-border and domestic money transmission, foreign exchange, payments services (such as payment processing and settlement services), cryptocurrency, trading in shares and fractional shares, consumer protection, anti-money laundering, escheatment, international sanctions regimes, data privacy and security, and compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, a set of requirements designed to ensure that all companies that process, store, or transmit payment card information maintain a secure environment to protect cardholder data. These laws, rules, regulations, and standards are enforced by multiple authorities and governing bodies in the United States, including federal agencies, such as the FDIC and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, self-regulatory organizations, and numerous state and local agencies, such as the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. Outside of the United States, we are subject to additional regulators. As we expand into new jurisdictions, or expand our product offerings in existing jurisdictions, the number of foreign regulations and regulators governing our business will expand as well. In addition, as our business and products continue to develop and expand, we may become subject to additional rules, regulations, and industry standards. We may not always be able to accurately predict the scope or applicability of certain regulations to our business, particularly as we expand into new areas of operations, which could have a significant negative effect on our existing business and our ability to pursue future plans. Laws, regulations, and standards are subject to changes and evolving interpretations and application, including by means of legislative changes and/or executive orders, and it can be difficult to predict how they may be applied to our business and the way we conduct our operations, particularly as we introduce new products and services and expand into new jurisdictions. For example, Cash App includes a feature that permits our customers to buy and sell bitcoin. Bitcoin is not considered legal tender or backed by any government, and it has experienced price volatility, technological glitches, security compromises, and various law enforcement and regulatory interventions. The regulation of cryptocurrency and crypto platforms is still an evolving area, and it is possible that we could become subject to additional regulations. If we fail to comply with regulations or prohibitions applicable to us, we could face regulatory or other enforcement actions and potential fines and other consequences. Further, we might not be able to continue operating the feature, at least in current form, which could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decrease. We are subject to inquiries and investigations from regulators on an ongoing basis. Although we have a compliance program focused on the laws, rules, and regulations applicable to our business, we may still be subject to fines or other penalties in one or more jurisdictions levied by regulators, including state Attorneys General and private plaintiffs who may be acting as private attorneys general pursuant to various applicable laws, as well as those levied by foreign regulators. In addition to fines, penalties for failing to comply with applicable rules and regulations could include significant criminal and civil lawsuits, forfeiture of significant assets, increased licensure requirements, or other enforcement actions. We could also be required to make changes to our business practices or compliance programs as a result of regulatory scrutiny. In addition, any perceived or actual breach of compliance by us with respect to applicable laws, rules, and regulations could have a significant impact on our reputation as a trusted brand and could cause us to lose existing customers, prevent us from obtaining new customers, require us to expend significant funds to remedy problems caused by breaches and to avert further breaches, and expose us to legal risk and potential liability. Further, from time to time, we may leverage third parties to help conduct our businesses in the U.S. or abroad. We and our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities and may be held liable for any corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party business partners and intermediaries, our employees, partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. While we have policies and procedures to address compliance with such laws, we cannot assure you that our employees and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. 38 Our business is subject to complex and evolving regulations and oversight related to privacy and data protection. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the collection, use, retention, privacy, security, and transfer of information, including personally identifiable information of our employees and customers. As with the other laws and regulations noted above, these laws and regulations may change or be interpreted and applied differently over time and from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and it is possible they will be interpreted and applied in ways that will materially and adversely affect our business. For example, the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) imposes more stringent data privacy and data protection requirements than prior EU data protection law and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance of up to the greater of 4% of worldwide annual revenue or 20 million. To address data transfers from the EU to other jurisdictions, we utilize model contracts approved by the EU Commission. On July 16, 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) issued a decision that may impose additional obligations on companies when relying on those model contracts, in addition to invalidating another method that some companies relied on for transferring personal data from the European Economic Area (EEA) to the United States, the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield. This CJEU decision may result in different EEA data protection regulators applying differing standards for the transfer of personal data from the EEA to the United States, and even require ad hoc verification of measures taken with respect to data flows. As a result of this CJEU decision, we may be required to take additional steps to legitimize impacted personal data transfers. This could result in increased costs of compliance and limitations on our customers and us. More generally, we may find it necessary or desirable to modify our data handling practices, and this CJEU decision or other legal challenges relating to cross-border data transfer may serve as a basis for our personal data handling practices, or those of our customers and vendors, to be challenged and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. In the United Kingdom, although a Data Protection Act substantially implements the GDPR, uncertainty remains regarding how data transfers to and from the U.K. will be regulated. The U.K.s exit from the EU has created uncertainty with regard to the regulation of data protection in the U.K. and data transfers between the U.K., the EU, and other jurisdictions and could require us to make additional changes to the way we conduct our business and transmit data between the U.S., the U.K., the EU, and the rest of the world. In addition, some countries are considering or have enacted legislation requiring local storage and processing of data that could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services. Likewise, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA) became effective on January 1, 2020 and will be modified by the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), which was passed in November 2020 and becomes fully effective on January 1, 2023. The CCPA and CPRA impose stringent data privacy and data protection requirements for the data of California residents, and provides for penalties for noncompliance of up to $7,500 per violation. It remains unclear how various provisions of the CCPA and CPRA will be interpreted and enforced. More generally, data privacy and security continues to be a rapidly evolving area, and further legislative activity has arisen and will likely continue to arise in the U.S., the EU, and other jurisdictions. For example, various states in the U.S. have proposed or enacted laws regarding privacy and data protection that contain obligations similar to the CCPA, and the federal government is contemplating federal privacy legislation. In addition, laws and regulations directed at privacy and data security, and those that have been applied in those areas, may be subject to evolving interpretations or applications. The effects of recently proposed or enacted legislation, including CCPA and CPRA, potentially are far-reaching and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with evolving privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, shifting consumer expectations, or contractual obligations. In particular, with laws and regulations such as the GDPR in the EU and the CCPA and CPRA in the U.S. imposing new and relatively burdensome obligations, and with substantial uncertainty over the interpretation and application of these and other laws and regulations, we may face challenges in addressing their requirements and making necessary changes to our policies and practices, and we may incur significant costs and expenses in an effort to do so. Any failure, real or perceived, by us to comply with our privacy, data protection, or information security policies, changing consumer expectations, or with any evolving regulatory requirements, industry standards, or contractual obligations could cause our customers to reduce their use of our products and services, disrupt our supply chain or third party vendor or developer partnerships, and materially and adversely affect our business. As a licensed money transmitter, we are subject to important obligations and restrictions. We have obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or as other financial services institutions) in the United States and in the states where this is required, as well as in some non-U.S. jurisdictions, including the European Union, the United Kingdom, and Australia. As a licensed money transmitter, we are subject to obligations and restrictions with respect to the investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements, and inspection by state regulatory 39 agencies concerning those aspects of our business considered money transmission. Evaluation of our compliance efforts, as well as the questions of whether and to what extent our products and services are considered money transmission, are matters of regulatory interpretation and could change over time. In the past, we have been subject to fines and other penalties by regulatory authorities due to their interpretations and applications to our business of their respective state money transmission laws. In the future, as a result of the regulations applicable to our business, we could be subject to investigations and resulting liability, including governmental fines, restrictions on our business, or other sanctions, and we could be forced to cease conducting business in certain jurisdictions, be forced to otherwise change our business practices in certain jurisdictions, or be required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such licenses, and, even if we were able to do so, there could be substantial costs and potential product changes involved in maintaining such licenses, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our subsidiary Square Financial Services is a Utah state-chartered industrial bank, which requires that we serve as a source of financial strength to it and subjects us to potential regulatory sanctions. On March 17, 2020, the Board of Directors of the FDIC conditionally approved an application for federal deposit insurance for Square Financial Services, an industrial bank that we are in the process of establishing and plan to open for business this year. The Utah Department of Financial Institutions has also granted its conditional approval. However, there can be no assurances that Square Financial Services will become operational. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act requires that we serve as a source of financial strength to Square Financial Services. This means that we are required by law to provide financial assistance to Square Financial Services in the event that it experiences financial distress. In this regard, the FDICs approval requires that Square Financial Services has initial paid in capital of not less than approximately $56 million. Thereafter, the capital levels of Square Financial Services during the first three years of operation may not be less than the levels provided in Square Financial Services business plan filed with the FDIC. Thereafter, the regulatory capital ratios must be annually approved by the FDIC, and in no event may Square Financial Services leverage ratio be less than twenty percent, as calculated in accordance with FDIC regulations. If the FDIC were to increase Square Financial Services capital requirements, it could have adverse effects on us and Square Financial Services. The FDICs approval is also contingent on us entering into a Capital and Liquidity Maintenance Agreement as well as a Parent Company Agreement. The Capital and Liquidity Maintenance Agreement would require, among other things, that we maintain the leverage ratio of Square Financial Services at a minimum of 20 percent at all times; maintain a third-party line of credit for the benefit of Square Financial Services acceptable to the FDIC; purchase any loan from Square Financial Services at the greater of the cost basis or fair market value, if deemed necessary by the FDIC or Square Financial Services; and establish and maintain a reserve deposit at an unaffiliated third-party bank that Square Financial Services could draw upon in the event that we fail to provide sufficient funds to maintain Square Financial Services capital ratios at the required levels. The Parent Company Agreement would require, among other things, that we consent to the FDICs examination of us and our subsidiaries; limit our representation on Square Financial Services board of directors to no more than 25 percent; submit a contingency plan to the FDIC that describes likely scenarios of significant financial or operational stress and, if we were unable to serve as a source of financial strength, options for the orderly wind down or sale of Square Financial Services; and engage a third party to review and provide periodic reports concerning the effectiveness of our complaint response system. Jack Dorsey, who is considered our controlling shareholder in this context, also agreed to cause us to perform under these agreements. Should we fail to comply with these obligations, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. In addition, any failure by Square Financial Services to comply with applicable laws, rules, and regulations could also subject us and Square Financial Services to regulatory sanctions. These sanctions could adversely impact our reputation and our business, require us to expend significant funds for remediation, and expose us to litigation and other potential liability. Our subsidiary Cash App Investing is a broker-dealer registered with the SEC and a member of FINRA, and therefore is subject to extensive regulation and scrutiny. Our subsidiary Cash App Investing facilitates transactions in shares and fractionalized shares of publicly-traded stock and exchange-traded funds by users of our Cash App through a third-party clearing and carrying broker, DriveWealth LLC (DriveWealth). Cash App Investing is registered with the SEC as a broker-dealer under the Exchange Act and is a member of FINRA. Therefore Cash App Investing is subject to regulation, examination, and supervision by the SEC and FINRA. The regulations applicable to broker-dealers cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales practices, use and safekeeping of clients funds and securities, capital adequacy, record-keeping, and the conduct and qualification of officers, employees, and independent contractors. As part of the regulatory process, broker-dealers are subject to periodic examinations by their regulators, the purpose of which is to determine compliance with securities laws and regulations, and from time to time may be subject to additional routine and for-cause examinations. It is not uncommon for regulators to 40 assert, upon completion of an examination, that the broker-dealer being examined has violated certain of these rules and regulations. Depending on the nature and extent of the violations, the broker-dealer may be required to pay a fine and/or be subject to other forms of disciplinary and corrective action. Additionally, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing customers or fail to gain new customers. The SEC, FINRA, and state regulators have the authority to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against broker-dealers, whether arising out of examinations or otherwise, for violations of state and federal securities laws. Administrative sanctions can include cease-and-desist orders, censure, fines, and disgorgement and may even result in the suspension or expulsion of the firm from the securities industry. Similar sanctions may be imposed upon officers, directors, representatives, and employees. Cash App Investing has adopted, and regularly reviews and updates, various policies, controls, and procedures designed for compliance with Cash App Investings regulatory obligations. However, appropriately addressing these issues is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to appropriately address them. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may also result in regulatory sanctions or litigation against us. Cash App Investing also relies on various third parties, including DriveWealth, to provide services, including managing and executing customer orders, and failure of these third parties to adequately perform these services may negatively impact customer experience, product performance, and our reputation and may also result in regulatory sanctions or litigation against us or Cash App Investing. In the event of any regulatory action or scrutiny, we or Cash App Investing could also be required to make changes to our business practices or compliance programs. In addition, any perceived or actual breach of compliance by Cash App Investing with respect to applicable laws, rules, and regulations could have a significant impact on our reputation, could cause us to lose existing customers, prevent us from obtaining new customers, require us to expend significant funds to remedy problems caused by breaches and to avert further breaches, and expose us to legal risk, including litigation against us, and potential liability. Cash App Investing is subject to net capital and other regulatory capital requirements; failure to comply with these rules could harm our business. Our subsidiary Cash App Investing is subject to the net capital requirements of the SEC and FINRA. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also mandate that a significant part of its assets be kept in relatively liquid form. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm to limitation of its activities, including suspension or revocation of its registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by FINRA, and ultimately may require its liquidation. Currently, Cash App Investing has relatively low net capital requirements, because it does not hold customer funds or securities, but instead facilitates the transmission and delivery of those funds on behalf of customers to DriveWealth or back to the applicable customer. However, a change in the net capital rules, a change in how Cash App Investing handles or holds customer assets, or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation, or amount of net capital requirements could have adverse effects. Finally, because Cash App Investing is subject to such net capital requirements, we may be required to inject additional capital into Cash App Investing from time to time and as such, we may have liability and/or our larger business may be affected by any of these outcomes. It is possible that FINRA will require changes to our business practices based on our ownership of Cash App Investing, which could impose additional costs or disrupt our business. In certain cases, FINRA has required unregistered affiliates of broker-dealers to comply with additional regulatory requirements, including, among others, handling all securities or other financial transactions through the affiliated broker-dealer or conforming all marketing and advertising materials to the requirements applicable to broker-dealers. We do not currently believe that these types of requirements apply to any aspect of our business other than the securities transactions facilitated through the Cash App. It is possible that, in the future, FINRA could require us to comply with additional regulations in the conduct of other activities (i.e., beyond the securities transactions made through the Cash App). If that were to occur, it could require significant changes to our business practices. These and other changes would impose significantly greater costs on us and disrupt existing practices in ways that could negatively affect our overarching business and profitability. 41 We are subject to risks related to litigation, including intellectual property claims, government investigations or inquiries, and regulatory matters or disputes. We may be, and have been, subject to claims, lawsuits (including class actions and individual lawsuits), government or regulatory investigations, subpoenas, inquiries or audits, and other proceedings. The number and significance of our legal disputes and inquiries have increased as we have grown larger, as our business has expanded in scope and geographic reach, and as our products and services have increased in complexity, and we expect that we will continue to face additional legal disputes as we continue to grow and expand. We also receive significant media attention, which could result in increased litigation or other legal or regulatory reviews and proceedings. Some of the laws and regulations affecting the internet, mobile commerce, payment processing, bitcoin and equity investing, business financing, and employment did not anticipate businesses like ours, and many of the laws and regulations, including those affecting us have been enacted relatively recently. As a result, there is substantial uncertainty regarding the scope and application of many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, which increases the risk that we will be subject to claims alleging violations of those laws and regulations. The scope, outcome, and impact of claims, lawsuits, government or regulatory investigations, subpoenas, inquiries or audits, and other proceedings to which we are subject cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the outcome, such investigations and legal proceedings can have a material and adverse impact on us due to their costs, diversion of our resources, and other factors. Plaintiffs may seek, and we may become subject to, preliminary or provisional rulings in the course of litigation, including preliminary injunctions requiring us to cease some or all of our operations. We may decide to settle legal disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. We may also be accused of having, or be found to have, infringed or violated third-party intellectual property rights. Furthermore, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that we may not choose to appeal or that may not be reversed upon appeal. We may have to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third partys rights, or we may have to change or cease certain practices. If we are required, or choose to enter into, royalty or licensing arrangements, such arrangements may not be available on reasonable terms or at all and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. As a result, we may also be required to develop or procure alternative non-infringing technology or discontinue use of technology, and doing so could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. In addition, the terms of any settlement or judgment in connection with any legal claims, lawsuits, or proceedings may require us to cease some or all of our operations or to pay substantial amounts to the other party and could materially and adversely affect our business. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brand. Our trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights are critical to our success. We rely on, and expect to continue to rely on, a combination of confidentiality, invention assignment, and license agreements with our employees, consultants, and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, trade dress, domain name, copyright, trade secret, and patent rights, to protect our brand and other intellectual property rights. However, various events outside of our control may pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products and services. Effective protection of intellectual property rights is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and maintenance costs, as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective. Our intellectual property rights may be infringed, misappropriated, or challenged, which could result in them being narrowed in scope or declared invalid or unenforceable. Similarly, our reliance on unpatented proprietary information and technology, such as trade secrets and confidential information, depends in part on agreements we have in place with employees and third parties that place restrictions on the use and disclosure of this intellectual property. These agreements may be insufficient or may be breached, or we may not enter into sufficient agreements with such individuals in the first instance, in either case potentially resulting in the unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and other intellectual property, including to our competitors, which could cause us to lose any competitive advantage resulting from this intellectual property. Individuals not subject to invention assignment agreements may make adverse ownership claims to our current and future intellectual property. There can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to protect against others offering products or services that are substantially similar to ours and that compete with our business. We routinely apply for patents in the U.S. and internationally to protect innovative ideas in our technology, but we may not always be successful in obtaining patent grants from these applications. We also pursue registration of copyrights, trademarks, and domain names in the United States and in certain jurisdictions outside of the United States, but doing so may not always be successful or cost-effective. In general, we may be unable or, in some instances, choose not to obtain legal 42 protection for our intellectual property, and our existing and future intellectual property rights may not provide us with competitive advantages or distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and effective intellectual property protection and mechanisms may not be available in those jurisdictions. We may need to expend additional resources to defend our intellectual property in these countries, and the inability to do so could impair our business or adversely affect our international expansion. Our intellectual property rights may be contested, circumvented, or found unenforceable or invalid, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing, diluting, or otherwise violating them. Additionally, our intellectual property rights and other confidential business information are subject to risks of compromise or unauthorized disclosure if our security measures or those of our third-party service providers are unable to prevent cyber-attacks. Significant impairments of our intellectual property rights, and limitations on our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against others, could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control within our stockholders who held our stock prior to our initial public offering, including many of our employees and directors and their affiliates; this will limit or preclude your ability to influence corporate matters. Our Class B common stock has ten votes per share, and our Class A common stock has one vote per share. Stockholders who hold shares of Class B common stock, including many of our executive officers, employees, and directors and their affiliates, held approximately 62.8% of the voting power of our combined outstanding capital stock as of December 31 2020. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates held approximately 65.1% of the voting power of our combined outstanding capital stock as of December 31, 2020. Because of the ten-to-one voting ratio between our Class B and Class A common stock, the holders of our Class B common stock collectively hold more than a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock, and therefore such holders are able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. When the shares of our Class B common stock represent less than 5% of the combined voting power of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock, the then-outstanding shares of Class B common stock will automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock. Transfers by holders of Class B common stock will generally result in those shares converting to Class A common stock, subject to limited exceptions. Such conversions of Class B common stock to Class A common stock upon transfer will have the effect, over time, of increasing the relative voting power of those holders of Class B common stock who retain their shares in the long term. If, for example, our Class B stockholders retain shares of Class B common stock constituting as little as 10% of all outstanding shares of our Class A and Class B common stock combined, they will continue to control a majority of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock. The market price of our Class A common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The market price of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. In addition to the factors discussed in this Risk Factors section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our Class A common stock include the following: general economic, regulatory, and market conditions, in particular conditions that adversely affect our sellers business and the amount of transactions they are processing; public health crises and related measures to protect the public health, such as the COVID-19 pandemic; sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders; issuance of shares of our Class A common stock, whether in connection with an acquisition or upon conversion of some or all of our outstanding Notes; short selling of our Class A common stock or related derivative securities; 43 from time to time we make investments in equity that is, or may become, publicly held, and we may experience volatility due to changes in the market prices of such equity investments; fluctuations in the price of bitcoin, and potentially any impairment charges in connection with our investments in bitcoin; reports by securities or industry analysts that are interpreted either negatively or positively by investors, failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage and/or to provide accurate consensus results of us, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts who follow us, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; the financial or other projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections, or our failure to meet those projections; announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; actual or perceived data security incidents that we or our service providers may suffer; and actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors businesses, or the competitive landscape generally. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our Class A common stock. In connection with the issuance of each series of our Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with the option counterparties. We also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties pursuant to which we sold warrants for the purchase of our Class A common stock. The convertible note hedge transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution to our Class A common stock upon any conversion of the Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes, as the case may be. The warrant transactions would separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our Class A common stock exceeds the strike price of any warrants unless, subject to the terms of the warrant transactions, we elect to cash settle the warrants. From time to time, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our Class A common stock and/or purchasing or selling our Class A common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Notes. This activity could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our Class A common stock. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws, and provisions of Delaware law could impair a takeover attempt. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors and therefore depress the trading price of our Class A common stock. Among other things, our dual-class common stock structure provides our holders of Class B common stock with the ability to significantly influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, even if they own significantly less than a majority of the shares of our outstanding shares of common stock. Further, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions (i) creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; (ii) authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend, and other rights superior to our common stock; (iii) limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; (iv) eliminating the ability of our stockholders to act by written consent without a meeting or to remove directors without cause; and (v) requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of 44 candidates for election to our board of directors. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents certain stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding capital stock from engaging in certain business combinations without the approval of our board of directors or the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding capital stock not held by such stockholder. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our capital stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our Class A common stock. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, or other employees to us or to our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law; or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our amended and restated bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate headquarters, which include product development, sales, marketing, and business operations, are located in San Francisco, California. It consists of 469,056 square feet of space under a lease that expires in 2023. We also lease 59,905 square feet in New York, New York for a product development, sales, and business operations office under a lease that expires in 2025. In December 2018, we entered into a lease arrangement for 355,762 square feet of office space in Oakland, California under a lease that expires in 2031. In July 2019, the Company entered into a lease arrangement for 226,185 square feet of office space in St Louis, Missouri, for a term of 15.5 years with options to extend the lease term for two 5-year terms. The lease commencement date varies by floor beginning in May 2020. In addition, we also have offices in several other locations and believe our facilities are sufficient for our current needs. 45 Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are currently a party to, and may in the future be involved in, various litigation matters (including intellectual property litigation), legal claims, and government investigations. For information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved, see Litigation in Note 18 of the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, from time to time, we are involved in various other litigation matters and disputes arising in the ordinary course of business. We cannot at this time fairly estimate a reasonable range of exposure, if any, of the potential liability with respect to these other matters. While we do not believe, at this time, that any ultimate liability resulting from any of these other matters will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity, we cannot give any assurance regarding the ultimate outcome of these other matters, and their resolution could be material to our operating results for any particular period. 46 Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 47 PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information for Common Stock Our Class A common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SQ on November 19, 2015. Prior to that date, there was no public trading market for our Class A common stock. There is no public trading market for our Class B common stock. Holders of Record As of February 18, 2021, there were 131 holders of record of our Class A common stock and 43 holders of record of our Class B common stock. Because many of our shares of Class A common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of beneficial owners of our Class A common stock represented by these record holders. Dividend Policy We have never declared nor paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation of our business and do not expect to pay any dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable laws, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities In connection with the acquisition of a technology company completed in the three months ended March 31, 2020, which we previously reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2020, we issued 165,976 shares of our Class A common stock subject to certain vesting conditions, pursuant to exemptions from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2). This issuance was in addition to the 191,041 shares of our Class A common stock reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2020 in connection with the same acquisition. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total number of Shares purchased Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs Maximum number (or approximate dollar value) of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs October 1 to October 31 234,060 (i) $168.74 (ii) November 1 to November 30 588,762 (iii) $156.55 (ii) December 1 to December 31 715,028 (iv) $214,00 (ii) Total 1,537,850 $173.47 (ii) (i) Includes 14,779 shares that have been withheld by the Company to satisfy its tax withholding and remittance obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards. In addition, the Company exercised a pro-rata portion of the 2022 convertible note hedges (described in Note 13, Indebtedness , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) to offset the shares of the Company's Class A common stock issued to settle the conversion of certain 2022 Notes. The note 48 hedges were net shares settled and the Company received 219,281 shares of the Company's Class A common stock from the counterparties in October of 2020. (ii) Excludes the shares received through the exercise of the note hedges. (iii) Includes 7,586 shares that have been withheld by the Company to satisfy its tax withholding and remittance obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards. In addition, the Company exercised a pro-rata portion of the 2022 convertible note hedges (described in Note 13, Indebtedness , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) to offset the shares of the Company's Class A common stock issued to settle the conversion of certain 2022 Notes. The note hedges were net shares settled and the Company received 581,176 shares of the Company's Class A common stock from the counterparties in November of 2020. (iv) Includes 4,888 shares that have been withheld by the Company to satisfy its tax withholding and remittance obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards. In addition, the Company exercised a pro-rata portion of the 2022 convertible note hedges (described in Note 13, Indebtedness , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) to offset the shares of the Company's Class A common stock issued to settle the conversion of certain 2022 Notes. The note hedges were net shares settled and the Company received 710,140 shares of the Company's Class A common stock from the counterparties in December of 2020. 49 Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Square, Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act. The following graph compares the cumulative total return to stockholders on our common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the Standard & Poors 500 Index, or S&P 500, and the S&P North American Technology Index. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in our Class A common stock and in each index on December 31, 2015 and its relative performance is tracked through December 31, 2020. The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance. Company/Index 12/31/2015 12/31/2016 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2019 12/31/2020 Square, Inc. 100.00 104.13 264.86 428.49 477.92 1,662.64 S&P 500 100.00 111.96 136.4 130.42 171.49 203.04 S&P North American Technology 100.00 113.56 156.46 160.96 229.67 333.37 50 Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2020, and 2019, have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following selected consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2017, and 2016, and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements which are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Total net revenue 9,497,578 4,713,500 3,298,177 2,214,253 1,708,721 Total cost of revenue 6,764,169 2,823,815 1,994,477 1,374,947 1,132,683 Gross profit 2,733,409 1,889,685 1,303,700 839,306 576,038 Total operating expenses 2,752,224 1,863,128 1,340,314 893,512 746,491 Operating income (loss) (18,815) 26,557 (36,614) (54,206) (170,453) Net income (loss) $ 213,105 $ 375,446 $ (38,453) $ (62,813) $ (171,590) Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ 0.48 $ 0.88 $ (0.09) $ (0.17) $ (0.50) Diluted $ 0.44 $ 0.81 $ (0.09) $ (0.17) $ (0.50) Weighted-average shares used to compute net income (loss) per share: Basic 443,126 424,999 405,731 379,344 341,555 Diluted 482,167 466,076 405,731 379,344 341,555 December 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 (in thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,158,058 $ 1,047,118 $ 583,173 $ 696,474 $ 452,030 Total investments in debt-securities 1,159,062 1,029,759 1,005,671 373,243 87,267 Settlements receivable 1,024,895 588,692 364,946 620,523 321,102 Customer funds 2,037,832 676,292 334,017 103,042 43,574 Working capital 3,635,525 1,525,716 1,093,364 805,467 423,961 Total assets 9,869,550 4,551,258 3,281,023 2,187,270 1,211,362 Customers payable 3,009,051 1,273,135 749,215 733,736 431,632 Long-term debt 2,586,924 938,832 899,695 358,572 Total stockholders equity 2,681,569 1,715,050 1,120,501 786,333 576,153 51 Key Operating Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures We collect and analyze operating and financial data to evaluate the health of our business, allocate our resources, and assess our performance. In addition to total net revenue, net income (loss), and other results under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the following table sets forth key operating metrics and non-GAAP financial measures we use to evaluate our business. We believe these metrics and measures are useful to facilitate period-to-period comparisons of our business, and to facilitate comparisons of our performance to that of other payment solution providers. Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 (i) ( in thousands, except for GPV and per share data) Gross Payment Volume (GPV) (in millions) $ 112,295 $ 106,239 $ 84,654 $ 65,343 $ 49,683 Adjusted EBITDA $ 474,071 $ 416,853 $ 256,523 $ 139,009 $ 44,887 Adjusted Net Income Per Share: Basic $ 0.95 $ 0.90 $ 0.55 $ 0.30 $ 0.04 Diluted $ 0.84 $ 0.80 $ 0.47 $ 0.27 $ 0.04 (i) For 2016, each of these metrics and measures excludes the effect of our processing agreement with Starbucks which transitioned to another payments solutions provider in the fourth quarter of 2016. As transactions with Starbucks have not recurred, we believe it is useful to exclude Starbucks activity to clearly show the impact Starbucks has had on our financial results historically. Our agreements with other sellers generally provide both those sellers and us the unilateral right to terminate such agreements at any time, without fine or penalty. Gross Payment Volume (GPV) We define GPV as the total dollar amount of all card payments processed by sellers using Square, net of refunds. Additionally, GPV includes Cash App activity related to Cash for Business and peer-to-peer payments sent from a credit card. As described above, GPV excludes card payments processed for Starbucks. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share (Adjusted EPS) Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EPS are non-GAAP financial measures that represent our net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share, adjusted to eliminate the effect of items as described below. We have included these non-GAAP financial measures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because they are key measures used by our management to evaluate our operating performance, generate future operating plans, and make strategic decisions, including those relating to operating expenses and the allocation of internal resources. Accordingly, we believe these measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. In addition, they provide useful measures for period-to-period comparisons of our business, as they remove the effect of certain non-cash items and certain variable charges. For 2016, we exclude Starbucks transaction-based revenue and Starbucks transaction-based costs. As described above, Starbucks ceased using our payments solutions altogether in the fourth quarter of 2016, and we believe that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of Starbucks is useful to investors. We believe it is useful to exclude certain non-cash charges, such as amortization of intangible assets, and share-based compensation expenses, from our non-GAAP financial measures because the amount of such expenses in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations. In connection with the issuance of our convertible senior notes (as described in Note 13, Indebtedness, of the notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements), we are required to recognize non-cash interest expense related to amortization of debt discount and issuance costs. We believe that excluding these expenses from our non-GAAP measures is useful to investors because such incremental non-cash interest expense does not represent a current or future cash outflow for the Company and is therefore not indicative of our continuing operations or meaningful when comparing current results to past results. Additionally, for purposes of calculating diluted Adjusted EPS we 52 add back cash interest expense on convertible senior notes, as if converted at the beginning of the period, if the impact is dilutive. We exclude gain or loss on the disposal of property and equipment, gain on sale of asset group, gain or loss on revaluation of equity investment, gain or loss on debt extinguishment related to the conversion of senior notes and impairment of intangible assets, as applicable, and the litigation settlement with Robert E. Morley in 2016 from non-GAAP financial measures because we do not believe that these items are reflective of our ongoing business operations. We also exclude certain costs associated with acquisitions that are not normal operating expenses, including amounts paid to redeem acquirees unvested share-based compensation awards, and legal, accounting and due diligence costs, and we add back the impact of the acquired deferred revenue and deferred cost adjustment, which was written down to fair value in purchase accounting. Such amounts were not included in prior periods as they were immaterial or zero. In addition to the items above, Adjusted EBITDA as a non-GAAP financial measure also excludes depreciation, other cash interest income and expense, other income and expense and provision or benefit from income taxes, as these items are not components of our core business operations. Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations, should be considered as supplemental in nature and are not meant as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. These limitations include the following: share-based compensation expense has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy; the intangible assets being amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and the non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditures or other capital commitments; and non-GAAP measures do not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs. In addition to the limitations above, Adjusted EBITDA as a non-GAAP financial measure does not reflect the effect of depreciation expense and related cash capital requirements, income taxes that may represent a reduction in cash available to us, and the effect of foreign currency exchange gains or losses, which is included in other income and expense. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate the non-GAAP financial measures differently or not at all, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Because of these limitations, you should consider the non-GAAP financial measures alongside other financial performance measures, including net income (loss) and our other financial results presented in accordance with GAAP. 53 The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Net income (loss) $ 213,105 $ 375,446 $ (38,453) $ (62,813) $ (171,590) Starbucks transaction-based revenue (78,903) Starbucks transaction-based costs 69,761 Share-based compensation expense 397,500 297,863 216,881 155,836 138,786 Depreciation and amortization 84,212 75,598 60,961 37,279 37,745 Litigation settlement expense 48,000 Interest expense (income), net 56,943 21,516 17,982 10,053 (533) Other (income) expense, net (291,725) 273 (18,469) (1,595) (247) Provision for income taxes 2,862 2,767 2,326 149 1,917 Loss (gain) on disposal of property and equipment 2,570 1,008 (224) 100 (49) Gain on sale of asset group (373,445) Acquisition related and other costs 7,482 9,739 4,708 Acquired deferred revenue adjustment 1,497 7,457 12,853 Acquired deferred costs adjustment (375) (1,369) (2,042) Adjusted EBITDA $ 474,071 $ 416,853 $ 256,523 $ 139,009 $ 44,887 54 The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share for each of the periods indicated (in thousands, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Net income (loss) $ 213,105 $ 375,446 $ (38,453) $ (62,813) $ (171,590) Starbucks transaction-based revenue (78,903) Starbucks transaction-based costs 69,761 Share-based compensation expense 397,500 297,863 216,881 155,836 138,786 Amortization of intangible assets 19,239 15,000 13,103 7,615 9,013 Litigation settlement expense 48,000 Amortization of debt discount and issuance costs 67,979 39,139 32,855 14,223 Loss (gain) on revaluation of equity investments (295,297) 12,326 (20,342) Loss on extinguishment of long-term debt 6,651 5,028 Loss (gain) on disposal of property and equipment 2,570 1,008 (224) 100 (49) Gain on sale of asset group (373,445) Acquisition related and other costs 7,482 9,739 4,708 Acquired deferred revenue adjustment 1,497 7,457 12,853 Acquired deferred cost adjustment (375) (1,369) (2,042) Adjusted Net Income - basic $ 420,351 $ 383,164 $ 224,367 $ 114,961 $ 15,018 Cash interest expense on convertible senior notes 6,078 5,108 1,292 Adjusted Net Income - diluted $ 426,429 $ 388,272 $ 225,659 $ 114,961 $ 15,018 Adjusted Net Income Per Share: Basic $ 0.95 $ 0.90 $ 0.55 $ 0.30 $ 0.04 Diluted $ 0.84 $ 0.80 $ 0.47 $ 0.27 $ 0.04 Weighted-average shares used to compute Adjusted Net Income Per Share: Basic 443,126 424,999 405,731 379,344 341,555 Diluted 507,229 486,381 478,895 426,519 370,258 To calculate the diluted Adjusted EPS we adjust the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the dilutive effect of all potential shares of common stock. In periods when we recorded an Adjusted Net Loss, the diluted Adjusted EPS is the same as basic Adjusted EPS because the effects of potentially dilutive items were anti-dilutive given the Adjusted Net Loss position. 55 Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with the information set forth under Selected Financial Data and our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The statements in this discussion regarding our expectations of our future performance, liquidity, and capital resources; our plans, estimates, beliefs, and expectations that involve risks and uncertainties; and other non-historical statements in this discussion are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview We started Square in February 2009 to enable businesses (sellers) to accept card payments, an important capability that was previously inaccessible to many businesses. However, sellers need many innovative solutions to thrive, and we have expanded to provide them additional products and services and to give them access to a cohesive ecosystem of tools to help them manage and grow their businesses. Similarly, with Cash App, we have built a parallel ecosystem of financial services to help individuals manage their money. Our Seller ecosystem is a cohesive commerce ecosystem that helps sellers start, run and grow their businesses, and consists of over 30 distinct software, hardware, and financial services products. We monetize these products through a combination of transaction, subscription, and service fees. Our suite of cloud-based software solutions are integrated to create a seamless experience and enable a holistic view of sales, customers, employees, and locations. With our offering, a seller can accept payments in person via swipe, dip, or tap of a card or online via Square Invoices, Square Virtual Terminal, or the sellers website. We also provide hardware to facilitate commerce for sellers, which includes magstripe readers, contactless and chip readers, Square Stand, Square Register, Square Terminal, and third-party peripherals. Square Card is a business prepaid card that enables sellers to spend the balance they have stored with Square. Sellers can also deposit funds into their Square stored balance so they can manage all of their business expenses in one place. Sellers also gain access to business loans through Square Capital based on the seller's payment processing history. We recognize revenue upon the sale of the loans to third-party investors or over time as the sellers pay down the outstanding amounts for the loans that we hold as available for sale . We have grown rapidly to serve millions of sellers that represent a diverse set of industries (including services, food-related business, and retail businesses) and sizes, ranging from a single vendor at a farmers market to multi-location businesses. Square sellers also span geographies, including the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, and the United Kingdom. Our Cash App ecosystem provides financial tools for individuals to store, send, receive, spend and invest money. With Cash App, customers can fund their account with a bank account or debit card, send and receive P2P (peer-to-peer) payments, and receive direct deposit payments. Customers can make purchases with their Cash Card, a Visa prepaid card that is linked to the balance stored in Cash App. With Cash Boost, customers receive instant discounts when they make Cash Card purchases at designated merchants. Customers can also use their stored funds to buy and sell bitcoin and equity investments within Cash App. In the fourth quarter of 2020, we acquired Credit Karma Tax, which adds a tax filing product for individuals to Cash App's ecosystem which provides a seamless, mobile-first solution for individuals to file their taxes for free. Effective June 30, 2020, we changed from one reportable segment to two reportable segments to reflect the way management and our chief operating decision maker (CODM) review and assess performance of the business. Our two reportable segments are Seller and Cash App. Seller includes managed payment services, software solutions, hardware and financial services products offered to sellers, while Cash App includes financial tools available to individuals such as P2P (peer-to-peer) payments, Cash Card transactions, bitcoin and stock investing. In April 2020, we were licensed to participate in the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) administered by the Small Business Administration (SBA) that was enacted in March 2020 under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act ("CARES Act") in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The PPP is intended to provide relief to eligible businesses impacted by COVID-19, and to incentivize businesses to keep their workers on the payroll. For the year ended 56 December 31, 2020, we facilitated the issuance of $857 million of PPP loans, excluding cancelled loans, through an external bank partner, of which we sold $399.0 million to an investor. These loans are guaranteed by the U.S. government. Additionally, the loans are eligible for forgiveness if the borrowers meet certain criteria. As of December 31, 2020, approximately $46.4 million in PPP loans held for sale on our consolidated balance sheet have been forgiven by the SBA. In February 2021, we began participating in the second round of the PPP program by accepting applications from certain existing Square customers who received a loan in the spring of 2020. Similar to the loans issued in the first round of PPP, the loans are guaranteed by the U.S. government and will be eligible for forgiveness if the borrowers meet certain criteria. On June 2, 2020, we entered into the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (First PPPLF Agreement) to secure additional credit in an aggregate principal amount of up to $500.0 million. The program was established by the Federal Reserve to supplement the SBA's PPP to support the economy in response to the COVID-19 crisis. The facility is intended to bolster the effectiveness of the PPP and provide liquidity to credit markets, helping to stabilize financial institutions supporting COVID-19 relief efforts. Borrowings under the facility accrue interest at a rate of 0.35% and advances must be collateralized with loans originated under the PPP. The maturity date of any PPPLF advance will be the maturity date of the PPP loan pledged to secure the advance, and will be accelerated upon the occurrence of certain events of default. The advances under this facility are also repayable if the associated PPP loans are forgiven, repaid by the customer, or settled by the government guarantee. As of December 31, 2020, $464.1 million of PPPLF advances were outstanding and collateralized by the same value of the PPP loans held for sale on our consolidated balance sheet. On January 29, 2021, we entered into a second PPPLF agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (Second PPPLF Agreement and together with the First PPPLF Agreement, PPPLF Agreements) to secure additional credit, collateralized by loans from the second round of the PPP program, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1.0 billion under both PPPLF Agreements. On March 5, 2020, we issued $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes that mature on March 1, 2025 (2025 Notes), unless earlier converted or repurchased pursuant to their terms, and bear interest at a rate of 0.1250% payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. On November 13, 2020, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $1.150 billion of convertible senior notes comprised of $575 million of convertible senior notes that mature on May 1, 2026 (2026 Notes) with a 0.0% coupon interest rate, and $575 million of convertible senior notes that mature on November 1, 2027 (2027 Notes) with a 0.25% coupon interest rate. The 2026 Notes and 2027 Notes will mature on each of its respective dates, unless earlier converted or repurchased. The 2027 Notes will bear interest at a rate of 0.25% payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year beginning on May 1, 2021. We intend to use the net proceeds from our 2025, 2026 and 2027 Notes offerings for general corporate purposes, which may include capital expenditures, investments, working capital, and potential acquisitions and strategic transactions. Impact of COVID-19 on Current Trends and Outlook By March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 pandemic a global pandemic following which, many local governments issued various mandates and public health guidelines requiring the closure of non-essential businesses and the curtailing of all unnecessary travel. These orders also required individuals to comply with various shelter-in-place and social distancing orders. As a result, the vast majority of our customers in those affected areas experienced a significant decline in sales in the first half of 2020. In the second half of 2020, as some shelter-in-place orders were relaxed, we saw modest improvements in certain areas including positive growth from higher priced card-not-present transactions as sellers adapted their businesses to contactless commerce, new sellers that joined Square, and the positive impact of various government assistance programs that led to an increase in consumer spending. However, Seller GPV trends have continued to vary by region and depended on regional shelter-in-place restrictions and COVID-19 guidelines. We also experienced an increase in Cash App engagement as a result of customer adoption of multiple products and the deposit of government stimulus funds and unemployment benefits into Cash App customer accounts. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we took measures to assist our customers that we believed were in the best interests of our sellers in the long term, including refunding software subscription fees during the months of March and April 2020 as well as introducing options for sellers to temporarily pause and resume their subscriptions. While we continue to actively monitor the worldwide spread of COVID-19, the extent to which COVID-19 will ultimately impact our business remains difficult to predict. Growth trends continued to vary by region, product, and vertical, depending primarily on differences in the timing and phases of reopenings, which we expect will have a significant impact on overall GPV trends. Our priority remains the safety of our employees, customers and the communities in which we live and operate. We continue to remain in close and regular contact with our employees, customers, business partners and communities to help navigate these challenging times. 57 Areas in which we continuously evaluate the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our financial statements, include, and are not limited to, accrued transaction losses and fair value of loans, and to a lesser extent, the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, impairment of long-lived assets including operating lease right-of-use assets, and property and equipment. We have concluded that our goodwill and other long lived assets are not impaired as of December 31, 2020. We continue to revise our estimates and assumptions to reflect any changes in transaction and loan losses in our financial statements. Where applicable, we have incorporated judgments and estimates of the expected impact of COVID-19 in the preparation of the financial statements based on information currently available. These judgments and estimates are subject to change, as new developments occur and additional information is obtained and are recognized in the consolidated financial statements as they become known. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Transaction-based revenue. We charge our sellers a transaction fee that is generally calculated based on a percentage of the total transaction amount processed. We also selectively offer custom pricing for certain larger sellers. Transaction-based revenue also includes amounts we charge our Cash App customers for peer-to-peer transactions to business accounts and payments sent from a credit card. Subscription and services-based revenue. Revenue from Cash App, Square Capital, and Instant Transfers for sellers currently comprise the majority of our subscription and services-based revenue. Cash App subscription and services-based revenue is primarily comprised of transaction fees from both Cash App Instant Deposit and Cash Card. Our other subscription and services-based products include website hosting and domain name registration services, Gift Cards, Square Appointments, Customer Engagement, Employee Management, Payroll, Square Card, and other product offerings. Prior to 2020, subscriptions and services-based revenue also included revenue generated from Caviar, a food ordering and delivery platform that we sold in the fourth quarter of 2019. Instant Deposit is a functionality within the Cash App and our managed payment solutions that enables customers to instantly deposit funds into their bank accounts, while Cash Card offers Cash App customers the ability use their stored funds via a Visa prepaid card that is linked to the balance the customer stores in Cash App. We charge a per transaction fee which we recognize as revenue when customers instantly deposit funds to their bank account, use their Cash Card to make a purchase, or withdraw funds. Square Capital facilitates loans to sellers that are offered through a partnership bank and are generally repaid through withholding a percentage of the collections of the seller's receivables processed by us. We also facilitate loans to the customers of certain sellers as well as to the sellers of its partners who do not process payments with us. The loans are generally originated by a bank partner, from whom we purchase the loans obtaining all rights, title, and interest. Our intention is to sell the rights, title, and interest in certain loans to third-party investors for an upfront fee when the loans are sold. We are retained by the third-party investors to service the loans and earn a servicing fee for facilitating the repayment of these receivables through our payments solutions. In April 2020, Square Capital was licensed to participate in the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) administered by the Small Business Administration. These loans are guaranteed by the U.S. government and are eligible for forgiveness if the borrowers meet certain criteria. Hardware revenue. Hardware revenue includes revenue from sales of contactless and chip readers, Square Stand, Square Register, Square Terminal, and third-party peripherals. Third-party peripherals include cash drawers, receipt printers, and barcode scanners, all of which can be integrated with Square Stand, Square Register, or Square Terminal to provide a comprehensive point-of-sale solution. Bitcoin revenue. Our Cash App customers have the ability to purchase bitcoin, a cryptocurrency. We recognize revenue when customers purchase bitcoin and it is transferred to the customer's account. We purchase bitcoin from private broker dealers or from Cash App customers and apply a small margin before selling it to our customers. The sale amounts received from our customers are recorded as revenue on a gross basis and the associated bitcoin cost as cost of revenues, as we are the principal in the bitcoin sale transaction. We have determined we are the principal because we control the bitcoin before delivery to the customer, we are primarily responsible for the delivery of the bitcoin to the customer, we are exposed 58 to risks arising from fluctuations of the market price of bitcoin before delivery to the customer, and we have discretion in setting prices charged to the customer. Bitcoin revenue may fluctuate as a result of changes in customer demand or the market price of bitcoin. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Transaction-based costs. Transaction-based costs consist primarily of interchange and assessment fees, processing fees, and bank settlement fees paid to third-party payment processors and financial institutions. Subscription and services-based costs. Subscription and services-based costs consist primarily of costs related to Cash App including Instant Deposit and Cash Card as well as Instant Transfer for sellers. Caviar costs were also a significant component of the subscription and services-based costs, prior to the sale of Caviar on October 31, 2019. Hardware costs. Hardware costs consist primarily of product costs associated with contactless and chip readers, Square Terminal, Square Stand, Square Register, and third-party peripherals. Product costs include manufacturing-related overhead and personnel costs, certain royalties, packaging, and fulfillment costs. Hardware is sold primarily as a means to grow our transaction-based revenue and, as a result, generating positive gross margins from hardware sales is not the primary goal of the hardware business. Bitcoin costs . Bitcoin cost of revenue is comprised of the amounts we pay to purchase bitcoin, which will fluctuate in line with the price of bitcoin in the market. We purchase bitcoin to facilitate customers access to bitcoin. Amortization of acquired technology . These costs consist of amortization related to technologies acquired through acquisitions. These amounts were not material to our financial statements. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of product development, sales and marketing, general and administrative expenses, transaction and loan losses, and amortization of acquired customer assets. For product development and general and administrative expenses, the largest single component is personnel-related expenses, including salaries, commissions and bonuses, employee benefit costs, and share-based compensation. In the case of sales and marketing expenses, a significant portion is related to the Cash App peer-to-peer transactions and Cash Card issuance costs, in addition to paid advertising and personnel-related expenses. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities, human resources, and IT. Product development. Product development expenses currently represent the largest component of our operating expenses and consist primarily of expenses related to our engineering, data science, and design personnel; fees and supply costs related to maintenance at third-party data center facilities; hardware related development and tooling costs; and fees for software licenses, consulting, legal, and other services that are directly related to growing and maintaining our portfolio of products and services. Additionally, product development expenses include the depreciation of product-related infrastructure and tools, including data center equipment, internally developed software, and computer equipment. We continue to focus our product development efforts on adding new features and apps, and on enhancing the functionality and ease of use of our offerings. Our ability to realize returns on these investments is substantially dependent upon our ability to successfully address current and emerging requirements of sellers, buyers, and customers through the development and introduction of these new products and services. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses are aggregated into two main components. The first component consists of traditional advertising costs incurred such as direct sales expense, account management, local and product marketing, retail and e-commerce, partnerships, and communications personnel. The second component of sales and marketing expense consists of costs incurred for services, incentives and other costs that are not directly related to revenue generating transactions that we consider to be marketing costs to encourage the usage of Cash App. These expenses include, but are not limited to, Cash App peer-to-peer processing costs and transaction losses, card issuance costs, customer referral bonuses, and promotional giveaways that are expensed as incurred. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of expenses related to our customer support, finance, legal, risk operations, human resources, and administrative personnel. General and administrative expenses also include costs related to fees paid for professional services, including legal, tax, and accounting services. 59 Transaction and loan losses. We are exposed to transaction losses due to chargebacks as a result of fraud or uncollectibility. We incur loan losses whenever the amortized cost of loans that have been retained exceeds their fair value. Transaction losses include chargebacks for unauthorized credit card use and inability to collect on disputes between buyers and sellers over the delivery of goods or services, as well as losses on Cash App activity related to peer-to-peer payments sent from a credit card, Cash for Business, and Cash Card. We base our reserve estimates on prior chargeback history and current period data points indicative of transaction loss. We reflect additions to the reserve in current operating results, while realized losses are offset against the reserve. The establishment of appropriate reserves for transaction losses is an inherently uncertain process, and ultimate losses may vary from the current estimates. We regularly update our reserve estimates as new facts become known and events occur that may affect the settlement or recovery of losses. Loan losses are recorded at the lower of amortized cost or fair value determined on an individual loan basis. To determine the fair value the Company utilizes industry-standard valuation modeling, such as discounted cash flow models, taking into account the estimated timing and amounts of periodic repayments. The Company recognizes a charge whenever the amortized cost of a loan exceeds its fair value, with such charges being reversed for subsequent increases in fair value, but only to the extent that such reversals do not result in the amortized cost of a loan exceeding its fair value. Amortization of acquired customer assets. Amortization of acquired customer assets includes customer relationships, restaurant relationships, courier relationships, subscriber relationships, and partner relationships. These amounts were not material to our financial statements. Gain on sale of asset group Gain on sale of asset group in 2019 represents the excess of the consideration received from the disposal of the Caviar business less the carrying values of the net assets sold. Interest and Other Income and Expense, net Interest and other income and expense, net consists primarily of gains or losses arising from marking to market of equity investments, interest expense related to our long-term debt, interest income on our investment in marketable debt securities, and foreign currency-related gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consists primarily of federal, state, local, and foreign tax. Our effective tax rate fluctuates from period to period due to changes in the mix of income and losses in jurisdictions with a wide range of tax rates, the effect of acquisitions, changes resulting from the amount of recorded valuation allowance, permanent differences between U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and local tax laws, certain one-time items, and changes in tax contingencies. 60 Results of Operations Revenue (in thousands, except for percentages) Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Transaction-based revenue $ 3,294,978 $ 3,081,074 $ 213,904 7 % Subscription and services-based revenue 1,539,403 1,031,456 507,947 49 % Hardware revenue 91,654 84,505 7,149 8 % Bitcoin revenue 4,571,543 516,465 4,055,078 785 % Total net revenue $ 9,497,578 $ 4,713,500 $ 4,784,078 101 % Total net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased by $4.8 billion, or 101%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Bitcoin revenue increased by $4.1 billion, and represented 85% of the increase in total net revenue. Excluding bitcoin revenue, total net revenue increased by $729.0 million, or 17%, in the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Transaction-based revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased by $213.9 million or 7%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. This increase was in line with the increase in GPV of 6% for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily attributable to and affected by the following events and factors: In January and February of 2020, we benefited from the growth in payment volume processed by existing sellers, in addition to meaningful contributions from new sellers, compared to the same period in the prior year, which included a benefit from the impact of the leap year; In the second half of March through mid-April, 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent shelter-in-place restrictions, we experienced a significant decline in transaction-based revenue, with GPV generated by our Seller business decreasing compared to the prior year; Beginning in mid-April 2020, we started to experience improving trends in GPV generated by our Seller business, as some states started to relax shelter-in-place measures, sellers adapted their businesses to contactless commerce, new sellers joined Square and various government assistance programs led to an increase in consumer spending; In the third and fourth quarters of 2020, we have experienced positive growth of GPV and revenue compared to the third and fourth quarters of 2019, primarily driven by higher priced card-not-present transactions as sellers continued to shift their businesses to adapt to the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite the decrease in transaction-based revenue as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the overall increase in transaction-based revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 was primarily driven by growth in higher-priced card-not-present transactions as sellers shifted their businesses to adapt to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the impact from our November 2019 card-present price change, as well as Cash App GPV which includes Cash for Business and peer-to-peer payments sent from a credit card. Cash for Business activity includes peer-to-peer transactions to business accounts using Cash App. The factors and events above had varying impacts on the GPV growth and may continue to impact our revenues in the future. In particular, card-present growth varies by region and product, depending primarily on differences in the timing and phases of reopenings, which we expect will have a significant impact on overall GPV trends. Subscription and services-based revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased by $507.9 million or 49%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. On October 31, 2019, we completed the sale of the Caviar business, and, accordingly, Caviar no longer contributes to subscription and services-based revenue. Excluding Caviar, subscription and services-based revenue grew by $653.9 million, or 74%, in the year ended year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 driven predominantly by Cash App, and to a lesser extent Square Card and Instant Transfers for sellers, partially offset by a decrease in Square Capital loan volumes. Cash App subscription and services-based revenue is primarily comprised of transaction fees from both Cash App Instant Deposit and Cash Card, with a small portion generated from interest earned on customer funds. In an effort to support our sellers, we temporarily suspended charging customers 61 software subscription fees and refunded fees collected in March and April 2020. We resumed charging such fees in May 2020. Square Capital, which has historically been a significant component of the subscriptions and services revenue, suspended facilitating loans to sellers, other than PPP loans, in March 2020 but resumed facilitating such loans at the end of July 2020. Loan volumes remain lower than in 2019, and there is substantial uncertainty about when loan volumes will return to pre-COVID-19 levels. Hardware revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased by $7.1 million or 8%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily a result of an increase in sales of hardware in our international markets, as well as sales of contactless hardware as a result of certain promotions offered in the second and third quarter of 2020. Bitcoin revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased by $4.1 billion or 785% compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was due to the market price of bitcoin, growth in the number of active bitcoin customers, as well as volume per customer. The amount of bitcoin revenue recognized will fluctuate depending on customer demand as well as changes in the market price of bitcoin. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we saw a significant growth in bitcoin revenue as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. While bitcoin contributed 48% of the total revenue in 2020, and 85% of the increase in revenues in 2020, gross margin generated from bitcoin was only 3.5% of the total gross margin. Cost of Revenue (in thousands, except for percentages) Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Transaction-based costs $ 1,911,848 $ 1,937,971 $ (26,123) (1) % Subscription and services-based costs 222,712 234,270 (11,558) (5) % Hardware costs 143,901 136,385 7,516 6 % Bitcoin costs 4,474,534 508,239 3,966,295 780 % Amortization of acquired technology 11,174 6,950 4,224 61 % Total cost of revenue $ 6,764,169 $ 2,823,815 $ 3,940,354 140 % Total cost of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased by $3.9 billion, or 140%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Bitcoin costs of revenue increased by $4.0 billion, and represented 101% of the increase in the total cost of revenue. Excluding bitcoin costs of revenue, total cost of revenue decreased by approximately $25.9 million, or 1%, in the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Despite an increase in GPV of 6% for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, transaction-based costs decreased by $26.1 million or 1% for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in transaction-based costs in the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily attributable to growth in debit card transactions and increase in average transaction sizes, which lowered the average cost per transaction, partially offset by the increase in GPV. We recognize that the recent shifts in the percentage of debit card transactions, proportion of card-not-present volumes, and average value per transaction size relative to historical periods are in part, a result of changes to consumer behaviors related to COVID-19, which may not continue in future quarters. Subscription and services-based costs for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased by $11.6 million or 5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily as a result of the sale of the Caviar business on October 31, 2019. Caviar contributed approximately 45% total subscription and services-based costs in year ended December 31, 2019. Excluding Caviar, subscription and services-based costs increased by $92.7 million or 71%, in the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, driven mainly by growth in costs associated with Cash Card and Instant Deposit. Hardware costs for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased by $7.5 million or 6%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily due to the same drivers for the increase in hardware revenue discussed above. Bitcoin costs for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased by $4.0 billion or 780%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Bitcoin costs of revenue comprises of the total amounts we pay to purchase bitcoin, which will fluctuate in line with bitcoin revenue. 62 Product Development (in thousands, except for percentages) Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Product development $ 881,826 $ 670,606 $ 211,220 31 % Percentage of total net revenue 9 % 14 % Product development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased by $211.2 million, or 31%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, due primarily to the following: an increase of $155.4 million in personnel costs for the year ended December 31, 2020, related to an increase in headcount among our engineering, data science, and design teams, as we continue to improve and diversify our products. The increase in personnel related costs includes an increase in share-based compensation expense of $78.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020; an increase of $23.5 million in software and data center operating costs as a result of increased capacity needs and expansion of our cloud-based services. Sales and Marketing (in thousands, except for percentages) Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Sales and marketing $ 1,109,670 $ 624,832 $ 484,838 78 % Percentage of total net revenue 12 % 13 % Sales and marketing expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased by $484.8 million, or 78%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily due to the following: an increase in Cash App marketing costs for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase in Cash App marketing relates to a $355.6 million increase in processing costs and related transaction losses associated with the increased volume of activity with our Cash App peer-to-peer service, increased card issuance costs and increased incentives to customers that are not directly related to revenue generating transactions. We offer services such as stock investing, and certain Cash Card and peer-to-peer services to our Cash App customers for free, and various incentives to customers that we consider to be marketing tools to encourage the usage of Cash App. Additionally, Cash App advertising costs increased by $52.5 million; an increase of $29.6 million in advertising costs for our Seller Ecosystem services for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily from increased online and television marketing campaigns; an increase of $28.3 million in Seller and Cash App sales and marketing personnel costs for the year ended December 31, 2020, to enable growth initiatives. The increase in personnel related costs includes an increase in share-based compensation expense of $9.9 million. General and Administrative (in thousands, except for percentages) Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change General and administrative $ 579,203 $ 436,250 $ 142,953 33 % Percentage of total net revenue 6 % 9 % General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased by $143.0 million, or 33%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily due to the following: 63 an increase of $58.7 million in general and administrative personnel costs for the year ended December 31, 2020, mainly as a result of additions to our customer support, finance, and legal personnel as we continued to add resources and skills to support our long-term growth as our business continues to scale. The increase in personnel related costs includes an increase in share-based compensation expense of $10.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020; and the remaining increase was primarily due to the commencement of new leases, software and subscription costs, local business-related taxes, third-party legal and other professional fees and other administrative expenses, as well as impact of our statutory reserves. Transaction and Loan Losses (in thousands, except for percentages) Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Transaction and loan losses $ 177,670 $ 126,959 $ 50,711 40 % Transaction and loan losses for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased by $50.7 million, or 40%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily due to the following: transaction losses increased by $44.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 due to growth in our Cash App business, as well as increased provisions for transaction losses for our Seller business due to the expected impact of the COVID-19 pandemic that resulted in a significant slowdown in business for many sellers. an increase of $6.0 million in loan losses for the year ended December 31, 2020 due to incremental provisions for loan losses associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, and to a lesser extent the aging of our Square Capital loan portfolio. The increases in loan losses were offset by decreases in loan volumes as we suspended offers for new loans, other than PPP loans, in March 2020 and resumed offering such loans at the end of July 2020 at lower volumes. Gain on Sale of Asset Group, Interest Expense, Net, and Other Expense (Income), Net (in thousands, except for percentages) Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Gain on sale of asset group $ $ (373,445) $ 373,445 NM Interest expense, net 56,943 21,516 35,427 165 % Other expense (income), net (291,725) 273 (291,998) NM Gain on sale of asset group represents the excess of the consideration received from the sale of the Caviar business in October, 2019, of $410 million less the carrying value of the net assets sold and selling expenses, as analyzed in Note 8, Sale of Asset Group, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest expense, net, for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased by $35.4 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increases were primarily due to higher interest expense related to our convertible notes as a result of the issuance of the 2025 Notes in March 2020, as well as the 2026 Notes and 2027 Notes in November 2020, in addition to a decrease in interest income earned on our investments in marketable debt securities due to lower interest rates prevailing in the market. Other expense (income), net was primarily driven by the amounts of gains or losses arising from the revaluation of our equity investments. In November 2020, upon DoorDash's initial public offering, the preferred shares held by the Company converted into common shares of DoorDash. As of December 31, 2020, the Company revalued this investment and recorded a gain of $276.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2020. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2020, we recorded a gain on investment in a privately held entity of $19.0 million based on observable prices for similar equity instruments issued by 64 the same entity. In the year ended December 31, 2019, we recorded a loss of $12.3 million on the revaluation of our equity investment Eventbrite, Inc. ("Eventbrite"), offset by the amortization of and realized gains on the sale of investments in marketable securities of $9.7 million, foreign exchange gains of $1.7 million, and other sources of income. In December 2019, the Company sold its entire equity investment in Eventbrite and as a result this investment will not impact the results in future periods. Segment Results Seller Results The following tables provide a summary of the revenue and gross profit for our Seller segment for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Net revenue $ 3,529,192 $ 3,461,988 $ 67,204 2 % Cost of revenue 2,021,361 2,071,561 (50,200) (2) % Gross profit $ 1,507,831 $ 1,390,427 $ 117,404 8 % Revenue Revenue for the Seller segment for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased by $67.2 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent shelter-in-place orders resulted in a material decline in Seller revenues in the latter half of March 2020 through mid-April 2020 due to lower GPV processed. Additionally, Square Capital suspended facilitating loans to sellers from mid-March 2020 through the end of July 2020, other than PPP loans, further negatively impacting Seller revenues. Excluding the impact of Square Capital, other Seller subscription and services-based revenue increased due to growth in software subscriptions, Instant Transfers, and Square Card. This was offset by the recovery and improvements in GPV processed from mid-April through the fourth quarter of 2020 as states started relaxing the shelter-in-place orders and businesses started to adapt to the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, we saw a higher percentage of card-not-present transactions from the second quarter through to the fourth quarter of 2020, which have a higher transaction price, as well as the impact of our November 2019 card-present price change. Recent increases in the percentage of debit, proportion of card-not-present volumes, and average transaction size relative to historical periods are in part a result of changes to consumer behaviors related to COVID-19, which may not continue in future quarters. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue for the Seller segment for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased by $50.2 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Seller costs benefited from a higher percentage of debit card transactions and increase in average value per transaction which have lower costs. Cash App Results The following tables provide a summary of the revenue and gross profit for our Cash App segment for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Net revenue $ 5,968,386 $ 1,105,599 $ 4,862,787 440 % Cost of revenue 4,742,808 647,931 4,094,877 632 % Gross profit $ 1,225,578 $ 457,668 $ 767,910 168 % 65 Revenue Revenue for the Cash App segment for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased by $4.9 billion compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The primary drivers were growth in bitcoin revenue, and to a lesser extent, Cash App Instant Deposit, Cash Card, and Cash for Business. Bitcoin revenue increased primarily due to an increase in the number of active bitcoin customers, as well as growth in customer demand and bitcoin prices. Additionally, Cash App revenue benefited from increased numbers of transacting active Cash App customers and from disbursements of the CARES Act stimulus programs and unemployment benefits, including a portion of customers who direct deposited these payments into their Cash App accounts. Cash App revenue growth may not be sustained at the same levels in future quarters and may be impacted by the enactment of further stimulus relief and benefit programs, as well as the demand and market prices for bitcoin, amongst other factors. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue for the Cash App segment for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased by $4.1 billion compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The primary drivers for the increase were growth in bitcoin revenue, and to a lesser extent, Cash App Instant Deposit, Cash Card, and Cash for Business. Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 For a discussion of the 2019 Results of Operations, including a discussion of the financial results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, refer to Part I, Item 7 of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 26, 2020. 66 Quarterly Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected unaudited quarterly statements of operations data for the last eight quarters. The information for each of these quarters has been prepared on the same basis as the audited annual financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in the opinion of management, includes all adjustments, which consist only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair presentation of the results of operations for these periods. This data should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of the results we may achieve in future periods. Three Months Ended, Dec. 31, 2020 Sep. 30, 2020 Jun. 30, 2020 Mar. 31, 2020 Dec. 31, 2019 Sep. 30, 2019 Jun. 30, 2019 Mar. 31, 2019 (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited) Revenue: Transaction-based revenue $ 929,011 $ 925,294 $ 682,572 $ 758,101 $ 832,180 $ 816,622 $ 775,510 $ 656,762 Subscription and services-based revenue 449,371 447,522 346,275 296,235 281,415 279,801 251,383 218,857 Hardware revenue 24,363 27,294 19,322 20,675 22,267 21,766 22,260 18,212 Bitcoin revenue 1,756,225 1,633,764 875,456 306,098 177,567 148,285 125,085 65,528 Total net revenue 3,158,970 3,033,874 1,923,625 1,381,109 1,313,429 1,266,474 1,174,238 959,359 Cost of revenue: Transaction-based costs 535,283 522,680 388,106 465,779 519,241 519,312 490,349 409,069 Subscription and services-based costs 65,046 66,786 50,169 40,711 50,276 63,352 60,119 60,523 Hardware costs 35,994 45,220 28,315 34,372 40,504 35,672 33,268 26,941 Bitcoin costs 1,715,452 1,601,615 858,041 299,426 174,438 146,167 122,938 64,696 Amortization of acquired technology 3,505 3,118 2,231 2,320 1,921 1,934 1,719 1,376 Total cost of revenue 2,355,280 2,239,419 1,326,862 842,608 786,380 766,437 708,393 562,605 Gross profit 803,690 794,455 596,763 538,501 527,049 500,037 465,845 396,754 Operating expenses: Product development 253,448 226,567 206,825 194,986 173,284 168,771 174,201 154,350 Sales and marketing 328,576 348,463 238,096 194,535 185,231 149,467 156,421 133,713 General and administrative 159,420 153,902 136,386 129,495 118,164 115,980 100,508 101,598 Transaction and loan losses 15,986 15,198 37,603 108,883 32,132 32,722 34,264 27,841 Amortization of acquired customer assets 1,077 983 905 890 890 1,003 1,294 1,294 Total operating expenses 758,507 745,113 619,815 628,789 509,701 467,943 466,688 418,796 Operating income (loss) 45,183 49,342 (23,052) (90,288) 17,348 32,094 (843) (22,042) Gain on sale of asset group (373,445) Interest expense, net 17,988 14,980 14,769 9,206 6,060 5,632 5,143 4,681 Other expense (income), net (271,212) (784) (25,591) 5,862 (6,715) (5,541) 1,230 11,299 Income (loss) before income tax 298,407 35,146 (12,230) (105,356) 391,448 32,003 (7,216) (38,022) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 4,448 (1,369) (752) 535 508 2,606 (476) 129 Net income (loss) $ 293,959 $ 36,515 $ (11,478) $ (105,891) $ 390,940 $ 29,397 $ (6,740) $ (38,151) Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ 0.65 $ 0.08 $ (0.03) $ (0.24) $ 0.91 $ 0.07 $ (0.02) $ (0.09) Diluted $ 0.59 $ 0.07 $ (0.03) $ (0.24) $ 0.83 $ 0.06 $ (0.02) $ (0.09) Weighted-average shares used to compute net income (loss) per share: Basic 452,869 444,458 440,117 434,940 430,136 427,124 423,305 419,289 Diluted 502,237 488,069 440,117 434,940 485,394 466,099 423,305 419,289 67 Costs and expenses include share-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended, Dec. 31, 2020 Sep. 30, 2020 Jun. 30, 2020 Mar. 31, 2020 Dec. 31, 2019 Sep. 30, 2019 Jun. 30, 2019 Mar. 31, 2019 (in thousands) Share-Based Compensation (unaudited) Cost of revenue $ 97 $ 100 $ 95 $ 76 $ 67 $ 38 $ 29 $ 21 Product development 83,906 78,682 69,565 57,400 55,726 56,321 56,144 42,649 Sales and marketing 9,273 12,063 8,884 6,407 6,416 6,269 7,833 6,202 General and administrative 20,352 19,544 17,636 13,420 17,674 14,798 15,460 12,216 Total share-based compensation $ 113,628 $ 110,389 $ 96,180 $ 77,303 $ 79,883 $ 77,426 $ 79,466 $ 61,088 The following table sets forth the key operating metrics and non-GAAP financial measures we use to evaluate our business for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended, Dec. 31, 2020 Sep. 30, 2020 Jun. 30, 2020 Mar. 31, 2020 Dec. 31, 2019 Sep. 30, 2019 Jun. 30, 2019 Mar. 31, 2019 (in thousands, except for GPV and per share data) Key Operating Metrics and non-GAAP Financial Measures (unaudited) Gross Payment Volume (GPV) (in millions) $ 32,022 $ 31,729 $ 22,801 $ 25,743 $ 28,639 $ 28,228 $ 26,785 $ 22,587 Adjusted EBITDA $ 185,489 $ 181,320 $ 97,931 $ 9,331 $ 118,529 $ 131,323 $ 105,304 $ 61,697 Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share: Basic $ 0.37 $ 0.39 $ 0.20 $ (0.02) $ 0.25 $ 0.28 $ 0.23 $ 0.13 Diluted $ 0.32 $ 0.34 $ 0.18 $ (0.02) $ 0.23 $ 0.25 $ 0.21 $ 0.11 The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended, Dec. 31, 2020 Sep. 30, 2020 Jun. 30, 2020 Mar. 31, 2020 Dec. 31, 2019 Sep. 30, 2019 Jun. 30, 2019 Mar. 31, 2019 (in thousands) Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation (unaudited) Net income (loss) $ 293,959 $ 36,515 $ (11,478) $ (105,891) $ 390,940 $ 29,397 $ (6,740) $ (38,151) Share-based compensation expense 113,628 110,389 96,180 77,303 79,883 77,426 79,466 61,088 Depreciation and amortization 22,471 20,624 21,056 20,061 18,719 19,125 18,783 18,971 Interest expense, net 17,988 14,980 14,769 9,206 6,060 5,632 5,143 4,681 Other expense (income), net (271,212) (784) (25,591) 5,862 (6,715) (5,541) 1,230 11,299 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 4,448 (1,369) (752) 535 508 2,606 (476) 129 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 475 396 1,481 218 580 128 281 19 Gain on sale of asset group (373,445) Acquisition related and other costs 3,543 359 2,056 1,524 1,260 1,564 6,133 782 Acquired deferred revenue adjustment 257 281 302 657 928 1,224 1,849 3,456 Acquired deferred costs adjustment (68) (71) (92) (144) (189) (238) (365) (577) Adjusted EBITDA $ 185,489 $ 181,320 $ 97,931 $ 9,331 $ 118,529 $ 131,323 $ 105,304 $ 61,697 68 The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended, Dec. 31, 2020 Sep. 30, 2020 Jun. 30, 2020 Mar. 31, 2020 Dec. 31, 2019 Sep. 30, 2019 Jun. 30, 2019 Mar. 31, 2019 (in thousands, except per share data) Adjusted Net Income Per Share: (unaudited) Net income (loss) $ 293,959 $ 36,515 $ (11,478) $ (105,891) $ 390,940 $ 29,397 $ (6,740) $ (38,151) Share-based compensation expense 113,628 110,389 96,180 77,303 79,883 77,426 79,466 61,088 Amortization of intangible assets 5,717 5,236 4,134 4,152 3,714 3,841 3,958 3,487 Amortization of debt discount and issuance costs 20,355 17,516 17,580 12,528 9,963 9,843 9,725 9,608 Loss (gain) on revaluation of equity investments (274,299) (20,998) (4,141) (2,462) 4,842 14,087 Loss on extinguishment of long-term debt 4,258 1,403 990 Loss (gain) on disposal of property and equipment 475 396 1,481 218 580 128 281 19 Gain on sale of asset group (373,445) Acquisition related and other costs 3,543 359 2,056 1,524 1,260 1,564 6,133 782 Acquired deferred revenue adjustment 257 281 302 657 928 1,224 1,849 3,456 Acquired deferred cost adjustment (68) (71) (92) (144) (189) (238) (365) (577) Adjusted Net Income (Loss) - basic $ 167,825 $ 172,024 $ 89,165 $ (8,663) $ 109,493 $ 120,723 $ 99,149 $ 53,799 Cash interest expense on convertible senior notes 1,596 1,544 1,565 1,277 1,277 1,277 1,277 Adjusted Net Income (Loss) - diluted $ 169,421 $ 173,568 $ 90,730 $ (8,663) $ 110,770 $ 122,000 $ 100,426 $ 55,076 Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share: Basic $ 0.37 $ 0.39 $ 0.20 $ (0.02) $ 0.25 $ 0.28 $ 0.23 $ 0.13 Diluted $ 0.32 $ 0.34 $ 0.18 $ (0.02) $ 0.23 $ 0.25 $ 0.21 $ 0.11 Weighted-average shares used to compute Adjusted Net Income (Loss) Per Share: Basic 452,869 444,458 440,117 434,940 430,136 427,124 423,305 419,289 Diluted 523,586 514,806 500,201 434,940 485,394 486,404 486,532 487,056 Quarterly Trends Transaction-based revenue is highly correlated with the level of GPV generated by sellers using our managed payments services. The increase in transaction-based revenue in 2020 was primarily attributable to and affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent shelter in place orders as discussed in more detail under results of operations. Subscription and services-based revenue generally demonstrates less seasonality than transaction-based revenue. The sequential increases were primarily driven by continued growth of Cash App which has benefited from increased engagement by customers as well as an increase from government stimulus funds deposited into customer accounts. On October 31, 2019, we completed the sale of the Caviar business, and accordingly we will no longer recognize any revenue from Caviar. Bitcoin revenue comprises the total sale amount we receive from bitcoin sales to customers and is recorded upon transfer of bitcoin to the customer's account. The sale amount generally includes a small margin added to the price we pay to purchase bitcoin and accordingly, the amount of bitcoin revenue will fluctuate depending on the volatility of market bitcoin prices and customer demand. We saw unprecedented growth in bitcoin revenues in the second and third quarter of 2020. Various factors impact customer demand and as such, the recent periods' performance may not be indicative of future quarters. Changes in product development expenses primarily reflect the timing of additions of engineering, product, and design personnel. To a lesser extent, they also reflect the timing of fees and supply costs related to maintenance and capacity 69 expansion at third-party data center facilities, development and tooling costs related to the design, testing, and shipping of our hardware products, and fees for software licenses, consulting, legal, and other services that are directly related to growing and maintaining our products and services. Changes in sales and marketing expenses reflect the variable nature of the timing and magnitude of paid marketing and customer acquisition initiatives across our advertising channels. Changes in sales and marketing expenses are also affected by the timing of additions of direct sales, account management, local, product and paid marketing, retail and e-commerce, partnerships, and communications personnel. Additionally, sales and marketing expenses are affected by the timing and magnitude of processing costs and transaction losses related to our Cash App peer-to-peer transfer service and Cash Card issuance costs. We offer the Cash Card and certain peer-to-peer services to our Cash App customers for free and we consider these to be marketing tools intended to encourage the usage of Cash App. We saw a substantial increase in sales and marketing expenses in the second and third quarter of 2020 associated with the increased volume of activity with our Cash App peer-to-peer service. Changes in general and administrative expenses primarily reflect the timing of additions of finance, legal, risk operations, human resources, and administrative personnel, as well as the timing of non income tax payments and reserves. They also reflect the timing of costs related to support personnel and systems, as well as fees paid for professional services, including legal and financial services. We recorded incremental provisions for transaction and loan losses in the first quarter of 2020 for our Seller business due to the expected impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the related subsequent shelter-in-place orders that resulted in a significant slowdown in the business of many sellers. During the second quarter of 2020, we revised and lowered our estimate of transaction loss reserves recorded in the first quarter of 2020 due to better than expected realized transaction losses. Provision for transaction losses declined during the third quarter as a result of better than expected performance, and as we released previously established risk loss provisions for the first and second quarter of 2020. During the fourth quarter of 2020, we revised and lowered our estimate of transaction loss reserves recorded in the second and third quarter of 2020 due to better than expected realized transaction losses. For loan losses, during the second quarter of 2020, we noted improvements in our sellers as some states started reopening and relaxing the shelter-in place measures and have accordingly adjusted the provisions for loan losses. Additionally, other than PPP loans, we suspended offers for new loans in the second quarter of 2020 which contributed to the decrease in loan losses. During the third and fourth quarters of 2020, we continued to experience loan losses in line with the second quarter provisions for loan losses. Provisions for transaction losses increased approximately 106% in the fourth quarter of 2020, compared to the fourth quarter of 2019. Gain on sale of asset group represents the net gain we made on the sale of the Caviar business in the fourth quarter of 2019. Changes in interest expense (income), net are driven by interest expense related to our convertible notes and interest income earned on our investment in marketable debt securities. Changes in other expense (income), net was primarily due to gains or losses arising from revaluation of our publicly traded and privately held equity investments. In the fourth quarter of 2020, we recorded a gain from the revaluation of our DoorDash investment as a result of its initial public offering in December 2020, as well as a gain in the fourth quarter of 2020 due to the revaluation of our investment in a privately held entity. In 2019, we recorded losses in the mark to market revaluation of our Eventbrite investment. In December 2019, the Company sold the investment in Eventbrite and as a result will not be impacted by mark to market revaluations related to this investment in future periods. To a lesser extent this balance is also impacted by foreign exchange gains or losses. 70 Liquidity and Capital Resources The uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic continues both in the United States and globally, with the duration and severity of the pandemic and the overall impact on consumer demand and overall economy still unknown. We are unable to forecast the full impact on our business; however, this represents a known area of uncertainty and we continue to expect the COVID-19 pandemic and its related economic disruption may have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We continue to evaluate our investment plans and discretionary expenditures and will make adjustments accordingly. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $4.9 billion in available funds, including undrawn amounts available under our revolving credit facility, as described in Note 13, Indebtedness , of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We intend to continue focusing on our long-term business initiatives and believe that our available funds are sufficient to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. We are carefully monitoring and managing our cash position in light of ongoing conditions and levels of operations. The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and investments in marketable debt securities (in thousands): Liquidity Sources Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,158,058 $ 1,047,118 Short-term restricted cash 30,279 38,873 Long-term restricted cash 13,526 12,715 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 3,201,863 1,098,706 Investments in short-term debt securities 695,112 492,456 Investments in long-term debt securities 463,950 537,303 Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments in marketable debt securities $ 4,360,925 $ 2,128,465 Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, and investments in marketable debt securities. As of December 31, 2020, we had $4.4 billion of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments in marketable debt securities, which were held primarily in cash deposits, money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, commercial paper, and corporate bonds. We consider all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. Our investments in marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale. From time to time, we have raised capital by issuing equity, equity-linked, or debt securities such as our convertible senior notes. As of December 31, 2020, we held $3.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes, comprised of $8.5 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding convertible senior notes that mature on March 1, 2022 (2022 Notes), $862.5 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes that mature on May 15, 2023 (2023 Notes), $1.0 billion in aggregate amount of convertible senior notes that mature on March 1, 2025 (2025 Notes), and $575.0 million and $575.0 million in aggregate amount of convertible senior notes that mature on May 1, 2026, and November 1, 2027, respectively (2026 and 2027 Notes). The 2022 Notes bear interest at a rate of 0.375% payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year, while the 2023 Notes bear interest at a rate of 0.50% payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year, and the 2025 Notes bear interest at a rate of 0.125% payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The 2026 Notes bear no interest, whereas, the 2027 notes bear interest at a rate of 0.25% payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year. These notes can be converted or repurchased prior to maturity if certain conditions are met. We purchased $50 million in bitcoin in October 2020 and another $170 million in February 2021, as we believe cryptocurrency is an instrument of economic empowerment that aligns with our corporate purpose. We expect to hold these investments for the long term but will continue to reassess our investment in bitcoin relative to our balance sheet. As bitcoin is considered an indefinite lived intangible asset, under the accounting policy for such assets we will be required to recognize 71 any decreases in market prices below cost as an impairment charge, with any mark up in value prohibited if the market price of bitcoin subsequently increases. In September 2020, we announced our intent to invest $100 million in supporting underserved communities, particularly, racial and ethnic minority groups who have been disproportionately affected by COVID-19. This initiative further deepens our commitment toward economic empowerment to help broaden such communities' access to financial services. In June 2020, we entered into the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco ("First PPPLF Agreement") to secure additional credit collateralized by PPP loans. As of December 31, 2020, $464.1 million of PPPLF advances were outstanding and collateralized by the same value of PPP loans. The advances under this facility are repayable if the associated PPP loans are forgiven, repaid by a customer or settled by the government guarantee. As of February 23, 2021, approximately $376.3 million of PPPLF advances were outstanding and collateralized by the same value of the PPP loans. On January 29, 2021, we entered into a Second PPPLF Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco to secure additional credit, collateralized by loans from the second round of the PPP program, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1.0 billion under both PPPLF Agreements. In May 2020, we entered into a new revolving credit agreement with certain lenders, which provides a $500 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "2020 Credit Facility") maturing in May 2023. Loans under the 2020 Credit Facility bear interest at our option of (i) a base rate based on the highest of the prime rate, the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, and the adjusted LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, in each case, plus a margin ranging from 0.25% to 0.75% or (ii) an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a margin ranging from 1.25% to 1.75%. The margin is determined based on our total net leverage ratio, as defined in the agreement. We are obligated to pay other customary fees for a credit facility of this size and type including an unused commitment fee of 0.15%. To date, no funds have been drawn and no letters of credit have been issued under the 2020 Credit Facility. See Note 13, Indebtedness , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on these transactions. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, investment in marketable debt securities, and availability under our line of credit will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs, including any expenditures related to strategic transactions and investment commitments that we may from time to time enter into, and planned capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. From time to time, we may seek to raise additional capital through equity, equity-linked, and debt financing arrangements. We cannot provide assurance that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Short-term restricted cash of $30.3 million as of December 31, 2020 reflects pledged cash deposited into savings accounts at the financial institutions that process our sellers' payments transactions and as collateral pursuant to an agreement with the originating bank for the Company's Square Capital loan product. We use the restricted cash to secure letters of credit with these financial institutions to provide collateral for liabilities arising from cash flow timing differences in the processing of these payments. We have recorded this amount as a current asset on our consolidated balance sheets given the short-term nature of these cash flow timing differences and that there is no minimum time frame during which the cash must remain restricted. Additionally, this balance includes certain amounts held as collateral pursuant to multi-year lease agreements, discussed in the paragraph below, which we expect to become unrestricted within the next year. Long-term restricted cash of $13.5 million as of December 31, 2020 is primarily related to cash deposited into money market funds that is used as collateral pursuant to multi-year lease agreements. The Company has recorded this amount as a non-current asset on the consolidated balance sheets as the lease terms extend beyond one year. We experience significant day-to-day fluctuations in our cash and cash equivalents, due to fluctuations in settlements receivable, and customers payable, and hence working capital. These fluctuations are primarily due to: Timing of period end. For periods that end on a weekend or a bank holiday, our cash and cash equivalents, settlements receivable, and customers payable balances typically will be higher than for periods ending on a weekday, as we settle to our sellers for payment processing activity on business days; and 72 Fluctuations in daily GPV. When daily GPV increases, our cash and cash equivalents, settlements receivable, and customers payable amounts increase. Typically our settlements receivable, and customers payable balances at period end represent one to four days of receivables and disbursements to be made in the subsequent period. Customers payable, excluding amounts attributable to Cash App stored funds, and settlements receivable balances typically move in tandem, as pay-out and pay-in largely occur on the same business day. However, customers payable balances will be greater in amount than settlements receivable balances due to the fact that a subset of funds are held due to unlinked bank accounts, risk holds, and chargebacks. Also, customer funds obligations, which are included in customers payable, may cause customers payable to trend differently than settlements receivable. Holidays and day-of-week may also cause significant volatility in daily GPV amounts. Cash Flow Activities The following table summarizes our cash flow activities (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 381,603 $ 465,699 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities: (606,636) 95,193 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 2,315,195 (98,874) Effect of foreign exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents 12,995 3,841 Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 2,103,157 $ 465,859 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities consisted of net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items including gain or loss on revaluation of equity investments, depreciation and amortization, non-cash interest and other expense, share-based compensation expense, transaction and loan losses, deferred income taxes, non-cash lease expense, gain on sale of asset group, as well as the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities, including working capital. For the year ended December 31, 2020, cash provided by operating activities was $381.6 million, primarily due to a net income of $213.1 million, offset by PPP loans facilitated, less loans sold, of $420.8 million, adjusted for the add back of non-cash expenses of $509.4 million consisting primarily of share-based compensation, transaction and loan losses, depreciation and amortization, and non-cash interest and other expenses. Whereas the increase in transaction and loan losses was largely caused by estimated losses attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic, the increase in other non-cash expenses was primarily due to the growth and expansion of our business activities. Additionally, the cash generated from operating activities increased due to a net inflow from changes in other assets and liabilities of $79.9 million due to timing. For the year ended December 31, 2019, cash provided by operating activities was $465.7 million primarily due to a net income of $375.4 million, adjusted for the add back of non-cash expenses of $574.5 million consisting primarily of share-based compensation, transaction and loan losses, depreciation and amortization, and non-cash interest and other expenses largely driven by growth and expansion of our business activities, offset in part by the gain on sale of Caviar of $373.4 million in the fourth quarter. The cash generated from operating activities was negatively affected by a net outflow from changes in other assets and liabilities of $110.8 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities primarily relate to capital expenditures to support our growth, investments in marketable debt securities, investment in privately held entity, and business acquisitions. For the year ended December 31, 2020, cash used in investing activities was $606.6 million, primarily due to the net investments of marketable securities including investments from customer funds of $337.7 million. Additional uses of cash were as a result of the purchase of property and equipment of $138.4 million, business acquisitions, net of cash acquired of 73 $79.2 million and purchases of other investments of $51.3 million. For the year ended December 31, 2019, cash provided by investing activities was $95.2 million, primarily as a result of the net cash proceeds from sale of asset group of $309.3 million related to the sale of the Caviar business and proceeds from sale of equity investment in Eventbrite of $33.0 million, offset in part by the net investments of marketable securities including investments from customer funds of $149.0 million. Additional uses of cash in investing activities were a result of purchases of property and equipment of $62.5 million, business combinations, net of cash acquired of $20.4 million, and other investments of $15.3 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the year ended December 31, 2020, cash provided by financing activities was $2.3 billion, primarily as a result of $1.08 billion in net proceeds from the 2026 and 2027 Note offering, $936.5 million in net proceeds from the 2025 Note offering, proceeds from the First PPPLF Agreement advances of $464.1 million, proceeds from issuances of common stock from the exercise of options and purchases under our employee share purchase plan of $162.0 million, offset by payments for employee tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units of $314.0 million. For the year ended December 31, 2019, cash used in financing activities was $98.9 million, primarily as a result of payments for employee tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units of $212.3 million offset in part by proceeds from issuances of common stock from the exercise of options and purchases under the employee stock purchase plan, net of $118.5 million. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of convertible senior notes, liquidity facility, operating leases, capital leases, and purchase commitments. The following table summarizes our commitments to settle contractual obligations in cash as of December 31, 2020. Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years More than 5 years (in thousands) Convertible senior notes, including interest $ 3,044,046 $ 7,032 $ 880,733 $ 1,004,125 $ 1,152,156 PPP Liquidity Facility 464,094 464,094 Operating leases 566,328 70,774 151,202 103,525 240,827 Finance leases Purchase commitments 40,695 40,695 Total $ 4,115,163 $ 582,595 $ 1,031,935 $ 1,107,650 $ 1,392,983 Convertible Senior Notes On November 13, 2020, we issued $1.15 billion in aggregate principal amount of 2026 and 2027 Notes that mature on May 1, 2026 and November 1, 2027, respectively, unless earlier converted or repurchased. The 2026 Notes bear no interest, whereas, the 2027 Notes bear interest at a rate of 0.25% payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year. See Note 13, Indebtedness , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on this transaction. On March 5, 2020, we issued $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of 2025 Notes that mature on March 1, 2025, unless earlier converted or repurchased, and bear interest at a rate of 0.1250% payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. See Note 13, Indebtedness , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on this transaction. On May 25, 2018, we issued $862.5 million in aggregate principal amount of 2023 Notes that mature on May 15, 2023, unless earlier converted or repurchased, and bear interest at a rate of 0.50% payable semi-annually on May 15 and 74 November 15 of each year. See Note 13, Indebtedness , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on this transaction. On March 6, 2017, we issued $440.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Notes that mature on March 1, 2022, unless earlier converted or repurchased, and bear interest at a rate of 0.375% payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. See Note 13, Indebtedness , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on this transaction. Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility On June 2, 2020, we entered into the First PPPLF Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco to secure additional credit in an aggregate principal amount of up to $500.0 million. Borrowings under the facility accrue interest at a rate of 0.35% and must be collateralized with loans originated under the PPP. On January 29, 2021, we entered into a second PPPLF agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (Second PPPLF Agreement and together with the First PPPLF Agreement, PPPLF Agreements) to secure additional credit, collateralized by loans from the second round of the PPP program, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1.0 billion under both PPPLF Agreements. The maturity date of any PPPLF advances will be the maturity date of the PPP loan pledged to secure the advance, and will be accelerated upon the occurrence of certain events of default. Although loans originated under the PPP have a stated maturity of between two and five years from origination, some of the loans may be forgiven 24 weeks after disbursement if they meet certain specified criteria. The PPPLF advances are also repayable if the underlying PPP loan is repaid by the customer. As of December 31, 2020, $464.1 million of PPPLF advances were outstanding. As of February 23, 2021, approximately $376.3 million of PPPLF advances were outstanding and collateralized by the same value of the PPP loans. See Note 13, Indebtedness , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on this transaction. Lease Commitments We have entered into various non-cancelable operating leases for certain offices with contractual lease periods expiring between 2021 and 2034. We recognized total rental expenses under operating leases of $75.2 million, $32.5 million, and $23.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. Purchase commitments We had non-cancelable purchase obligations to hardware suppliers for $40.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements during the periods presented. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. GAAP requires us to make certain estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience, anticipated future trends, and other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Because these accounting policies require significant judgment, our actual results may differ materially from our estimates. We believe accounting policies and the assumptions and estimates associated with transaction and loan losses, especially due to uncertainties associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, and revenue recognition have the greatest potential effect on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. Transaction Losses We are exposed to transaction losses due to chargebacks as a result of fraud or uncollectibility of transaction payments. We estimate accrued transaction losses based on available data as of the reporting date, including expectations of future chargebacks, and historical trends related to loss rates that is continuously adjusted for new information and incorporates, where applicable, reasonable and supportable forecasts about future expectations. During the first and second 75 quarters of 2020, the Company revised its estimates to reflect expected increased chargebacks from non-delivery of goods and services as well as increased failure rates of its sellers due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the third and fourth quarters of 2020, the Company continued to further revise its estimates for transaction losses and as a result of better than expected performance, the Company released previously established risk loss provisions for the first three quarters of 2020 amounting to $82.4 million. Convertible Notes We account for the convertible notes as separate debt and equity components. The carrying amount of the debt component is calculated by measuring the fair value of a similar debt that does not have an associated convertible feature. The carrying amount of the equity component representing the conversion option is calculated by deducting the fair value of the debt component from the principal amount of the convertible notes as a whole. We estimated the fair value of the debt and equity components using a convertible bond model, which includes subjective assumptions such as the expected term and expected volatility. These assumptions involve inherent uncertainties and management judgement. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Recent Accounting Pronouncements described in Note 1 of the Notes to our consolidated financial statements.