Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, including Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors," as well as our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes and the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements " in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The information on our websites is not a part of this Quarterly Report and is not incorporated herein by reference. We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period operating and financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Overview Our mission is to make it easier for everyone to experience the world. We connect consumers who wish to make travel reservations with travel service providers around the world through our online platforms. Consumers can also use our meta-search services to easily compare travel reservation information from hundreds of online travel platforms at once. We also offer various other services to consumers and partners, such as travel-related insurance products and restaurant management services to restaurants. We offer these services through six primary consumer-facing brands: Booking.com, Priceline, agoda, Rentalcars.com, KAYAK, and OpenTable. We continue to increase the collaboration, cooperation, and interdependency among our brands to provide consumers with the most comprehensive services. The results of our business outside of the U.S. consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda, and Rentalcars.com in their entirety and the parts of the KAYAK and OpenTable businesses located outside of the U.S. This classification is independent of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while using our services, or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant. For example, a reservation made through Booking.com (which is domiciled in the Netherlands) at a hotel in New York by a consumer in the U.S. is part of the results of our businesses outside of the U.S. In 2021, the revenues from our businesses outside of the U.S. (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com through facilitating accommodation reservations) represented approximately 87% of our consolidated revenues. See Note 2 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for more geographic information. We derive substantially all of our revenues from enabling consumers to make travel service reservations. We also earn revenues from advertising services, restaurant reservations and restaurant management services, and various other services, such as travel-related insurance revenues. Trends The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting implementation of travel restrictions by governments around the world resulted in a significant decline in travel activities and consumer demand for related services in 2020 in particular. Accommodation room nights, which include the impact of cancellations, declined rapidly as the COVID-19 pandemic spread in the first quarter of 2020 and the beginning of the second quarter of 2020. Since the beginning of the second quarter of 2020 and through 2021, accommodation room night declines versus the comparable period in 2019 have generally improved as government-imposed travel restrictions have eased, vaccines and other medical interventions have become more widespread, and consumer demand for travel has started to rebound. However, there have been periods of worsening trends due to spikes in COVID-19 cases and newly implemented travel restrictions, primarily related to new variants. In the first quarter of 2022, many countries in Europe and some countries in Asia relaxed COVID-19 related travel restrictions, which we believe positively impacted room night trends in those regions in the quarter. 27 On February 23, 2022, the news broke that Russia had invaded Ukraine, and we saw an immediate negative impact on our room night trends, primarily in Europe. Despite this impact, room nights for the full month of February 2022 came in about in line with 2019 levels, which was our strongest month since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. In early March, we suspended the booking of travel services in Russia and Belarus. This led to the loss of new bookings as well as significantly elevated levels of cancellations of reservations from these countries. Additionally, we saw some slowdown in booking trends across Europe as travelers took in the news of the invasion. For the week ended March 6, 2022, room night trends softened to about 10% lower versus 2019 levels driven by Eastern Europe, primarily Russia, and to a lesser extent by Western Europe, which remained modestly above 2019 levels. After the first week of March, we saw our room night trends improve compared to the week ended March 6, 2022, driven mainly by Europe, resulting in room nights being down about 4% in March 2022 compared to March 2019. For the first quarter of 2022, compared to the first quarter of 2019, room nights were down 9%, an improvement from the 21% room night decline in the fourth quarter of 2021, compared to the fourth quarter of 2019. Excluding room nights from bookers in Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus in both the 2022 and comparable 2019 periods, our overall room nights were up about 2% in March and down about 6% for the full first quarter. The comparison of room nights in 2021 and 2022 to the comparable period in 2019 avoids the distortion created from comparing to a prior year period that was significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Quarterly Room Nights and Change versus 2019 We have observed an improvement in cancellation rates since the high in April 2020, though we have seen periods of elevated cancellation rates typically coinciding with significant increases in COVID-19 cases and newly imposed travel restrictions. The cancellation rate in the first quarter of 2022 improved compared to the first quarter of 2021 and was about in line with the first quarter of 2019. In the first quarter of 2022, a higher share of our room nights was booked with flexible cancellation policies, as compared to the first quarters of 2019 and 2021, which could result in higher than normal cancellation rates in future quarters. Increases in cancellation rates can negatively impact our marketing efficiency and we may see increased customer service costs with increases in cancellation rates. Since the second quarter of 2020, government-imposed travel restrictions have generally limited international travel (travelers booking a stay at a property located outside their own country) more than domestic travel (travelers booking a stay within their own country). We believe the easing of government-imposed travel restrictions in many countries throughout the world in the first quarter of 2022 helped drive an increase in the share of room nights booked for international travel versus the first quarter of 2021, however, the share remained below 2019 levels. We saw an increase in the share of room nights booked on a mobile device and mobile app bookings in the first quarter of 2022 compared to the first quarter of 2019. We saw a decrease in the share of room nights booked on a mobile device in the first quarter of 2022 compared to the first quarter of 2021, due to a year-over-year expansion of the booking window and changes in regional mix. The share of mobile app bookings in the first quarter of 2022 was about the same as the first quarter of 2021. We continue to see favorable repeat direct booking behavior from consumers in our apps which allow us more opportunities to engage directly with consumers. The revenue earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay, have lower accommodation average daily rates ("ADRs"), and are not made as far in advance. Our global ADRs increased significantly in the first quarter of 2022 as compared to the first quarter of 2019, due primarily to higher ADRs in Europe and North America as compared to the first quarter of 2019, driven by rate increases across many destination types with notable strength in leisure destinations. In addition, our global ADRs in the first quarter of 2022, as compared to the first quarter of 2019, benefited from changes in the geographical mix of our business driven primarily by stronger room night performance in North America, which is a high ADR region, and weaker room night performance in Asia, which is a low ADR region. Our global ADRs also increased in the first quarter of 2022 as compared to the first quarter of 2021. Prior to the COVID-19 outbreak, we observed a trend of declining constant-currency accommodation ADRs partially 28 driven by the negative impact of the changing geographical mix of our business (e.g., lower ADR regions like Asia were generally growing faster than higher ADR regions like Western Europe and North America) as well as pricing pressures within local markets from time to time. Those declining ADR trends we experienced prior to the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in and could in the future result in our gross bookings growing less than our room nights. As the travel market continues to recover from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and with some regions experiencing general inflation in prices, we have seen travel industry ADRs generally increasing from the pandemic lows in 2020 and as a result our ADRs have also increased. While our ADRs have continued to increase in the first quarter of 2022 as compared to the first quarter of 2019, it remains highly uncertain what the trend in industry ADRs will look like going forward. We are constantly innovating to grow our business by, among other things, providing a best-in-class user experience with intuitive, easy-to-use online platforms to ensure that we are meeting the needs of online consumers while aiming to exceed their expectations. As part of these ongoing efforts, we have a long-term strategy to build a more integrated offering of multiple elements of travel connected by a payment platform, which we refer to as the "Connected Trip," and we expect these efforts to increase room night growth and revenue growth over time. We may see a negative impact on our operating margins in the near term as we incur the expenses associated with Connected Trip-related investments. Further, to the extent our non-accommodation services (e.g., airline ticket reservation services) have lower margins and increase as a percentage of our total business, our operating margins may be negatively affected. As part of our strategy to provide more payment options to consumers and travel service providers, increase the number and variety of accommodations available on Booking.com, and enable our long-term Connected Trip strategy, Booking.com is increasingly processing transactions on a merchant basis, where it facilitates payments from travelers for the services provided. This allows Booking.com to process transactions for travel service providers and to increase its ability to offer secure and flexible transaction terms to consumers, such as the form and timing of payment. We believe that adding these types of service offerings will benefit consumers and travel service providers, as well as our gross bookings, room night, and earnings growth rates. However, this results in additional expenses for personnel, payment processing, chargebacks (including those related to fraud), and other expenses related to these transactions, which are recorded in "Personnel" and "Sales and other expenses" in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, as well as associated incremental revenues (e.g., credit card rebates), which are recorded in "Merchant revenues." To the extent more of our business is generated on a merchant basis, we incur a greater level of these merchant-related expenses, which negatively impacts our operating margins despite increases in associated incremental revenues. We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through marketing and promotional campaigns. Our marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature and are comprised of performance marketing and brand marketing expenses, increased significantly in 2021 from 2020 as a result of the improving demand environment and our own efforts to invest in marketing, but remained below 2019 levels. Total marketing expenses in the first quarter of 2022 were $1.1 billion, 149% above the first quarter of 2021, but 4% below the first quarter of 2019. Our performance marketing expense, which represents a substantial majority of our marketing expense, is primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services, and affiliate marketing to generate traffic to our platforms. Our brand marketing expense is primarily related to costs associated with producing and airing television advertising, online video advertising (for example, on YouTube and Facebook), online display advertising, and other brand marketing. Marketing efficiency, expressed as marketing expense as a percentage of gross bookings, and performance marketing returns on investment ("ROIs") are impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and are in some cases outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign currency exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers, and the timing and effectiveness of our brand marketing campaigns. Marketing efficiency can also be impacted by the extent to which consumers come directly to our platforms for bookings. In the first quarter of 2022, the share of room nights booked by consumers coming directly to our platforms increased as compared to the first quarters of 2021 and 2019, which benefits marketing efficiency. In recent years, we observed periods of stable or increasing ROIs. In the first quarter of 2022, ROIs increased versus the first quarter of 2019, but were down compared to the first quarter of 2021. We expect volatility in our ROIs as the pandemic continues to affect travel, and that ROIs could be negatively impacted in the future by increased levels of competition and other factors. When evaluating our performance marketing spend, we typically consider several factors for each channel, such as the customer experience on the advertising platform, the incremental traffic we receive, and the anticipated repeat rate from a particular platform. Historically, our growth has primarily been generated by the worldwide accommodation reservation business of our most significant brand, Booking.com, due in part to the availability of a large number of properties through Booking.com. Booking.com included over 2.4 million properties on its website at March 31, 2022, consisting of over 400,000 hotels, motels, 29 and resorts and approximately 2.0 million alternative accommodation properties (including homes, apartments, and other unique places to stay), all of which were above the number of properties on its website at March 31, 2021. The share of Booking.coms room nights booked for alternative accommodation properties in the first quarter of 2022 was about 31%, up slightly from the first quarters of 2019 and 2021. Prior to the pandemic, we observed an overall longer-term trend of an increasing share of room nights booked for alternative accommodation properties as consumer demand for these types of properties has grown, and as we have increased the number and variety of alternative accommodation properties available to consumers on Booking.com. We may experience lower profit margins due to certain additional costs, such as increased customer service costs, related to offering alternative accommodations on our platforms. As our alternative accommodation business has grown, these different characteristics have negatively impacted our profit margins and this trend may continue. Although we believe that providing an extensive collection of properties, excellent customer service, and an intuitive, easy-to-use consumer experience are important factors influencing a consumer's decision to make a reservation, for many consumers, particularly in certain markets, the price of the travel service is the primary factor determining whether a consumer will book a reservation. Discounting and couponing coupled with a high degree of consumer shopping behavior is particularly common in Asian markets. In some cases, our competitors are willing to make little or no profit on a transaction, or offer travel services at a loss, in order to gain market share. As a result, it is increasingly important to offer travel services, such as accommodation reservations, at a competitive price, whether through discounts, coupons, closed-user group rates or loyalty programs, increased flexibility in cancellation policies, or otherwise. These initiatives have resulted and in the future may result in lower ADRs and lower revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Many taxing authorities are increasingly focused on ways to increase tax revenues and have targeted large multinational technology companies in these efforts. As a result, many countries and some U.S. states have implemented or are considering the adoption of a digital services tax or similar tax that imposes a tax on revenue earned from digital advertisements or the use of online platforms, even when there is no physical presence in the jurisdiction. Currently, rates for this tax range from 1.5% to 10% of revenue deemed generated in the jurisdiction. The digital services taxes currently in effect, which we record in "General and administrative" expense in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations, have negatively impacted our results of operations. While the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has been working on multinational tax changes that could require all member parties to remove all digital services taxes, the timing and details are not yet known. Many national governments have conducted or are conducting investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. Some countries have adopted or proposed legislation that could also affect business practices within the online travel industry. For example, France, Italy, Belgium, and Austria have passed legislation prohibiting parity contract clauses in their entirety. Also, a number of governments are investigating or conducting information-gathering exercises with respect to compliance by online travel companies ("OTCs") with consumer protection laws, including practices related to the display of search results and search ranking algorithms, claims regarding discounts, disclosure of charges and availability, and similar messaging. In March 2022, the European Parliament and the European Council reached a political agreement toward finalizing the proposed Digital Markets Act which, together with the Digital Services Act, is expected to give regulators more instruments to investigate digital businesses and impose new rules on certain digital platforms determined to be "gatekeepers." If regulators were to determine that we are a gatekeeper under the legislation, we could be subject to additional rules and regulations not applicable to all our competitors and our business could be harmed. For more information on these matters and their potential effects on our business, see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. In general, increased regulatory focus on online businesses, including online travel businesses like ours, could result in increased compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our businesses outside of the U.S. represent a substantial majority of our financial results, but because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates as the financial results and the financial condition of our businesses outside of the U.S. are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. As a result, both the absolute amounts of and percentage changes in our foreign-currency-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate changes. For example, total revenues from our businesses outside of the U.S. increased by 135% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, but without the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, increased year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately 147%. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins have not been significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. We designate certain portions of the aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated debt as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of the net investment in certain Euro 30 functional currency subsidiaries. Foreign currency transaction gains or losses on the Euro-denominated debt that is not designated as a hedging instrument for accounting purposes are recognized in "Other income (expense), net" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 9 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Such foreign currency transaction gains or losses are dependent on the amount of net assets of the Euro functional currency subsidiaries, the amount of the Euro-denominated debt that is designated as a hedge, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our transactional balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. We will continue to evaluate the use of derivative instruments in the future. See Note 6 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our derivative contracts. Outlook In April 2022, we saw room nights grow about 10% relative to April 2019, driven by improving room night trends in all our regions, but primarily in Europe. Given the uncertainty related to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, as well as the COVID-19 pandemic, we cannot accurately predict the number of room nights that will be booked in the second quarter of 2022. Following from the above, for the second quarter of 2022 we currently expect: the change in gross bookings relative to the second quarter of 2019 will be about 20 percentage points better than the change in room nights relative to the same period primarily due to an increase in accommodation ADRs; revenues as a percentage of gross bookings will be lower than it was in the second quarter of 2019; and we will have an operating profit in the second quarter of 2022. Seasonality and Other Timing Factors Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, our gross bookings were generally similar in the first three quarters of the year and higher than in the fourth quarter. We generally recognize our marketing activities as the expense is incurred, which is typically in the quarter when the gross bookings for the associated reservations are recognized. However, we would generally recognize revenue from these bookings when the travel begins (at "check-in"), and accommodation check-ins in Europe and North America are generally highest in the third quarter during those regions peak summer travel season and lowest in the first quarter. As a result of this timing difference between when we record marketing expense and when we generally recognize associated revenue, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the third quarter and our lowest level of profitability in the first quarter. In addition to the typical seasonality effects on our business, our quarterly results and quarterly year-over-year growth rates can be impacted by: The length of the booking window (the average time between the booking of a travel reservation and when the travel begins), which impacts the relationship between our gross bookings (recognized at the time of booking) and our revenues (recognized at the time of check-in); The level of acceleration or deceleration in the gross bookings growth rate. For example, our operating margins are typically negatively impacted in the near term from gross bookings and related variable marketing expense growth acceleration, as revenue growth is typically less impacted by accelerating gross bookings growth in the near term. Any such acceleration would positively impact revenue growth in subsequent periods as a portion of the revenue recognized from such gross bookings will occur in future quarters. Conversely, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit; and The date on which certain holidays (e.g., Easter and Ramadan) fall. The COVID-19 pandemic impacted the booking window and seasonality of our business in 2020, 2021, and in the first quarter of 2022. For example, in the first quarter of 2022 we saw a shorter booking window than we saw in the first quarter of 2019, as an increased percentage of bookings were made for travel that was to occur close to the time of booking. However, in the first quarter of 2022 we saw the booking window expand compared to the first quarter of 2021. It is difficult to accurately predict travel patterns given the COVID-19 pandemic, and we may not experience typical seasonality effects on our business throughout the duration of the pandemic, and potentially for some time thereafter. As the travel market recovers from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect to see periods of gross bookings growth rate acceleration, which will likely result in periods where our operating margins are negatively impacted due to the timing difference of when marketing expense is recorded and when revenue is recognized. 31 Other Factors We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel-related services. Factors beyond our control, such as terrorist attacks, extreme weather or natural disasters, travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as COVID-19, wars and regional hostilities, travel-related accidents, or increased focus on the environmental impact of travel, can disrupt travel, limit the ability or willingness of travelers to visit certain locations, or otherwise result in declines in travel demand, negatively affecting our business and results of operations. The extent of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and growth prospects, are highly uncertain and will ultimately depend on future developments. While we have seen a recovery in travel demand in most parts of the world, we continue to expect that our business could be adversely impacted by surges of COVID-19 case counts, including those driven by variants of COVID-19, as well as any government-imposed travel restrictions in reaction to COVID-19 outbreaks, which could remain a risk for an extended period of time. Over the long term, we intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology, and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. In recent years, we have experienced pressure on operating margins as we invested in initiatives to drive future growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, including exploring strategic alternatives such as acquisitions. The competition for technology talent in our industry has intensified, including among established technology companies, startups, and companies transitioning to digital. The competition for talent is exacerbated by an increased willingness of certain companies to offer flexible and remote working policies, which expands the pool of candidates from which our competitors may attract talent. This could continue in the future due to an actual or perceived slower pace of recovery of the travel industry as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic than other industries and other factors beyond our control. As a result of the highly competitive labor market and inflationary pressure on compensation, our personnel expenses to attract and retain key talent are increasing, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Critical Accounting Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"). Certain of our accounting estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often due to the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. We use our judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates and we evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. Estimates are based on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For a complete discussion of our critical accounting estimates, see the "Critical Accounting Estimates" section of the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for details, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. 32 Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period operating and financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of room nights, rental car days, and airline tickets capture the volume of units booked through our OTC brands by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked through our OTC brands by our customers, net of cancellations, and is widely used in the travel business. Our non-OTC brands (KAYAK and OpenTable) have different business metrics from those of our OTC brands, so search queries through KAYAK and restaurant reservations through OpenTable do not contribute to our gross bookings. Room nights, rental car days, and airline tickets reserved through our services for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2022 2021 Room nights 198 99 99.7 % Rental car days 15 10 53.0 % Airline tickets 5 3 69.1 % Room nights, rental car days, and airline tickets reserved through our services increased significantly for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, due primarily to the continued improvement in travel demand trends as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has lessened in the first quarter of 2022 versus the first quarter of 2021. The majority of the year-over-year increase in airline tickets for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was driven by strong growth at Booking.com, due to the continued expansion of Booking.coms flight platform. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of room nights, rental car days, and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant categories for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2022 2021 Agency gross bookings $ 16,286 $ 8,704 87.1 % Merchant gross bookings 11,007 3,232 240.6 % Total gross bookings $ 27,293 $ 11,935 128.7 % Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided, while merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we facilitate payments. Agency and merchant gross bookings increased for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 due primarily to the continued improvement in travel demand trends. Merchant gross bookings increased more than agency gross bookings due to the expansion of merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com. The year-over-year increase in gross bookings during the first quarter of 2022 was due primarily to the increase in room nights and the increase in accommodation ADRs of approximately 22%, on a constant-currency basis, partially offset by 33 the negative impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of rental car days and airline tickets also increased due to higher unit growth, as well as price increases for both services. Revenues Online travel reservation services Substantially all of our revenues are generated by providing online travel reservation services, which facilitate online travel purchases between travel service providers and travelers. Revenues from online travel reservation services are classified into two categories: Agency. Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided. Agency revenues consist almost entirely of travel reservation commissions from our accommodation, rental car, and airline reservation services. Substantially all of our agency revenue is from Booking.com agency accommodation reservations. Merchant. Merchant revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided, generally at the time of booking. Merchant revenues are derived from transactions where travelers book accommodation, rental car, and airline reservations. Merchant revenues include: travel reservation commissions and transaction net revenues (i.e., the amount charged to travelers less the amount owed to travel service providers) in connection with our merchant reservation services; credit card processing rebates and customer processing fees; and ancillary fees, including travel-related insurance revenues. Advertising and other revenues Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from: revenues earned by KAYAK for (a) sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers and (b) advertising placements on its platforms; and revenues earned by OpenTable for (a) restaurant reservation services (fees paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees for restaurant management services. Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2022 2021 Agency revenues $ 1,450 $ 717 102.3 % Merchant revenues 1,050 373 181.5 % Advertising and other revenues 195 51 283.1 % Total revenues $ 2,695 $ 1,141 136.3 % Agency, merchant, and advertising and other revenues increased for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, due primarily to the continued improvement in travel demand trends as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has lessened in the first quarter of 2022 versus the first quarter of 2021. Merchant revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased more than agency revenues due to the expansion of merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com. Advertising and other revenues year-over-year growth benefited from fees for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service and subscription fees for restaurant management services, as the program that waived those fees ended in March 2021. Total revenues as a percentage of gross bookings were 9.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase from 9.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, driven by the year-on-year growth in advertising and other revenues which have no associated gross bookings. 34 Operating Expenses Marketing Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2022 2021 Marketing expenses $ 1,147 $ 461 148.8 % % of Total gross bookings 4.2 % 3.9 % % of Total revenues 42.5 % 40.4 % Marketing expenses consist primarily of the costs of: search engine keyword purchases; referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; affiliate programs; offline and online brand marketing; and other performance-based marketing and incentives. We adjust our marketing spend based on our growth and profitability objectives, as well as the travel demand and expected ROIs in our marketing channels. We rely on our marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. In the first quarter of 2022, our marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased significantly compared to the first quarter of 2021, due primarily to the continued improvement in travel demand trends as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has lessened in the first quarter of 2022 versus the first quarter of 2021. Marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross bookings increased in the first quarter of 2022 compared to the first quarter of 2021 due to year-over-year decreases in performance marketing ROIs, partly offset by favorable changes in the share of traffic by channel during the quarter. Sales and Other Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2022 2021 Sales and other expenses $ 339 $ 112 203.8 % % of Total revenues 12.6 % 9.8 % Sales and other expenses consist primarily of: credit card and other payment processing fees associated with merchant transactions; fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations, and other services; chargeback provisions and fraud prevention expenses associated with merchant transactions; provisions for expected credit losses, primarily related to accommodation commission receivables and prepayments to certain customers; and customer relations and other costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, sales and other expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, due primarily to an increase in merchant transaction costs of $137 million and an increase in third-party call center costs of $48 million. Merchant transactions increased in the first quarter of 2022 compared to the first quarter of 2021 due to the continued improvement in travel demand trends as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has lessened in the first quarter of 2022 versus the first quarter of 2021, as well as the expansion of merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com. 35 Personnel Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2022 2021 Personnel $ 596 $ 552 8.1 % % of Total revenues 22.1 % 48.4 % Personnel expenses consist primarily of: salaries; stock-based compensation; bonuses; payroll taxes; and employee health and other benefits. Personnel expenses excluding stock-based compensation increased 14% in the first quarter of 2022 compared to the first quarter of 2021 due to a $27 million higher bonus expense accrual and a $24 million increase in salary expenses. Headcount increased 8% year-over-year to approximately 21,000 employees as of March 31, 2022. Stock-based compensation expense was $93 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $109 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease in stock-based compensation expense in the first quarter of 2022 was due to the modification of certain awards during the first quarter of 2021. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2022 2021 General and administrative $ 158 $ 119 33.2 % % of Total revenues 5.9 % 10.4 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: occupancy and office expenses; fees for outside professionals; indirect taxes such as travel transaction taxes and digital services taxes; and personnel-related expenses such as travel, relocation, recruiting, and training expenses. General and administrative expenses increased for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, due to higher indirect taxes driven by the improvement in revenue, higher personnel-related expenses, and higher fees for professional services. Information Technology Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2022 2021 Information technology $ 134 $ 87 54.0 % % of Total revenues 5.0 % 7.6 % 36 Information technology expenses consist primarily of: software license and system maintenance fees; payments to contractors; outsourced data center and cloud computing costs; and data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services. Information technology expenses increased during the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, due to increased payments to contractors and software license fees, some of which relate to cybersecurity and data privacy. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2022 2021 Depreciation and amortization $ 111 $ 113 (2.2) % % of Total revenues 4.1 % 9.9 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; amortization of internally-developed and purchased software; depreciation of computer equipment; and depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures, and office equipment. Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, due to decreased depreciation of computer equipment and leasehold improvements, partially offset by increased amortization expense related to the acquisition of Getaroom. Restructuring, Disposal, and Other Exit Costs Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2022 2021 Restructuring, disposal, and other exit costs $ 36 $ 8 360.4 % % of Total revenues 1.3 % 0.7 % Restructuring, disposal, and other exit costs for the three months ended March 31, 2021 principally relate to the restructuring charges as a result of restructuring actions taken in 2020. These restructuring charges are primarily related to employee severance and other termination benefits at Booking.com. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, the expense relates to the loss recorded on the held-for-sale classification of assets, with the related liabilities, expected to be transferred to Majorel Group Luxembourg S.A. (see Note 15 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2022 2021 Interest expense $ 68 $ 98 (30.7) % Interest expense decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to the adoption on January 1, 2022 of the new accounting standards for convertible instruments, the issuance of senior notes with lower interest rates in March 2021, the redemption of senior notes with higher interest rates in 37 April 2021, and the maturity in September 2021 of convertible senior notes. The amortization of debt discount on convertible debt was recorded in Interest expense. With the adoption of the new accounting standards update, such amortization is not recorded in the financial statements for periods after January 1, 2022 (see Note 1 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2022 2021 Other income (expense), net $ (955) $ 131 (828.7) % The following table sets forth the breakdown of "Other income (expense), net" for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2022 2021 Net (losses) gains on equity securities $ (987) $ 36 Foreign currency transaction gains 30 88 Other 2 7 Other income (expense), net $ (955) $ 131 Net (losses) gains on equity securities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 are principally related to the losses on our equity investments in Meituan, DiDi Global Inc. ("DiDi"), and Grab Holdings Limited ("Grab") . Net gains on equity securities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 are principally related to the gains on our equity investments in Meituan. See Note 5 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Foreign currency transaction gains include gains of $30 million and $91 million related to our Euro-denominated debt and accrued interest that were not designated as net investment hedges and foreign currency losses of $16 million and $9 million on derivative contracts for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2022 2021 Income tax benefit $ (149) $ (223) (33.2) % % of Loss before income taxes 17.6 % 80.2 % Our 2022 effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to higher international tax rates, valuation allowances related to certain unrealized losses on equity securities, and certain non-deductible expenses, partially offset by the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax. Our 2021 effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to the effect of higher international tax rates and certain non-deductible expenses, partially offset by the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was lower than the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to lower discrete U.S. tax expense related to unrealized gains on equity securities, lower international tax rates and certain lower non-deductible expenses, partially offset by a decrease in the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax. During the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, a majority of our income was reported in the Netherlands, where Booking.com is based. Under Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying innovative activities is taxed at a rate of 9% ("Innovation Box Tax") rather than the Dutch statutory rate. Effective January 1, 2022, the Netherlands corporate income tax rate increased from 25% to 25.8%. A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the three months ended 38 March 31, 2022 and 2021 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment, which had a beneficial impact on the effective tax rates for these periods. While we expect Booking.com to continue to qualify for Innovation Box Tax treatment with respect to a portion of its earnings for the foreseeable future, the loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit, whether due to a change in tax law or a determination by the Dutch government that Booking.com's activities are not innovative or for any other reason, could substantially increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows in future periods. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial results and prospects are almost entirely dependent on the sale of travel-related services. The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting implementation of restrictive measures resulted in a significant decline in travel activities and consumer demand for related services, in 2020 in particular. Marketing expenses and personnel expenses are the most significant operating expenses for our business. We rely on marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. See our Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations and "Trends" and "Results of Operations" within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information on marketing expenses and personnel expenses including stock-based compensation expenses. Our continued access to sources of liquidity depends on multiple factors, including global economic conditions, the condition of global financial markets, the availability of sufficient amounts of financing, our ability to meet debt covenant requirements, our operating performance, our credit ratings, and the ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. If our credit ratings were to be downgraded, or financing sources were to ascribe higher risk to our rating levels or our industry, our access to capital and the cost of any financing would be negatively impacted. There is no guarantee that additional debt financing will be available in the future to fund our obligations, or that it will be available on commercially reasonable terms, in which case we may need to seek other sources of funding. In addition, the terms of future debt agreements could include more restrictive covenants than those we are currently subject to, which could restrict our business operations. At March 31, 2022, we had $12.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term investments, of which approximately $7.0 billion is held by our international subsidiaries. Cash, cash equivalents, and long-term investments held by our international subsidiaries are denominated primarily in Euros, Hong Kong Dollars, and British Pounds Sterling. Cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments are principally comprised of money market funds, time deposits and certificates of deposit, equity securities of Meituan, Grab, and DiDi, and our investments in private companies (see Notes 5 and 6 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Deferred merchant bookings of $2.8 billion and $906 million at March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively, represent cash payments received from travelers in advance of us completing our performance obligations and are comprised principally of amounts estimated to be payable to the travel service providers as well as our estimated deferred revenue for our commission or margin and fees. The amounts are subject to refunds for cancellations. At March 31, 2022, we had a remaining transition tax liability of $912 million as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), which included $825 million reported as "Long-term U.S. transition tax liability" and $87 million included in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. This liability will be paid over the next five years. In accordance with the Tax Act, generally, future repatriation of our international cash will not be subject to a U.S. federal income tax liability as a dividend, but will be subject to U.S. state income taxes and international withholding taxes, which have been accrued by us. In August 2019, we entered into a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $80 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $100 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. The proceeds of loans made under the facility can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, share repurchases and debt repayments. At March 31, 2022, there were no borrowings outstanding and $5 million of letters of credit issued under the facility. The revolving credit facility contains a maximum leverage ratio covenant, compliance with which is a condition to our ability to borrow thereunder. After a 2020 amendment to the revolving credit facility, the permitted maximum leverage ratio is increased through and including the three months ending March 31, 2023 and we may not declare or make any cash distribution or repurchase any of our shares (with certain exceptions including in connection with tax withholding related to shares issued to employees) unless (i) prior to the delivery of financial statements for the three months ending June 30, 2022, we have at least $6.0 billion of liquidity on a pro forma basis, based on unrestricted cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and unused capacity under this revolving credit facility and (ii) after the delivery of financial statements for the three months ending June 30, 2022, we are in compliance on a pro forma basis with the maximum leverage ratio covenant then in effect. Such restriction ends upon 39 delivery of financial statements required for the three months ending June 30, 2023, or we have the ability to terminate this restriction earlier if we demonstrate compliance with the original maximum leverage ratio covenant in the revolving credit facility. At March 31, 2022, we were in compliance with the relevant financial covenant. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the maximum leverage ratio covenant at any particular time, and our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility depends on compliance with the covenant. Further, the lenders have the right to require repayment of any amounts borrowed under the facility if we are not in compliance with the covenant. In March 2022, we repaid $1.1 billion on the maturity of senior notes with an interest rate of 0.8% and aggregate principal amount of 1.0 billion Euros. In September 2021, in connection with the maturity of Convertible Senior Notes due September 2021, we paid $1.0 billion to satisfy the aggregate principal amount due and paid an additional $86 million conversion premium in excess of the principal amount. In March 2021, we issued Senior Notes due March 2025 with an interest rate of 0.1% for an aggregate principal amount of 950 million Euros and Senior Notes due March 2028 with an interest rate of 0.5% for an aggregate principal amount of 750 million Euros. The proceeds from the senior notes issued in March 2021 were used to redeem the Senior Notes due April 2025 and the Senior Notes due April 2027, which we paid $2.0 billion to redeem in April 2021. See Note 9 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our debt arrangements, including principal amounts, interest rates and maturity dates. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we repurchased 486,112 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $1.1 billion. At March 31, 2022, we had a remaining aggregate amount of $9.5 billion authorized by our Board of Directors to repurchase our common stock. We expect to complete repurchases under the remaining authorization within the next three years assuming the travel recovery continues and we are able to meet the minimum liquidity required by the credit facility amendment . See Note 9 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the impact of the 2020 credit facility amendment on our ability to repurchase shares. In April 2022, we repurchased approximately $325 million of our common stock. In November 2021, we entered into an agreement to acquire global flight booking provider Etraveli Group for approximately 1.6 billion Euros ($1.8 billion). Completion of the acquisition is subject to certain closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. As of March 31, 2022, we had a remaining obligation of 8 million Euros ($9 million) related to the turnkey agreement for the construction of Booking.com's future headquarters in the Netherlands, which will be paid through 2022, when we anticipate construction will be complete. In addition to the turnkey agreement, we have a remaining obligation at March 31, 2022 to pay 68 million Euros ($75 million) over the remaining initial term of the acquired land lease, which expires in 2065. We have made and will continue to make additional capital expenditures to fit out and furnish the office space. At March 31, 2022, we had 15 million Euros ($17 million) of outstanding commitments to vendors to fit out and furnish the office space. At March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, we had lease obligations of $566 million and $561 million, respectively. Additionally, at March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, we had, in the aggregate, $171 million and $154 million, respectively, of non-cancellable purchase obligations individually greater than $10 million. At March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, there were $686 million and $511 million, respectively, of standby letters of credit and bank guarantees issued on our behalf. These are obtained primarily for regulatory purposes and payment guarantees to third-party payment processors. See Note 13 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our commitments and contingencies. We believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures, and other obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, if we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plans, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to compete or our future growth prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, revenue growth or sustained profitability may not be realized, and future borrowings or equity sales 40 may not be available in amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies, or repay our indebtedness. Cash Flow Analysis Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $1.7 billion, resulting from a favorable net change in working capital and long-term assets and liabilities of $1.3 billion and a favorable impact from adjustments for non-cash items of $1.1 billion, partially offset by net loss of $700 million. Non-cash items were principally associated with net losses on equity securities, deferred income tax benefit, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and other stock-based payments, provision for expected credit losses and chargebacks, and operating lease amortization. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, deferred merchant bookings and other current liabilities increased by $1.9 billion and accounts receivable increased by $326 million primarily due to increases in business volumes. Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $207 million, resulting from a net loss of $55 million and an unfavorable net change in working capital and long-term assets and liabilities of $262 million, partially offset by a favorable impact from adjustments for non-cash items of $110 million. Non-cash items were principally associated with depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and other stock-based payments, unrealized foreign currency transaction gains on Euro-denominated debt, deferred income tax benefit, operating lease amortization, and net gains on equity securities . For the three months ended March 31, 2021, prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $258 million, primarily due to $186 million higher tax benefit as a result of a net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and the prepayment of Netherlands income taxes of $175 million, partially offset by $64 million lower prepayments to third party payment processors. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, deferred merchant bookings and other current liabilities increased by $114 million, primarily due to higher deferred merchant bookings on account of increased business volumes, partially offset by a reduction in accrued compensation liabilities as a result of 2020 bonuses being paid during the three months ended March 31, 2021. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, accounts receivable increased by $72 million primarily due to increases in business volumes. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was $121 million and $65 million, respectively, principally resulting from purchase of property and equipment. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $2.1 billion, almost entirely resulting from the repayment of debt of $1.1 billion and payments for the repurchase of common stock of $1.0 billion. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $1.9 billion, almost entirely resulting from the proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $2.0 billion, partially offset by payments for the repurchase of common stock of $137 million. Contingencies French tax authorities conducted audits of Booking.com for the years 2003 through 2012, 2013 through 2015, and 2016 through 2018. In December 2015, the French tax authorities issued Booking.com assessments for unpaid income and value added taxes ("VAT") related to tax years 2006 through 2012 for approximately 356 million Euros ($396 million), the majority of which represents penalties and interest. The assessments assert that Booking.com had a permanent establishment in France. In December 2019, the French tax authorities issued an additional assessment of 70 million Euros ($78 million), including interest and penalties, for the 2013 tax year asserting that Booking.com had taxable income attributable to a permanent establishment in France. The French tax authorities also have issued assessments totaling 39 million Euros ($44 million), including interest and penalties, for certain tax years between 2011 and 2015 on Booking.com's French subsidiary asserting that the subsidiary did not receive sufficient compensation for the services it rendered to Booking.com in the Netherlands. On February 8, 2022, the French Tax Court issued a decision in favor of Booking.coms French subsidiary regarding the assessments of 3 million Euros ($4 million) for the tax years 2011 and 2012. In December 2021, the French tax authorities issued assessments on Booking.coms French subsidiary totaling 78 million Euros ($86 million), including interest and penalties, for the tax years 2016 through 2018 asserting that the subsidiary did not receive sufficient compensation for the services it rendered to Booking.com. As a result of a formal demand from the French tax authorities for payment of the amounts assessed against Booking.com for the years 2006 through 2012, in January 2019, we paid the assessments of approximately 356 million Euros ($396 million) in order to preserve our right to contest those assessments in court. The payment, which is included in "Other assets, net" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, does not constitute an admission that we owe the taxes and will be refunded (with interest) to us to the extent we prevail. In December 2019 and October 2020, we initiated court proceedings with respect to certain of the assessments. Although we believe that Booking.com has been, and continues to be, in compliance with French tax law, and we are contesting the assessments, during the three months ended September 30, 2020, we contacted the French tax authorities regarding the potential to achieve 41 resolution of the matter through a settlement. After assessing several potential outcomes and potential settlement amounts and terms, an expense for unrecognized tax benefit in the amount of 50 million Euros ($59 million) was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2020, of which the majority was included as a partial reduction to the tax payment recorded in "Other assets, net" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. In December 2020, the French Administrative Court (Conseil dEtat) delivered a decision in the "ValueClick" case that could have an impact on the outcome in our case. After considering the potential adverse impact of the new decision on the potential outcomes for the Booking.com assessments, we currently estimate that the reasonably possible loss related to VAT is approximately 20 million Euros ($22 million). For additional information related to the French and other tax assessments, see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item IA, Risk Factors - "We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Beginning in 2014, Booking.com received several letters from the Netherlands Pension Fund for the Travel Industry (Reiswerk) ("BPF") claiming that Booking.com is required to participate in the mandatory pension scheme of the BPF with retroactive effect to 1999, which has a higher contribution rate than the pension scheme in which Booking.com is currently participating. BPF instituted legal proceedings against Booking.com and in 2016 the District Court of Amsterdam rejected all of BPFs claims. BPF appealed the decision to the Court of Appeal, and, in May 2019, the Court of Appeal also rejected all of BPFs claims, in each case by ruling that Booking.com does not meet the definition of a travel intermediary for purposes of the mandatory pension scheme. BPF then appealed to the Netherlands Supreme Court. In April 2021, the Supreme Court overturned the previous decision of the Court of Appeal and held that Booking.com meets the definition of a travel intermediary for the purposes of the mandatory pension scheme. The Supreme Court ruled only on the qualification of Booking.com as a travel intermediary for the purposes of the mandatory pension scheme, and did not rule on the various other defenses we brought forward against BPF's claims. The Supreme Court referred the matter to another Court of Appeal that will have to assess the other defenses we brought forward if BPF were to proceed with the litigation. We intend to pursue a number of defenses in any subsequent proceedings and may ultimately prevail in whole or in part. While we continue to believe that Booking.com is in compliance with its pension obligations and that the Court of Appeal could ultimately rule in favor of Booking.com, given the Supreme Courts decision, we believe it is probable that we have incurred a loss related to this matter. We are not able to reasonably estimate a loss or a range of loss because there are significant factual and legal questions yet to be determined in any subsequent proceedings. As a result, as of March 31, 2022, we have not recorded a liability in connection with a potential adverse ultimate outcome to this litigation. However, if Booking.com were to ultimately lose and all of BPFs claims were to be accepted (including with retroactive effect to 1999), we estimate that as of March 31, 2022, the maximum loss, not including any potential interest or penalties, would be approximately 301 million Euros ($335 million). Such estimated potential loss increases as Booking.com continues not to contribute to the BPF and depends on Booking.coms applicable employee compensation after March 31, 2022. For additional information related to the pension matter and our other contingent liabilities, see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect our views regarding current expectations and projections about future events and conditions and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "aims," "seeks," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," and "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Part I, Item IA, Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.