Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements " at the end of this Item 2. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, " this discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in " Risk Factors " and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. The information on our websites is not a part of this Quarterly Report and is not incorporated herein by reference. We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period operating and financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Overview Our mission is to make it easier for everyone to experience the world. We seek to empower people to cut through travel barriers, such as money, time, language and overwhelming options, so they can use our services to easily and confidently go where they want to go, stay where they want to stay, dine where they want to dine, pay how they want to pay and experience what they want to experience. We connect consumers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world through our online platforms. Through one or more of our brands, consumers can: book a broad array of accommodations (including hotels, motels, resorts, homes, apartments, bed and breakfasts, hostels and other properties); make a car rental reservation or arrange for an airport taxi; make a dinner reservation; or book a flight, cruise, vacation package, tour or activity. Consumers can also use our meta-search services to easily compare travel reservation information, such as airline ticket, hotel reservation and rental car reservation information, from hundreds of online travel platforms at once. In addition, we offer various other services to consumers and partners, such as certain travel-related insurance products and restaurant management services to restaurants. We offer these services through six primary consumer-facing brands: Booking.com, KAYAK, priceline, agoda, Rentalcars.com and OpenTable. While historically our brands operated on a largely independent basis and many of them focused on a particular service (e.g., accommodation reservations) or geography, we are increasing the collaboration, cooperation and interdependency among our brands in our efforts to provide consumers with the best and most comprehensive services. We also seek to maximize the benefits of our scale by sharing resources and technological innovations, co-developing new services and coordinating activities in key markets among our brands. For example, Booking.com, the worlds leading brand for booking online accommodation reservations (based on room nights booked), offers rental car and other ground transportation services, flights, restaurant reservations, tours and activities reservations and other services, many of which are supported by our other brands. Similarly, hotel reservations available through Booking.com are also generally available through agoda and priceline. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands collectively as "Booking Holdings," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda and Rentalcars.com in their entirety and the international businesses of KAYAK and OpenTable. This classification is independent of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while using our services or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant. For example, a reservation made through Booking.com (which is domiciled in the Netherlands) at a hotel in New York by a consumer in the United States is part of our international results. In 2019, our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 90% of our consolidated revenues. A significant majority of our revenues, including a significant majority of our international revenues, is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations. See Note 2 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for more geographic information. We derive substantially all of our revenues from enabling consumers to make travel service reservations. We also earn revenues from credit card processing rebates and customer processing fees, advertising services, restaurant reservations and restaurant management services, and various other services, such as travel-related insurance revenues. 40 Trends In response to the outbreak of the novel strain of the coronavirus, COVID-19 (the "COVID-19 pandemic"), many governments around the world have implemented, and continue to implement, a variety of measures to reduce the spread of COVID-19, including travel restrictions and bans, instructions to residents to practice social distancing, quarantine advisories, shelter-in-place orders and required closures of non-essential businesses. These government mandates have forced many of the partners on whom our business relies, including hotels and other accommodation providers, airlines and restaurants, to seek government support in order to continue operating, to curtail drastically their service offerings or to cease operations entirely. Further, these measures have materially adversely affected, and may further adversely affect, consumer sentiment and discretionary spending patterns, economies and financial markets, and our workforce, operations and customers. The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting economic conditions and government orders have resulted in a material decrease in consumer spending and an unprecedented decline in travel and restaurant activities and consumer demand for related services. Our financial results and prospects are almost entirely dependent on the sale of such travel and restaurant-related services. Our results for the quarters ended March 31, 2020, June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2020 have been significantly and negatively impacted, with a material decline in gross travel bookings, room nights booked, total revenues, net income and cash flow from operations as compared to the corresponding period in 2019. Newly-booked room night reservations, excluding the impact of cancellations, declined rapidly as the COVID-19 pandemic spread, and decreased by over 85% in April 2020 as compared to April 2019, but since then had steadily improved through the summer travel period. However, more recently, we have seen an increased decline in newly-booked room night reservations, due in part to increased COVID-19 case counts and reimposed or additional government-imposed travel restrictions particularly in Europe. The general improvement in newly-booked room night trends since April has primarily been driven by domestic travel (travelers booking a stay within their own country) while international travel has shown very limited signs of recovery. Over this same time period, we have seen a year-over-year increase in the share of our newly-booked room nights made on a mobile device, as well as an increase in the share of newly-booked room nights for alternative accommodation properties, though the increase in alternative accommodation share has moderated more recently . In addition, we have observed an improvement in cancellation rates since the high in April, which benefits our room nights booked including cancellations but does not impact newly-booked room nights. Our revenue growth in the second and third quarters was impacted to a greater extent than newly-booked room night growth due to the impact of higher cancellations and lower accommodation average daily rates ("ADRs") as compared to the corresponding period in 2019. We expect to continue to see severely reduced new travel and restaurant reservation bookings as compared to 2019 levels for the foreseeable future, which will have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, given the volatility in global markets and the financial difficulties faced by many of our travel service provider and restaurant partners, we have increased our provision for expected credit losses on receivables from and cash advances made to our travel service provider and restaurant partners. Due to the uncertain and rapidly evolving nature of current conditions around the world, we are unable to predict accurately the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business going forward. As a result of the recently rising COVID-19 case counts and implementations of additional travel restrictions, particularly in Europe, we have seen recent reversals of the improving newly-booked room night and declining cancellation rate trends that we observed from April through the summer period. If these trends continue, we currently expect that the COVID-19 pandemic will impact our financial performance for the three months ending December 31, 2020 more significantly than it impacted the three months ended September 30, 2020. With the continued spread of COVID-19 in Europe, the United States and various other countries, we expect the pandemic and its effects to continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business for the duration of the pandemic, during any resurgences of the pandemic and during the subsequent economic recovery, which could be an extended period of time. For more information, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " The COVID-19 pandemic has materially adversely affected, and may further adversely impact, our business and financial performance." In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken and are taking various actions to address the impact of the pandemic on our business. Among other actions, we have: Raised $4.1 billion in debt and negotiated amendments to our revolving credit facility to provide additional financial flexibility Initiated restructuring activities at all of our brands Participated in certain government aid programs, including employee wage support programs Suspended general share repurchases Eliminated non-essential business travel Canceled internal company events and offsites Significantly reduced marketing spend worldwide Implemented a general company-wide hiring freeze 41 Sold investments in government debt securities, corporate debt securities and Trip.com Group American Depositary Shares ("ADSs") Further, our Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Executive Officers of our brands have voluntarily declined their salaries, certain other senior managers have voluntarily reduced their salaries and our non-employee Directors have voluntarily waived their cash fees until the end of 2020. In response to the reduction in our business volumes as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, during the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we have taken actions at all our brands to reduce the size of our workforce to optimize efficiency and reduce costs. We have initiated restructuring activities at all our brands, and once completed we expect to realize annualized cost savings between $330 million and $380 million in personnel-related expenses. Restructuring activities at Booking.com are still in progress, as Booking.com continues the process of consulting with its employees, works councils, employee representatives and other relevant organizations where applicable (including in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom) regarding the intended reduction in force and related cost reduction and restructuring actions. At this time, and subject to finalizing our plans following consultation with Booking.coms employees, works councils, including the Dutch works council, employee representatives and other relevant organizations, we continue to estimate that in total these cost reductions at Booking.com could produce annualized personnel run-rate savings between $250 million to $300 million. In addition to the restructuring expenses recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and included in Restructuring and other exit costs in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations, we estimate that we will record approximately $100 million of additional restructuring expenses, in the aggregate, during the three months ending December 31, 2020 and in early 2021. This preliminary estimate may change and will be updated as we finalize our cost reduction plans at Booking.com. We are targeting to complete the vast majority of announcements to affected employees by the end of 2020. We expect that by the time the restructuring activities are complete, the workforce will have been reduced by up to approximately 25%, as compared to when we began the restructuring activities at Booking.com, due to these restructuring activities and attrition. We have also been working with travelers and our travel service provider partners to deal with reservation cancellations and other disruptions arising from the impact of the pandemic. For example, when the pandemic started, Booking.com committed to allow cancellations of certain non-refundable bookings that were impacted by government travel restrictions and OpenTable has waived fees payable by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service and subscription fees for many restaurants. The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic are wide-ranging and affect all aspects of our business. As a result, the pandemic has negatively affected our financial results and condition as described throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We anticipate that we will continue to make decisions and take actions to address the impacts of the pandemic on our business, including additional efforts to reduce costs while preserving our ability to offer valuable services to consumers and partners when the industry recovers. The full impact of the pandemic on our business is impossible to predict, and therefore we may recognize additional negative impacts to our operating results and financial condition in future periods as a result of the pandemic. Certain governments have passed or are considering modifying legislation to help businesses during the COVID-19 pandemic through loans, wage subsidies, tax relief or other financial aid, and some of these governments have extended or are considering extending these programs. We have participated in several of these programs, including the Netherlands' wage subsidy program and the United Kingdom's job retention scheme. In addition, certain governments have extended support for the travel and tourism industry through special programs whereby discounts are extended to travelers through travel service providers or through travel agents for reservations facilitated by them. We are participating in Japan's Go To Travel program and Thailand's We Travel Together program. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced many years of significant growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth was the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices and the growth of travel overall. We also believe this growth was the result of the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to increase the number and the variety of accommodations we offer consumers, increase and improve content, build distribution and improve the consumer experience on our online platforms, as well as consistently and effectively marketing our brands through performance and brand marketing efforts. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, these year-over-year growth rates generally decelerated due to the size of our accommodation reservation business and the generally slowing growth rate of the online travel market. As the travel market recovers from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect to see higher than pre-COVID-19 pandemic growth rates until we return to the level of travel market demand that we observed prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, after which we expect prior trends to generally resume. 42 We are a global business, and online travel growth rates vary across the world depending on numerous factors, including local and regional economic conditions, individual disposable income, access to the internet and adoption of e-commerce. Over the last several years, and prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, online travel growth rates had generally slowed in markets such as North America and Europe where online activity was high and consumers had been engaging in e-commerce transactions for many years, while online travel growth rates remained relatively high in markets such as Asia-Pacific where incomes were rising more quickly and the increased availability and use of mobile devices had accelerated the growth of internet usage and travel e-commerce transactions. Over the long term, we expect the broader global economy and online travel market to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, and following the recovery of the travel industry to the level of pre-COVID-19 pandemic demand, we would expect online travel growth rates will slow as markets continue to mature. However, we believe that the opportunity to grow our business beyond pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels exists for the markets in which we operate, including in both mature and less mature markets. Further, we believe that this opportunity for growth exists because we believe we provide significant value to travel service providers, regardless of size or geography, due to our global reach and online marketing expertise. For example, we believe that accommodation providers of all sizes, from large hotel chains to small, independent hotels and alternative accommodations such as homes and apartments, benefit from using our services, which enable them to reach a broader audience of potential customers. Historically, our growth has primarily been generated by the worldwide accommodation reservation business of Booking.com, which is our most significant brand, and has been due, in part, to the availability of a large number of properties through Booking.com. Booking.com included approximately 2,483,000 properties on its website at September 30, 2020, consisting of approximately 450,000 hotels, motels and resorts and approximately 2,033,000 homes, apartments and other unique places to stay, compared to approximately 2,520,000 properties (including approximately 455,000 hotels, motels and resorts and approximately 2,065,000 homes, apartments, and other unique places to stay) at September 30, 2019. Booking.com categorizes properties listed on its website as either (a) hotels, motels and resorts, which groups together more traditional accommodation types (including hostels and inns), or (b) homes, apartments and other unique places to stay, also referred to as alternative accommodations, which encompasses all other types of accommodations, including bed and breakfasts, villas, apart-hotels and beyond. We intend to continue to improve the accommodation choices available for reservation on our platforms, however the growth rate of the number of accommodations on our platforms may vary in part as a result of removing accommodations from time to time. At September 30, 2020, we saw a year-over-year decrease in the number of properties on Booking.coms website, as compared to September 30, 2019, driven by an elevated number of accommodations removed from the platform due primarily to the properties not providing availability on our platforms, non-payment of invoices, or property closures. We have continued to see a year-over-year increase in the number of accommodations removed from our platform during the COVID-19 pandemic, and we expect to see further accommodation removals in the future due to increases in property closures or changes in ownership. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly-penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts). Because alternative accommodations are often either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, these properties generally represent more limited booking opportunities than hotels, motels and resorts, which generally have more units to rent per property. Further, alternative accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons or other factors or may not be available at peak times due to use by the property owners. We may also experience lower profit margins with respect to these properties due to certain additional costs, such as increased customer service costs, related to offering these accommodations on our platforms. As our alternative accommodation business has grown, these different characteristics have negatively impacted our profit margins and we expect this trend to continue. Further, to the extent these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our platforms, we expect that our room nights growth rate and property growth rate will continue to diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of alternative accommodation properties increases, the number of reservations per property will likely continue to decrease. In the third quarter of 2020, we observed a moderately higher share of our newly-booked room nights to be for stays at our alternative accommodation properties, as compared to the corresponding period in 2019. We believe that continuing to improve the choices of accommodations available through our services, in particular Booking.com, will help us to continue to grow our accommodation reservation business. We are constantly innovating to grow our business by, among other things, providing a best-in-class user experience with intuitive, easy-to-use online platforms (i.e., websites and mobile apps) to ensure that we are meeting the needs of online consumers while aiming to exceed their expectations. As part of these ongoing efforts, we have a long-term strategy to build a more integrated offering of multiple elements of travel, which we refer to as the "Connected Trip", and we expect these efforts to increase room night growth and revenue growth over time. Although we expect our efforts to build the Connected Trip will 43 increase revenue growth over time, we may see a negative impact on our operating margins in the near term as we incur the expenses associated with these investments. Further, to the extent our non-accommodation services grow faster than our accommodation services, whether as part of the Connected Trip or otherwise, our operating margins may be negatively affected if we experience an increasing mix of revenues from lower-margin services. As part of our strategy to provide more payment options to consumers and travel service providers, increase the number and variety of accommodations available on Booking.com and enable the growth of our in-destination activities businesses, Booking.com is increasingly processing transactions on a merchant basis, where it facilitates payments from travelers for the services provided. This allows Booking.com to process transactions for travel service providers and to increase its ability to offer secure and flexible transaction terms to consumers, such as the form and timing of payment. We believe that adding these types of service offerings will benefit consumers and travel service providers, as well as our gross bookings, room night and earnings growth rates. However, this results in additional expenses for personnel, payment processing, customer chargebacks (including those related to fraud) and other expenses related to these transactions, which are recorded in "Personnel" and "Sales and other expenses" in our Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations, as well as associated incremental revenues in the form of credit card rebates, for example, which are recorded in "Merchant revenues." To the extent more of our business is generated on a merchant basis, we will incur a greater level of these merchant-related expenses, which would negatively impact our operating margins despite increases in associated incremental revenues. Components of revenues and expenses related to our merchant business may be recognized in different periods. These timing factors could impact our operating margins as well as the relationship between our gross bookings and revenues in a particular period, especially as our merchant business increases as a percentage of our overall business. We compete globally with both online and traditional providers of travel and restaurant reservation and related services. The markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive, constantly evolving and subject to rapid change, and current and new competitors can launch new services at relatively low cost. Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple, Alibaba, Tencent, Amazon and Facebook, have significantly more customers or users, consumer data and financial and other resources than we do, and they may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to enable them to compete more effectively with us. For example, Google has entered various aspects of the online travel market and has grown rapidly in this area, including by offering a flight meta-search product (Google Flights), a hotel meta-search product (Google Hotel Ads), a vacation rental meta-search product, its "Book on Google" reservation functionality and integrating its hotel and restaurant meta-search products into its Google Maps app, as well as Google Travel, a planning tool which aggregates its flight, hotel and packages products in one website. Moreover, as the economy and the travel industry recover from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the structure of the travel industry could change in unexpected ways, which could advantage or disadvantage us and benefit certain of our existing competitors or new entrants. As a result, our historical strengths may not provide the competitive advantages that they did prior to the pandemic. If we are unable to successfully adapt to any changes in how the travel industry operates or to changes in the ways in which consumers purchase travel services, our ability to compete, and therefore our business and results of operations, would be adversely affected. Our markets are also subject to rapidly changing conditions, including technological developments, consumer behavior changes, regulatory changes and travel service provider consolidation. We expect these trends to continue. For example, we have experienced a significant shift of both direct and indirect business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. In addition, the revenue earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay, have lower accommodation ADRs and are not made as far in advance. In the third quarter of 2020, we have observed a higher share of our newly-booked room nights made on a mobile device, as compared to the first and second quarters of 2020 and the corresponding period in 2019. For more detail regarding the competitive trends and risks we face, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. " and " Consumer adoption and use of mobile devices creates challenges and may enable device companies such as Google and Apple to compete directly with us. " and " We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological or other market changes. " Although we believe that providing an extensive collection of properties, excellent customer service and an intuitive, easy-to-use consumer experience are important factors influencing a consumer's decision to make a reservation, for many consumers, particularly in certain markets, the price of the travel service is the primary factor determining whether a consumer will book a reservation. As a result, it is increasingly important to offer travel services, such as accommodation reservations, at competitive prices, whether through discounts, coupons, closed-user group rates or loyalty programs, or otherwise. These initiatives have resulted and in the future may result in lower ADRs and lower revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Discounting and couponing coupled with a high degree of consumer shopping behavior is particularly common in Asian 44 markets. In some cases, our competitors are willing to make little or no profit on a transaction, or offer travel services at a loss, in order to gain market share. We have experienced a meaningful decline in constant-currency accommodation ADRs since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and it is uncertain how long the COVID-19 pandemic will impact our ADRs. Prior to the outbreak, we observed a trend of declining constant-currency accommodation ADRs, which we expected to continue, though the rate of decline may fluctuate and there may be periods of stable or increasing ADRs. We believe the trend of declining ADRs, observed prior to the outbreak, was partially driven by the negative impact of the changing geographical mix of our business (e.g., lower ADR regions like Asia-Pacific are generally growing faster than higher ADR regions like Western Europe) as well as pricing pressures within local markets from time to time which resulted from competitive conditions, weakening economic conditions or changes in travel patterns. These declining ADR trends have resulted in and may continue to result in our gross bookings growing at a lower rate of growth than our accommodation room nights. We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through marketing and promotional campaigns. Historically, our marketing expenses increased significantly, however, we experienced more moderate growth rates in recent years, and since the COVID-19 pandemic, our marketing expenses have declined significantly. Our marketing expense is comprised of performance marketing and brand marketing expenses. Our performance marketing expense, which represents a substantial majority of our marketing expense, is primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services and affiliate marketing to generate traffic to our websites. Our brand marketing expense is primarily related to costs associated with producing and airing television advertising, online video advertising (for example, on YouTube and Facebook), online display advertising and other brand marketing. Total marketing expenses were $0.7 billion and $1.8 billion for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively, compared to $1.4 billion and $4.0 billion for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively. We expect that our marketing expenses will remain significantly below 2019 levels for the remainder of 2020. Marketing efficiency, expressed as marketing expense as a percentage of total revenues, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign currency exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers, the timing and effectiveness of our brand marketing campaigns and the extent to which consumers come directly to our platforms for bookings. For example, competition for desired rankings in search results and/or a decline in ad clicks by consumers could increase our costs per click and reduce our marketing efficiency. Changes by Google or any of our other search or meta-search partners in how it presents travel search results, including, if applicable, by placing its own offerings at or near the top of search results, or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results may be competitively disadvantageous to us and may impact our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites. We have observed a long-term trend of decreasing performance marketing returns on investment ("ROIs"), however, in recent years, we observed periods of stable or increasing ROIs. During the first several months of the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced large year-over-year declines in ROIs driven by a significant increase in cancellation rates. While we have observed year-over-year decreases in ROIs in the second and third quarters of 2020, ROIs have improved since the early months of the pandemic, though we expect volatility in our ROIs for the duration of the pandemic. When evaluating our performance marketing spend, we typically consider several factors for each channel, such as the customer experience on the advertising platform, the incrementality of the traffic we receive and the anticipated repeat rate from a particular platform, as well as other factors. However, with the significant decrease in demand due to the COVID-19 pandemic, our performance marketing spend is highly influenced by expected cancellation rates in addition to the other factors listed above. The amount of business we obtain through each performance marketing channel is impacted by numerous factors, including the level of consumer demand for travel, bidding decisions by us and our competitors (including decisions to optimize performance marketing ROIs) and the marketing efforts and success of those channels to attract consumers and generate demand. See Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " We rely on marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our platforms and grow our business. " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in online search and meta-search algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " In recent years, we experienced significant increases in our cancellation rates, which negatively affected our marketing efficiency and results of operations. However, from the third quarter of 2018 until the fourth quarter of 2019, our cancellation rates generally decreased, which benefited our marketing efficiency and results of operations. Since the COVID-19 pandemic we have experienced unprecedented increases in cancellation rates, which negatively impacted our marketing efficiency and results of operations. For example, increased cancellations, especially early in the pandemic, have resulted in increased customer service costs, as well as higher than normal cash outlays to refund consumers for prepaid reservations. However, from April 2020 through the third quarter of 2020, we saw a steady improvement in cancellation rates, which trended towards levels that we observed prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. More recently, we have seen a reversal of the improving cancellation 45 rate trend, and we expect to continue to see volatility in cancellation rates due to any resurgences of the pandemic leading to reinstituted or additional travel restrictions, shelter-in-place rules and reduced willingness to travel. Further, in the third quarter of 2020, a higher share of our newly-booked room night reservations were made with flexible cancellation policies, as compared to the first quarter of 2020 and the corresponding period in 2019, which could result in higher than normal cancellation rates in future quarters. Perceived or actual adverse economic conditions, including slow, slowing or negative economic growth, high or rising unemployment rates, inflation and weakening currencies, and concerns over government responses such as higher taxes or tariffs and reduced government spending have impaired and could in the future impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. We expect the lingering concerns of consumers around the safety of traveling as well as reduced discretionary incomes could negatively impact leisure travel demand. Further, political uncertainty, conditions or events, such as the variety of measures implemented by many governments around the world to reduce the spread of COVID-19, including travel restrictions and bans, instructions to residents to practice social distancing, quarantine advisories, shelter-in-place orders and required closures of non-essential businesses can also negatively affect consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates, increased cancellation rates and weaker trends in ADRs across many regions of the world, particularly in those countries that appear to be most affected by economic and political uncertainties, which we believe are due at least in part to these macro-economic conditions and concerns. For more detail, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " The COVID-19 pandemic has materially adversely affected, and may further adversely impact, our business and financial performance" and " Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance. " These and other macro-economic uncertainties, such as geopolitical tensions and differing central bank monetary policies, have led to significant volatility in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and other currencies. Significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, stock markets and oil prices can also impact consumer travel behavior. As noted earlier, our international business represents a substantial majority of our financial results. Therefore, because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates as the financial results and the financial condition of our international businesses are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. As a result, both the absolute amounts of and percentage changes in our foreign-currency-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate changes. Our foreign-currency-denominated gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars are higher for the three months ended September 30, 2020 than they would have been had foreign currency exchange rates remained unchanged from the three months ended September 30, 2019. However, for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, movements in foreign currency exchange rates had little or no impact on our performance metrics and financial results. For example, total revenues from our international businesses decreased by 47.7% and 53.1% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 as compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, but, without the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, declined year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately 49% and 53%. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins have not been significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. Historically, the aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated long-term debt and accrued interest thereon provided a hedge against the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on the net assets of one of our Euro functional currency subsidiaries. Beginning in the second quarter of 2019, we have only designated certain portions of the aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated debt as a hedge, and as a result we have recognized foreign currency transaction gains or losses. The foreign currency transaction gains or losses on the Euro-denominated debt that is not designated as a hedging instrument for accounting purposes are recognized in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 6 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). For more information, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates." We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our transactional balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. In periods prior to the second quarter of 2020, we also entered into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on the translation of our consolidated operating results into U.S. Dollars. However, these instruments were short-term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact growth rates for our gross bookings or revenues. Since the first quarter of 2020, we have not entered into such derivative instruments as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operating results are highly uncertain. We will continue to evaluate the use of derivative instruments in the future. (See Note 6 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our derivative contracts). 46 Many taxing authorities are increasingly focused on ways to increase tax revenues and have targeted large multinational technology companies in these efforts. As a result, many countries have implemented or are considering the adoption of a digital services tax that imposes a tax on revenue earned from digital advertisements and the use of online platforms, even when there is no physical presence in the jurisdiction. Currently, rates for this tax range from 2% to 7.5% of revenue deemed generated in the jurisdiction. The digital services taxes currently in effect have negatively impacted our results of operations and if many other countries pass similar legislation, the collective impact of all of these measures could have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. For more information, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " Many national governments have conducted or are conducting investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. Some countries have adopted or proposed legislation that could also affect business practices within the online travel industry. For example, France, Italy, Belgium and Austria have passed legislation prohibiting parity contract clauses in their entirety. Also, a number of governments are investigating or conducting information-gathering exercises with respect to compliance by OTCs with consumer protection laws, including practices related to the display of search results and search ranking algorithms, claims regarding discounts, disclosure of charges and availability, and similar messaging. For more information on these investigations and their potential effects on our business, see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " Our business is subject to various competition/anti-trust, consumer protection and online commerce laws, rules and regulations around the world, and as the size of our business grows, scrutiny of our business by legislators and regulators in these areas may intensify. " In addition to the price parity and consumer protection investigations, from time to time national competition authorities, other governmental agencies, trade associations and private parties take legal actions, including commencing legal proceedings, that may affect our operations. In general, increased regulatory focus on online businesses, including online travel businesses like ours, could result in increased compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. Seasonality In recent years, the majority of our gross bookings have been generated in the first half of the year, as consumers planned and reserved their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. However, we would generally recognize revenue from these bookings when the travel begins (at "check-in"), which can be in a quarter other than when the associated reservations are booked. In contrast, we expensed the substantial majority of our marketing activities as the expense is incurred, which, in the case of marketing in particular, is typically in the quarter in which associated reservations were booked. As a result of this timing difference between when we recorded marketing expense and when we recognized associated revenue, we have experienced our highest levels of profitability in the third quarter of the year, which is when we experienced the highest levels of accommodation check-ins for the year for our European and North American businesses. The first quarter of the year was typically our lowest level of profitability and highest level of volatility in earnings growth rates due to these seasonal timing factors. For our Asia-Pacific business, we experienced the highest level of accommodation check-ins in the fourth quarter. As the relative growth rates for our businesses fluctuate, the quarterly distribution of our operating results may vary. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted seasonality in 2020; for example, we witnessed a higher share of travel being booked during the second and third quarter for stays during the summer period than in prior years. We cannot currently predict travel patterns given the COVID-19 pandemic, and we may not experience typical seasonality effects on our business in 2021. For several years, we experienced an expansion of the booking window (the average time between the making of a travel reservation and the travel), which impacts the relationship between our gross bookings (recognized at the time of booking) and our revenues (recognized at the time of check-in). However, we saw a contraction of the booking window throughout 2018 and 2019. Due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our booking trends, we saw an initial expansion in the booking window versus the comparable prior-year period as an increased percentage of newly-booked room nights were made for travel occurring during the summer period. However, in the third quarter, we saw a significant contraction of the booking window versus the comparable prior-year period as an increased percentage of newly-booked room nights were made for travel that was to occur close to the time of booking. We expect that the length of the booking window will be volatile and difficult to predict throughout the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. Future changes in the length of the booking window will affect the degree to which our gross bookings and revenues occur in the same period and, as a result, whether our gross bookings growth rates and revenue growth rates converge or diverge. In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2019, Easter fell on April 21 and Easter-related travel began in the second quarter, when the associated revenue was recognized. By comparison, in 2018, Easter was on April 1 and a meaningful amount of Easter-related travel began in the week leading up to 47 the holiday with the associated revenue being recognized in the first quarter of 2018. As a result of the shift in Easter timing relative to 2018, our first quarter 2019 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, operating income and operating margins were negatively impacted and our second quarter 2019 year-over-year growth rates were positively impacted. In 2020, Easter fell on April 12, in the second quarter as it did in 2019, and as a result we did not experience a meaningful impact to our year-over-year growth rates in 2020 from the Easter holiday. Further, due to the significant reduction in travel demand related to the COVID-19 pandemic, we do not expect the timing of the Easter holiday to have a meaningful impact on our growth rates in 2021. The timing of other holidays such as Ramadan can also impact our quarterly year-over-year growth rates. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable marketing expense. In addition, revenue growth is typically less impacted by decelerating gross bookings growth in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters, but any such deceleration would negatively impact revenue growth in subsequent periods. Conversely, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate accelerates, our operating margins are typically negatively impacted by relatively more variable marketing expense. In addition, revenue growth is typically less impacted by accelerating gross bookings growth in the near term, but any such acceleration would positively impact revenue growth in subsequent periods as a portion of the revenue recognized from such gross bookings will occur in future quarters. Other Factors We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel-related services. Factors beyond our control, such as oil prices, stock market volatility, terrorist attacks, unusual or extreme weather or natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, fires, droughts and volcanic eruptions, travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as COVID-19 and other coronaviruses, Ebola and Zika, political instability, changes in economic conditions, wars and regional hostilities, imposition of taxes, tariffs or surcharges by regulatory authorities, changes in trade policies or trade disputes, changes in immigration policies or travel-related accidents or increased focus on the environmental impact of travel, can disrupt travel, limit the ability or willingness of travelers to visit certain locations or otherwise result in declines in travel demand. These kinds of events have negatively affected our business and results of operations in the past and may do so again in the future. Because these events or concerns, and the full impact of their effects, are largely unpredictable, they can dramatically and suddenly affect travel behavior by consumers, and therefore demand for our services and our relationships with travel service providers and other partners, any of which can adversely affect our business and results of operations. See Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " The COVID-19 pandemic has materially adversely affected, and may further adversely impact, our business and financial performance" and " Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance. " The extent of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects is highly uncertain and will ultimately depend on future developments. We expect the pandemic and its effects to continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business for the duration of the pandemic and during the subsequent economic recovery, which could be an extended period of time. Over the long-term, we intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. In recent years, we have experienced pressure on operating margins as we invested in initiatives to drive future growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, acquisitions. We believe competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of services and technologies, including services and technologies that may be outside of our historical core business, and our ability to keep pace may slow. Potential competitors, such as emerging start-ups, may be able to innovate and focus on developing a particularly new product or service faster than we can or may foresee consumer need for new services or technologies before us. Some of our larger competitors or potential competitors have more resources or more established or diversified relationships with consumers than we do, and they could use these advantages in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, entering or investing in travel reservation businesses, investing in research and development, and competing aggressively for highly-skilled employees. For example, because consumers often utilize other online services more frequently than online travel services, a competitor or potential competitor that has established other, more frequent online interactions with consumers may be able to more easily or cost-effectively acquire customers for its online travel services than we can. Our goal is to grow revenue and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain and highly competitive environment in which we operate makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to return to the levels of revenue growth and profitability we experienced before the COVID-19 pandemic. 48 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"). Certain of our accounting estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Our management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. Estimates are based on, among other things, historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Valuation of Goodwill and Other Long-lived Assets A substantial portion of our intangible assets and goodwill relates to the acquisitions of OpenTable and KAYAK. We review long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based upon the ability to recover the carrying value of the assets from the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows, before interest and taxes, of the related asset group. Due to the significant and negative financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, at March 31, 2020, we performed the recoverability test of our long-lived assets and concluded there was no impairment. At September 30, 2020, for asset groups other than OpenTable and KAYAK, no additional impairment indicators were identified. For OpenTable and KAYAK, we tested the recoverability of the long-lived assets and concluded there was no impairment at September 30, 2020. We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We test goodwill at a reporting unit level. Our annual goodwill impairment tests are performed as of September 30. Interim Goodwill Impairment Test Due to the significant and negative financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we performed an interim period goodwill impairment test at March 31, 2020. Under the current goodwill impairment standard adopted in the first quarter of 2020, a goodwill impairment loss is measured at the amount by which a reporting units carrying amount exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill (see Note 1 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). As of March 31, 2020, the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units, except the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit, substantially exceeded its respective carrying value. For the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $489 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, which is not tax-deductible, resulting in an adjusted carrying value of goodwill for OpenTable and KAYAK of $1.5 billion at March 31, 2020. The goodwill impairment was primarily driven by a significant reduction in the forecasted near-term cash flows of OpenTable and KAYAK as well as the significant decline in comparable companies' market values as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK was determined using a combination of standard valuation techniques, including an income approach (discounted cash flows) and a market approach (applying the recent decline in enterprise values of comparable publicly-traded companies to the recently calculated fair value for OpenTable and KAYAK as well as applying comparable company multiples). The income approach estimates fair value utilizing long-term growth rates and discount rates applied to the cash flow projections. In the cash flow projections, we assumed that OpenTable and KAYAK will experience a significant decline in near-term cash flows with a recovery to 2019 levels o f financial performance (including profitability) occurring in 2023. The shape and timing of the recovery was a key assumption in our fair value calculation (both in the income and market approaches). Annual Goodwill Impairment Test As of September 30, 2020, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test . Other than the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit, the fair values of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values. For the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $573 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020, which is not tax-deductible, resulting in an adjusted carrying value of goodwill for OpenTable and KAYAK of $1.0 billion at September 30, 2020 . The goodwill impairment was primarily driven by a significant 49 reduction in the forecasted cash flows of OpenTable and KAYAK, reflecting a longer assumed recovery period to 2019 levels of profitability, mainly due to the continued material adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including its impact on the flight vertical at KAYAK, and the lowered current outlook for monetization opportunities in restaurant reservation services . The estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK was determined using a combination of standard valuation techniques, including an income approach (discounted cash flows) and a market approach (applying comparable company multiples). The income approach estimates fair value utilizing long-term growth rates and discount rates applied to the cash flow projections. The income approach, applied as of September 30, 2020, reflects a reduction in the forecasted cash flows of OpenTable and KAYAK and a longer assumed recovery period to 2019 levels of profitability, driven primarily by the lowered current outlook for monetization opportunities in restaurant reservation services and slower than previously expected recovery trends for airline travel, which is a key vertical for KAYAK. For the interim goodwill impairment test at March 31, 2020, we expected a recovery to 2019 levels of financial performance occurring in 2023 for OpenTable and KAYAK. Based on our evaluation of all relevant information available as of September 30, 2020 for the annual goodwill impairment test, we do not expect that OpenTable and KAYAK will return to the 2019 level of profitability within the next five years, and it is uncertain whether the shape of the recovery will ultimately match our expectations. An increase or decrease of one percentage point to the profitability growth rates used in the cash flow projections would result in an increase or decrease of approximately $100 million to the estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK at September 30, 2020. The discount rate is determined based o n the reporting units estimated weighted-average cost of capital and adjusted to reflect the risks inherent in its cash flows, which requires significant judgments. The discount rate used for the annual goodwill impairment test as of September 30, 2020 is higher than the discount rate used for the interim goodwill impairment test as of March 31, 2020. If the discount rate used in the income approach increases or decreases by 0.5%, the impact to the estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK, at September 30, 2020, ranges from a decrease of approximately $65 million to an increase of approximately $70 million. The estimation of fair value reflects numerous assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including key assumptions regarding OpenTable and KAYAKs expected growth rates and operating margin, expected length and severity of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic, the shape and timing of the subsequent recovery and the competitive environment, as well as other key assumptions with respect to matters outside of our control, such as discount rates and market comparables. It requires significant judgments and estimates and actual results could be materially different than the judgments and estimates used to estimate fair value. Future events and changing market conditions may lead us to re-evaluate the assumptions reflected in the current forecast disclosed above, particularly the assumptions related to the length and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and the shape and timing of the subsequent recovery, which may result in a need to recognize an additional goodwill impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Valuation of Investments in Private Companies See Note 5 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the investments in private companies. The fair value of these investments are measured using unobservable inputs when little or no market data is available ("Level 3 inputs"). See Note 6 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Our investments measured using Level 3 inputs primarily consist of preferred stock investments in privately-held companies that are classified as either debt securities or equity securities without readily determinable fair values. Fair values of privately held securities are estimated using a variety of valuation methodologies, including both market and income approaches. We have used valuation techniques appropriate for the type of investment and the information available about the investee as of the valuation date to determine fair value. Recent financing transactions in the investee, such as new investments in preferred stock, are generally considered the best indication of enterprise value and therefore used as a basis to estimate fair value. However, based on a number of factors, such as the proximity in timing to the valuation date or the volume or other terms of these financing transactions, we may also use other valuation techniques to supplement this data, including the income approach. In addition, an option-pricing model (OPM) is utilized to allocate value to the various classes of securities of the investee, including the class owned by us. The model includes assumptions around the investees expected time to liquidity and volatility. Our investments in private companies accounted for as debt securities had an aggregate estimated fair value of $250 million at September 30, 2020, which includes the Grab investment with an estimated fair value of $200 million. We measured these investments with a "Level 3" valuation using management's estimates that incorporate current market participant expectations of future cash flows considered alongside recent financing transactions of the investees and other relevant information. 50 We performed an impairment analysis on the investment in Didi Chuxing at March 31, 2020 considering the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in an adjusted carrying value of $400 million at March 31, 2020 and September 30, 2020. No additional impairment indicators were identified as of September 30, 2020. As discussed below, we used unobservable inputs in order to determine fair value. We used an income approach in estimating the fair value of Didi Chuxing as of March 31, 2020. The income approach estimates value based on the expectation of future cash flows that a company will generate. These future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a discount rate based on a companys weighted- average cost of capital, and is adjusted to reflect the risks inherent in its cash flows. The key unobservable inputs and ranges used include the weighted average cost of capital (12%-14%), terminal Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) multiple (13x-15x), volatility (60%-70%) and an estimated time to liquidity of 4 years. Significant changes in any of these inputs in isolation would have resulted in significantly different fair value measurements. Generally, a change in the assumption used for terminal EBITDA multiples would result in a directionally similar change in the fair value and a change in the assumption used for weighted average cost of capital or volatility would result in a directionally opposite change in the fair value. The determination of the fair values of investments, where we are a minority shareholder and have access to limited information from the investee, reflects numerous assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including key assumptions regarding the investees expected growth rates and operating margin, expected length and severity of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic and the shape and timing of the subsequent recovery, as well as other key assumptions with respect to matters outside of our control, such as discount rates and market comparables. It requires significant judgments and estimates and actual results could be materially different than those judgments and estimates utilized in the fair value estimate. Future events and changing market conditions may lead us to re-evaluate the assumptions reflected in our valuation, particularly the assumptions related to the length and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and the shape and timing of the subsequent recovery and the overall impact on the investees business, which may result in a need to recognize an additional impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Contingencies Loss contingencies (other than income tax related contingencies) arise from actual or possible claims and assessments and pending or threatened litigation that may be brought against us by individuals, governments or other entities. Based on our assessment of loss contingencies at each balance sheet date, a loss is recorded in the financial statements if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. If the amount of the loss cannot be reasonably estimated, we disclose information about the contingency in the financial statements. We also disclose information in our financial statements about reasonably possible loss contingencies. The determination of whether a loss is probable and whether the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated requires significant judgment and evaluation of all the underlying facts and circumstances, including judgments about the potential actions of third-party claimants, regulatory authorities and courts. Claims, assessments and litigations involve significant uncertainties such as the complexity of the facts, the legal theories involved, the nature of the claims, the judgement of the courts, the applicable methodology for determining potential damages and, in the case of class actions, whether a class action can be certified, the extent to which members of a class would or would not file a claim and the uncertainty inherent in class actions. On a quarterly basis, we update our analysis and estimates considering all available information, including the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings and advice of legal counsel. Changes in our assessment of whether a loss is probable, our estimate of the loss, or our determination of whether the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Changes in our assumptions regarding a particular matter or the effectiveness of our strategies related to legal and other proceedings could also have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. For all loss contingencies, until a matter is finally resolved, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the liability accrued for the matter and such amounts could be material. For income taxes, we have been audited in many jurisdictions and, from time to time, face challenges from the tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions that we have taken on our tax returns. Although we believe that our tax filing positions are reasonable and comply with applicable law, we regularly review our tax filing positions, especially in light of tax law or business practice changes, and we may change our positions or determine that previous positions should be amended, either of which could result in additional tax liabilities. The final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. 51 The evaluation of tax positions and recognition of income tax benefits require significant judgment and we consult with external tax and legal counsel, as appropriate. We consider the technical merits of our tax positions along with the applicable tax statutes, related interpretations and precedents and our expectation of the outcome of proceedings (or negotiations) with tax authorities. We recognize liabilities when we believe that uncertain positions may not be fully sustained upon audit by the tax authorities, including any related appeals or litigation processes. Liabilities recognized for uncertain tax positions are based on a two-step approach for recognition and measurement. First, we evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained based on its technical merits. Second, we measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Interest and penalties attributable to uncertain tax positions, if any, are recognized as a component of income tax expense. The tax benefits ultimately realized by us may be different than what is recorded in the financial statements due to future events such as our settling the matter with the tax authorities and our success in sustaining our tax positions. For additional information related to contingencies, see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. 52 Results of Operations Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 compared to the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period operating and financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units booked through our OTC brands by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked through our OTC brands by our customers, net of cancellations, and is widely used in the travel business. Our non-OTC brands (KAYAK and OpenTable) have different business metrics from those of our OTC brands and therefore search queries through KAYAK and restaurant reservations through OpenTable do not contribute to our gross bookings. Accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our services for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 were as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Room nights 127 223 (43.1) % 279 654 (57.2) % Rental car days 9 21 (55.6) % 23 60 (61.9) % Airline tickets 2 2 (9.3) % 4 6 (29.7) % Accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our services each declined for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which drove a substantial decline in new travel bookings and increased cancellation rates. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Agency $ 9,521 $ 18,118 (47.4) % $ 19,377 $ 56,433 (65.7) % Merchant 3,861 7,163 (46.1) % 8,705 19,297 (54.9) % Total $ 13,382 $ 25,281 (47.1) % $ 28,082 $ 75,730 (62.9) % Gross bookings decreased by 47.1% and 62.9% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 (decreased on a constant-currency basis by approximately 48% and 63%, respectively), almost entirely due to the 43.1% and 57.2% decline in accommodation room night reservations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively, as well as a decline in accommodation ADRs of approximately 8% and 14% on a constant-currency basis for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019. We believe that unit growth rates and growth in total gross bookings on a constant-currency basis, which excludes the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments from travelers for the travel services provided. Agency gross bookings decreased by 47.4% and 65.7% for the three and nine months ended 53 September 30, 2020, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, almost entirely due to a decrease in gross bookings from agency accommodation room night reservations at Booking.com. Merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we facilitate payments from travelers for the travel services provided. Merchant gross bookings decreased by 46.1% and 54.9% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, almost entirely due to a decrease in gross bookings from our merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com, agoda and priceline. Merchant gross bookings for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019, declined less than agency gross bookings due to stronger growth of merchant gross bookings early in the nine-month period as Booking.com had been expanding its merchant accommodation reservation services prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Revenues Online travel reservation services Substantially all of our revenues are generated by providing online travel reservation services, which facilitate online travel purchases between travel service providers and travelers. Revenues from online travel reservation services are classified into two categories: Agency. Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided. Agency revenues consist almost entirely of travel reservation commissions. Substantially all of our agency revenue is from Booking.com agency accommodation reservations. Merchant. Merchant revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided, generally at the time of booking. Merchant revenues include (1) travel reservation commissions and transaction net revenues (i.e., the amount charged to travelers less the amount owed to travel service providers) in connection with our merchant reservation services; (2) credit card processing rebates and customer processing fees; and (3) ancillary fees, including travel-related insurance revenues and certain global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees. Substantially all merchant revenues are derived from transactions where travelers book accommodation reservations or rental car reservations. Advertising and other revenues Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for (a) sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers and (b) advertising placements on its platforms; and (2) revenues earned by OpenTable for (a) restaurant reservation services (fees paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees for restaurant management services. Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Agency revenues $ 1,723 $ 3,435 (49.9) % $ 3,504 $ 7,991 (56.2) % Merchant revenues 837 1,313 (36.2) % 1,741 2,875 (39.4) % Advertising and other revenues 80 292 (72.7) % 313 861 (63.7) % Total revenues $ 2,640 $ 5,040 (47.6) % $ 5,558 $ 11,727 (52.6) % Total revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, decreased by 47.6% and 52.6%, respectively (decreased on a constant-currency basis by approximately 49% and 53%, respectively). A significant majority of the year-over-year decrease was related to revenues from our accommodation reservation services. Total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 were negatively impacted by a reduction in revenue of $42 million for refunds paid or estimated to be payable to travelers as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic where we have agreed to provide free cancellation for certain non-refundable reservations without a corresponding estimated expected recovery from the travel service providers. For the three months ended September 30, 2020, total revenues were positively impacted by $21 million due to recoveries from travel service providers and lower estimated payments to travelers (see Notes 1 and 2 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition, total revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 were negatively impacted by additional rebates of $96 million offered to travel service 54 providers meeting certain eligibility requirements under an incentive program that will end in 2020 (see Note 2 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Agency revenues decreased by 49.9% and 56.2% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, due to the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Merchant revenues decreased by 36.2% and 39.4% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, due primarily to decreases in gross bookings from our merchant accommodation reservation services and merchant rental car reservation services due to the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Advertising and other revenues decreased by 72.7% and 63.7%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in a decline in consumer demand for the travel and restaurant-related services offered by KAYAK and OpenTable. In addition, advertising and other revenue related to OpenTable has been further impacted by a program that waived fees payable by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service and subscription fees for many restaurants. Total revenues as a percentage of gross bookings was 19.7% for the three months ended September 30, 2020, as compared to 19.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2019. Total revenues as a percentage of gross bookings was 19.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, as compared to 15.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 due primarily to timing of booking versus travel as revenue benefited from travel early in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2020 before the COVID-19 pandemic, while gross bookings were negatively impacted by cancellations of bookings made in 2019. Our international businesses accounted for approximately $2.4 billion and $5.0 billion of our total revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively, compared to $4.6 billion and $10.6 billion for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively. Total revenues attributable to our international businesses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 decreased by 47.7% and 53.1%, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 (decreased on a constant-currency basis by approximately 49% and 53%, respectively). Total revenues attributable to our U.S. businesses decreased 47.0% and 48.3%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019. Operating Expenses Marketing expenses Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Marketing expenses $ 731 $ 1,415 (48.3) % $ 1,793 $ 3,975 (54.9) % % of Total revenues 27.7 % 28.1 % 32.3 % 33.9 % We rely on marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. Marketing expenses consist primarily of the costs of: (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; (4) offline and online brand marketing; and (5) other performance-based marketing and incentives. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, our marketing expense declined significantly due to reduced travel demand as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We adjust our marketing spend based on our growth and profitability objectives, as well as the travel demand and expected ROIs in our marketing channels. Marketing expense as a percentage of total revenues decreased for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 primarily due to actions we took to reduce our brand and performance marketing spend in response to the reduced travel demand. 55 Sales and Other Expenses Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Sales and other expenses $ 129 $ 276 (53.4) % $ 637 $ 739 (13.8) % % of Total revenues 4.9 % 5.5 % 11.5 % 6.3 % Sales and other expenses consist primarily of: (1) credit card and other payment processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) customer chargeback provisions and fraud prevention expenses associated with merchant transactions; (4) customer relations costs; and (5) provisions for expected credit losses, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables and prepayments to certain customers. For the three months ended September 30, 2020, sales and other expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, decreased compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019 due primarily to a decrease in expenses related to transactions processed on a merchant basis and a reduction in the provisions for credit loss expenses, as well as lower call center expenses and customer relations costs related to transactions processed on both an agency basis and merchant basis. Sales and other expenses decreased for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019, due primarily to a decrease in expenses related to transactions processed on a merchant basis, partially offset by an increase in expected credit loss expenses of $170 million p rimarily resulting from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic (see Notes 1 and 7 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Personnel Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Personnel $ 517 $ 566 (8.6) % $ 1,453 $ 1,686 (13.8) % % of Total revenues 19.6 % 11.2 % 26.2 % 14.4 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes, and employee health and other benefits. Personnel expenses decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to lower bonus accruals as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, reduced headcount as a result of the restructuring actions and attrition and $22 million of government aid benefit. Personnel expenses decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to $122 million of government aid benefit, as well as a decrease in stock-based compensation expense of $69 million and lower bonus accruals, both of which are impacted by reduced financial performance and reduced headcount as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Stock-based compensation expense was $80 million and $163 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively, compared to $79 million and $232 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019. Headcount decreased 14 % year-over-year to approximately 23,000 as of September 30, 2020, compared to approximately 26,500 as of September 30, 2019, primarily due to restructuring actions and attrition, as well as a general company-wide hiring freeze. General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2020 2019 2020 2019 General and administrative $ 148 $ 225 (34.1) % $ 453 $ 596 (24.2) % % of Total revenues 5.6 % 4.5 % 8.1 % 5.1 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) personnel-related expenses such as travel, relocation, recruiting and training expenses; (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses; and (4) indirect taxes such as travel transaction taxes and digital services taxes. General and administrative expenses decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three and nine months ended 56 September 30, 2019, due to lower personnel-related expenses associated with a general company-wide freeze on non-essential travel and entertainment and employee hiring due to the COVID-19 pandemic, lower indirect taxes, lower office and occupancy expenses due to employees working remotely, and lower professional service fees. Information Technology Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Information technology $ 71 $ 71 1.0 % $ 219 $ 206 6.4 % % of Total revenues 2.7 % 1.4 % 3.9 % 1.8 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) outsourced data center and cloud computing costs; (3) payments to contractors; and (4) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services. Information technology expenses increased during the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019, due to increased software license fees, partially offset by decreased data communications expenses. Information technology expenses increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019, due to increased software license fees and outsourced data center costs. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Depreciation and amortization $ 115 $ 117 (2.1) % $ 344 $ 352 (2.4) % % of Total revenues 4.3 % 2.3 % 6.2 % 3.0 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation of computer equipment; (3) amortization of internally-developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, as a result of decreased depreciation of computer equipment, amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of leasehold improvements, partially offset by increased internally-developed software amortization expenses. Restructuring and other exit costs Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Restructuring and other exit costs $ 41 $ N/A $ 75 $ N/A % of Total revenues 1.5 % N/A 1.4 % N/A During the three months ended September 30, 2020, we took restructuring actions at our Booking.com and priceline brands in response to the expected long-term impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, and as a result incurred restructuring charges amounting to $41 million. During the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we took restructuring actions at all our brands, and as a result incurred restructuring charges amounting to $75 million. The restructuring charges incurred during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, are primarily related to employee severance and benefits (see Note 14 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). 57 Impairment of Goodwill Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Impairment of goodwill $ 573 $ N/A $ 1,062 $ N/A % of Total revenues 21.7 % N/A 19.1 % N/A During the three months ended September 30, 2020, we recorded an impairment charge to goodwill related to OpenTable and KAYAK, which is not tax-deductible, of $573 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, the total impairment charge to goodwill related to OpenTable and KAYAK is $1.1 billion (see Note 8 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates included in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Interest income $ 5 $ 44 (87.3) % $ 49 $ 113 (56.4) % Interest expense (98) (70) 40.0 % (258) (204) 26.3 % Net gains (losses) on marketable equity securities 730 (49) (1,616.9) % 1,258 419 199.9 % Impairment of investment N/A (100) N/A Foreign currency transactions and other (117) 68 (272.0) % (149) 37 506.4 % Total $ 520 $ (7) (8,388.2) % $ 800 $ 365 119.0 % Interest income decreased for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to lower average invested balances and lower yields as well as increased usage of investments classified as cash equivalents. Interest expense increased for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes and Convertible Senior Notes issued in April 2020. Net gains on marketable equity securities for the three months ended September 30, 2020 are principally related to the gains on our equity investment in Meituan. Net losses on marketable equity securities for the three months ended September 30, 2019 are principally related to the losses on our equity investments in Trip.com Group, partially offset by the gains on our equity investment in Meituan. Net gains on marketable equity securities for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 are principally related to the gains on our equity investment in Meituan (see Note 5 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). Impairment of investment for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 is related to our investment in Didi Chuxing recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2020 (see Notes 5 and 6 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates included in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information). Foreign currency transactions and other includes foreign currency gains or losses on derivative contracts, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, including costs related to foreign currency transactions, and net realized gains or losses on investments and other income or expense. Foreign currency transactions and other for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 includes foreign currency transaction losses of $121 million and $117 million, respectively, which includes losses of $117 million and $139 million , respectively, related to the portion of our Euro-denominated debt that was not designated as a net investment 58 hedge. In addition, foreign currency transactions and other for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 includes foreign currency losses on derivative contracts of $31 million. Foreign currency transactions and other for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 includes foreign currency losses on derivative contracts of $21 million and $26 million, respectively, and foreign currency transaction gains of $88 million and $50 million, respectively. The foreign currency transactions gains for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 includes gains of $72 million and $54 million, respectively, related to the portion of our Euro-denominated debt that was not designated as a net investment hedge. In addition, foreign currency transactions and other included net realized losses of $1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and net realized gains of $11 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 from sales of investments in debt securities. Income Taxes Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2020 2019 2020 2019 Income tax expense $ 34 $ 413 (91.7) % $ 98 $ 844 (88.4) % % of income before income taxes 4.1 % 17.5 % 30.4 % 18.6 % Our 2020 effective tax rates differ from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to the non-deductible goodwill impairment charges related to OpenTable and KAYAK, the valuation allowance recorded against the deferred tax assets generated from the impairment of certain long-term investments and an increase in unrecognized tax benefits, partially offset by the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax (discussed below). Our 2019 effective tax rates differ from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax (discussed below), partially offset by the effect of higher international tax rates. Our effective tax rate was lower for the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to certain lower non-deductible expenses, partially offset by discrete U.S. tax charges related to unrealized gains on equity securities and the non-deductible goodwill impairment charge related to OpenTable and KAYAK. Our effective tax rate was higher for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to the non-deductible goodwill impairment charges related to OpenTable and KAYAK, discrete U.S. tax charges related to unrealized gains on equity securities, an increase in unrecognized tax benefits and the valuation allowance recorded against the deferred tax asset generated from the impairment of certain long-term investments, partially offset by certain non-deductible expenses. According to Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying innovative activities is taxed at a rate of 7% ("Innovation Box Tax") rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment, which had a beneficial impact on the effective tax rate for these periods. In 2019, the Dutch government approved a reduction in its corporate income tax rate from 25% to 21.7%, effective in 2021. However, the Dutch government has published proposals to abolish this rate reduction and maintain the statutory rate at 25%. Furthermore, the Dutch government has proposed an increase in the Innovation Box Tax rate from 7% to 9%, which, if enacted, could be effective beginning in 2021. While we expect Booking.com to continue to qualify for Innovation Box Tax treatment with respect to a portion of its earnings for the foreseeable future, the loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit, whether due to a change in tax law or a determination by the Dutch government that Booking.com's activities are not innovative or for any other reason, could substantially increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows in future periods. See Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " We may not be able to maintain our 'Innovation Box Tax' benefit. " 59 Liquidity and Capital Resources The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting economic conditions and government orders have resulted in a material decrease in consumer spending and an unprecedented decline in travel and restaurant activities and consumer demand for related services. Our financial results and prospects are almost entirely dependent on the sale of such travel and restaurant-related services. The extent of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects is highly uncertain and will ultimately depend on future developments. These include, but are not limited to, the severity, extent and duration of the pandemic and its impact on the travel and restaurant industries and consumer spending more broadly. Even if economic and operating conditions for our business improve, we cannot predict the long-term effects of the pandemic on our business or the travel and restaurant industries as a whole. If the travel and restaurant industries are fundamentally changed by the COVID-19 pandemic in ways that are detrimental to our operating model, our business may continue to be adversely affected even as the broader global economy recovers. Our continued access to sources of liquidity depends on multiple factors, including global economic conditions, the condition of global financial markets, the availability of sufficient amounts of financing, our ability to meet debt covenant requirements, our operating performance and our credit ratings. If our credit ratings were to be downgraded, or financing sources were to ascribe higher risk to our rating levels or our industry, our access to capital and the cost of any financing would be negatively impacted. There is no guarantee that additional debt financing will be available in the future to fund our obligations, or that it will be available on commercially reasonable terms, in which case we may need to seek other sources of funding. In addition, the terms of future debt agreements could include more restrictive covenants than those we are currently subject to, which could restrict our business operations. For more information, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " Our liquidity, credit ratings and ongoing access to capital could be materially and negatively affected by the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic." At September 30, 2020, we had $14.9 billion in cash, cash equivalents and long-term investments, of which approximately $5.9 billion is held by our international subsidiaries. Cash, cash equivalents and long-term investments held by our international subsidiaries are denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars, Hong Kong Dollars and Euros. Cash equivalents and long-term investments are principally comprised of money market funds, time deposits and certificates of deposit, convertible debt securities of Trip.com Group, Meituan equity securities and our investments in private companies (see Notes 5 and 6 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). In May 2020, our May 2015 investment of $250 million in Trip.com Group's convertible notes was repaid upon maturity. During the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we realized $2.2 billion in cash from the sales and maturity of our investments in government and corporate debt securities. In addition, we sold our entire investment in Trip.com Group ADSs, with a cost basis of $655 million for $525 million. At September 30, 2020, we had a remaining transition tax liability of $1.0 billion as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), which included $921 million reported as "Long-term U.S. transition tax liability" and $89 million included in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. This liability will be paid over the next six years. In accordance with the Tax Act, generally, future repatriation of our international cash will not be subject to a U.S. federal income tax liability as a dividend, but will be subject to U.S. state income taxes and international withholding taxes, which have been accrued by us. In August 2019, we entered into a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $80 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $100 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. The proceeds of loans made under the facility can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, share repurchases and debt repayments. At September 30, 2020, there were no borrowings outstanding and $4 million of letters of credit issued under the facility. The revolving credit facility contains a maximum leverage ratio covenant, compliance with which is a condition to our ability to borrow thereunder. In April 2020, we amended the revolving credit facility, pursuant to which the maximum leverage ratio covenant was suspended through and including the three months ending March 31, 2021, and was replaced with a $4.5 billion minimum liquidity covenant based on unrestricted cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and unused capacity under the revolving credit facility. In October 2020, we further amended the revolving credit facility to extend the suspension of the maximum leverage ratio covenant and the related replacement with the minimum liquidity covenant through and including the three months ending March 31, 2022 and increase the permitted maximum leverage ratio from and including the three months ending June 30, 2022 through and including the three months ending March 31, 2023. We agreed not to declare or make any cash distribution and not to repurchase any of our shares unless (i) prior to the delivery of financial statements for the three 60 months ending June 30, 2022, we have at least $6.0 billion of liquidity on a pro forma basis, based on unrestricted cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and unused capacity under this revolving credit facility and (ii) after the delivery of financial statements for the three months ending June 30, 2022, we are in compliance on a pro forma basis with the maximum leverage ratio covenant then in effect. Such restriction ends upon delivery of financial statements required for the three months ending June 30, 2023 , or we have the ability to terminate this restriction earlier if we demonstrate compliance with the original maximum leverage ratio covenant in the revolving credit facility. Beginning with the quarter ending June 30, 2022, the minimum liquidity covenant will cease to apply and the maximum leverage ratio covenant, as increased, will again be in effect. At September 30, 2020, we were in compliance with the minimum liquidity covenant. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet either the minimum liquidity covenant or the maximum leverage ratio covenant, as applicable, at any particular time, and our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility depends on compliance with the applicable covenant. Further, the lenders have the right to require repayment of any amounts borrowed under the facility if we are not in compliance with the applicable covenant (see Note 9 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). As a result, we have not taken into account the availability o f the revolving credit facility in evaluating our ability to meet our minimum liquidity requirements. In June 2020, in connection with the maturity of our Convertible Senior Notes due June 2020, we paid $1.0 billion to satisfy the aggregate principal amount due and paid an additional $245 million in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount. In addition, our Convertible Senior Notes due September 2021 (the 2021 Notes) are reported as current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at September 30, 2020. The holders will have the right to convert all or any portion of the 2021 Notes beginning on June 15, 2021, regardless of our stock price (see Note 9 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). In April 2020, we issued Senior Notes due April 13, 2025 with an interest rate of 4.10% for an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion, Senior Notes due April 13, 2027 with an interest rate of 4.50% for an aggregate principal amount of $750 million and Senior Notes due April 13, 2030 with an interest rate of 4.625% for an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion. In addition, in April 2020, we issued $863 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due May 1, 2025 with an interest rate of 0.75%. The proceeds from the issuance of these Senior Notes and Convertible Senior Notes can be used for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of debt, including the repayment, at maturity or upon conversion prior thereto, of our outstanding Convertible Senior Notes (see Note 9 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). During the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we repurchased 682,373 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $1.3 billion. At September 30, 2020, we had a remaining aggregate amount of $10.4 billion authorized by our Board of Directors to repurchase our common stock. We have not repurchased any shares since March 2020 under this stock repurchase authorization and do not intend to initiate any repurchases under this authorization until we have better visibility into the shape and timing of a recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. See Note 9 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the impact of the October 2020 credit facility amendment on our ability to repurchase shares. In September 2016, we signed a turnkey agreement to construct an office building for Booking.coms future headquarters in the Netherlands. Upon signing this agreement, we paid 43 million Euros ($48 million) for the acquired land-use rights. In addition, since signing the turnkey agreement we have made several progress payments principally related to the construction of the building. As of September 30, 2020, we have paid 195 million Euros ($224 million) and had a remaining obligation of 66 million Euros ($78 million) at September 30, 2020, related to the turnkey agreement. The contractual obligation was reduced by 9 million Euros ($10 million) during the three months ended June 30, 2020. The remaining obligation will be paid through mid-2022, when we anticipate construction will be complete. In addition to the turnkey agreement, we have a remaining obligation at September 30, 2020 to pay 70 million Euros ($82 million) over the remaining initial term of the acquired land lease, which expires in 2065. We have made and will continue to make additional capital expenditures to fit out and furnish the office space. At September 30, 2020, we have committed 30 million Euros ($35 million) to vendors to fit out and furnish the office space. See Note 13 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our commitments and contingencies. At September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, we had lease obligations of $643 million and $690 million, respectively. Additionally, at September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, we had, in the aggregate, $103 million and $79 million, respectively, of non-cancellable purchase obligations individually greater than $10 million. At September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019 there were $178 million and $160 million, respectively, of standby letters of credit and bank guarantees issued on behalf of us, primarily related to payment guarantees to third-party payment processors. 61 We have taken and are taking actions to improve our liquidity including, but not limited to, raising additional capital through the issuance of Senior Notes and Convertible Senior Notes as disclosed above, reducing capital expenditures and operating expenses by significantly reducing marketing spend worldwide and working to eliminate non-essential operating costs, monitoring the financial health of our partners, suppliers and other third-party relationships, implementing a general company-wide hiring freeze and initiating certain personnel actions such as furloughs and workforce reductions. However, whether as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise, if we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plans, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to compete or our future growth prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, revenue growth or sustained profitability may not be realized, and future borrowings or equity sales may not be available in amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies or repay our indebtedness. Cash Flow Analysis Net cash provided by operating activities decreased for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic to our businesses and financial results, partially offset by the impact of the payment of $403 million in 2019 to French tax authorities to preserve our right in order to contest certain tax assessments in court (see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $662 million, resulting from a net income of $224 million and a favorable impact from adjustments for non-cash items of $1.2 billion, partially offset by an unfavorable net change in working capital and other long-term assets and liabilities of $721 million. Non-cash items were principally associated with net gains on marketable equity securities, impairment of goodwill, depreciation and amortization, provision for expected credit losses and chargebacks, stock-based compensation expense and other stock-based payments, unrealized foreign currency transaction losses on Euro-denominated debt and operating lease amortization. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, prepaid expenses and other current assets decreased by $230 million, primarily due to the refund for overpayment from a vendor and lower prepayment to third-party payment processors due to decreases in business volumes as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, accounts receivable decreased by $554 million and deferred merchant bookings and other current liabilities decreased by $1.6 billion primarily due to decreases in business volumes as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $3.8 billion, resulting from net income of $3.7 billion and a favorable impact from adjustments for non-cash items of $450 million, partially offset by an unfavorable net change in working capital and other long-term assets and liabilities of $356 million. Non-cash items were principally associated with net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and operating lease amortization. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $247 million, primarily related to the prepayments of the Netherlands income taxes, net of utilization during the period, of $142 million to earn prepayment discounts and an increase in prepayments to suppliers of $67 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, accounts receivable increased by $442 million primarily related to increases in business volumes. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, deferred merchant bookings and other current liabilities increased by $794 million primarily related to growth in Booking.com's merchant transactions and increases in business volumes. Due to typical seasonality of our business, our gross bookings and revenues are generally higher in the third quarter of the year than in the fourth quarter of the year which typically results in higher accounts receivable, deferred merchant bookings, accounts payable and accrued expenses at September 30 compared to December 31. Net change in other long-term assets and liabilities of $461 million was primarily due to the increase in other long-term assets related to the payment of $403 million to French tax authorities in order to preserve our right to contest the assessments in court (see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Net cash provided by investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $2.7 billion, principally resulting from the proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $3.0 billion, net of purchases of $72 million. Net cash provided by investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $7.0 billion, principally resulting from the proceeds from sales and maturities of investmen ts of $7.9 billion, net of purchases of $0.7 billion. Cash invested in the purchase of property and equipment was $222 million and $281 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.5 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, almost entirely resulting from the proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $4.1 billion, partially offset by payments for the 62 repurchase of common stock of $1.3 billion and payments for the conversion of convertible notes of $1.2 billion. Net cash used in financing activities was $6.9 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, almost entirely resulting from payments for the repurchase of common stock of $6.8 billion. Contingencies French tax authorities conducted audits of Booking.com for the years 2003 through 2012 and years 2013 through 2015 and currently are conducting an audit for the years 2016 through 2018. In December 2015, the French tax authorities issued Booking.com assessments for unpaid income and value added taxes related to tax years 2006 through 2012 for approximately 356 million Euros, the majority of which represents penalties and interest. The assessments assert that Booking.com had a permanent establishment in France. In December 2019, the French tax authorities issued an additional assessment of 70 million Euros ($82 million), including interest and penalties, for the 2013 year asserting that Booking.com had taxable income attributable to a permanent establishment in France. The French tax authorities also have issued assessments totaling 39 million Euros ($46 million), including interest and penalties, for certain tax years between 2011 and 2015 on Booking.com's French subsidiary asserting that the subsidiary did not receive sufficient compensation for the services it rendered to Booking.com in the Netherlands. As a result of a formal demand from the French tax authorities for payment of the amounts assessed against Booking.com for the years 2006 through 2012, in January 2019, we paid the assessments of approximately 356 million Euros ($403 million) in order to preserve our right to contest those assessments in court. The payment, which is included in "Other assets, net" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, does not constitute an admission that we owe the taxes and will be refunded (with interest) to us to the extent we prevail. In December 2019 and October 2020, we initiated court proceedings with respect to certain of the assessments. Although we believe that Booking.com has been, and continues to be, in compliance with French tax law, and we are contesting the assessments, during the three months ended September 30, 2020, we contacted the French tax authorities regarding the potential to achieve resolution of the matter through a settlement. After assessing several potential outcomes and potential settlement amounts and terms, an unrecognized tax benefit in the amount of 50 million Euros ($59 million) has been recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2020, of which the majority has been included as a partial reduction to the tax payment recorded in "Other Assets, net" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at September 30, 2020. Additional assessments could result when the French tax authorities complete the outstanding audits. For additional information related to the French tax assessments, see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " Beginning in 2014, Booking.com received several letters from the Netherlands Pension Fund for the Travel Industry (Reiswerk) (BPF) claiming that Booking.com is required to participate in the mandatory pension scheme of the BPF with retroactive effect to 1999, which has a higher contribution rate than the pension scheme in which Booking.com is currently participating. BPF instituted legal proceedings against Booking.com and in 2016 the District Court of Amsterdam rejected all of BPFs claims. BPF appealed the decision to the Court of Appeal, and, in May 2019, the Court of Appeal also rejected all of BPFs claims, in each case by ruling that Booking.com does not meet the definition of a travel intermediary for purposes of the mandatory pension scheme. BPF has appealed to the Netherlands Supreme Court. In October 2020, the Dutch Advocate General issued an opinion to the Supreme Court stating that the Dutch Advocate General believes the decision of the Court of Appeal to be incorrect based on her interpretation of the pension scheme requirements. We have submitted to the Supreme Court a response to the Advocate General's opinion. While we continue to believe that we are in compliance with our pension obligations and that the Dutch Supreme Court should uphold the ruling of the Court of Appeal, based on the significant influence the Dutch Advocate Generals opinion typically has on the Supreme Court, we have reevaluated the probability of a loss and believes it is probable that we have incurred a loss related to this matter. We expect the Dutch Supreme Court to rule in the first quarter of 2021. In the event the Supreme Court overturns the decision of the Court of Appeal and remands the case to a lower court, we intend to pursue a number of defenses in any subsequent proceedings and may ultimately prevail in whole or in part. We are not able to reasonably estimate a loss or a range of loss because the litigation is ongoing and there are significant factual and legal questions yet to be determined. As a result, as of September 30, 2020, we have not recorded a liability in connection with a potential adverse outcome to this litigation. However, if Booking.com were to ultimately lose and all of BPFs claims were to be accepted (including retroactivity to 1999), we estimate that as of September 30, 2020, the maximum loss, not including any potential interest or penalties, would be approximately $265 million. Such estimated potential loss increases as Booking.com continues not to contribute to the BPF and depends on Booking.coms applicable employee compensation after September 30, 2020. For additional information related to the pension matter and our other contingent liabilities, see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. 63 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At September 30, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Sections of this Form 10-Q including, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above and the Risk Factors contained in Part II Item 1A hereof, contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "aims," "seeks," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.