Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements " at the end of this Item 2. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, " this discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in " Risk Factors " and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. The information on our websites is not a part of this Quarterly Report and is not incorporated herein by reference. We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Overview Our mission is to help people experience the world. We aim to achieve our mission to help people experience the world through global leadership in online travel and restaurant reservation and related services by: providing consumers with the best choices and prices at any time, in any place, on any device; making it easy for people to find, book and experience their travel desires; and providing platforms, tools and insights to our business partners to help them be successful. We operate six primary brands: Booking.com - the worlds leading brand for booking online accommodation reservations, based on room nights booked. priceline - a leading hotel, rental car, airline ticket and vacation package reservation service in the United States. KAYAK - a leading meta-search service allowing consumers to easily search and compare travel itineraries and prices, including airline ticket, accommodation and rental car reservation information, from hundreds of travel websites at once. agoda.com - a leading accommodation reservation service catering primarily to consumers in the Asia-Pacific region. Rentalcars.com - a leading worldwide rental car reservation service. OpenTable - a leading provider of restaurant reservation and information services to consumers and restaurant reservation management and customer acquisition services to restaurants. Results for KAYAK include the Momondo Group since it was acquired in July 2017. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands collectively as "Booking Holdings," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, Rentalcars.com (which began operating as part of Booking.com on January 1, 2018) and agoda.com and the international businesses of KAYAK and OpenTable. This classification is independent of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while using our services or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant. For example, a reservation made through Booking.com at a hotel in New York by a consumer in the United States is part of our international results. During the year ended December 31, 2017 , our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 89% of our consolidated gross profit. We derive substantially all of our revenue from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars and other travel services on an agency basis; Transaction revenues on a merchant basis and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car, airline ticket, attractions and in-stay services and vacation package reservation services; Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to online travel companies ("OTCs") and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; 37 Reservation revenues paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation services, subscription fees for restaurant reservation management services provided by OpenTable; and Ancillary revenues including travel insurance fees and global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees, in each case related to certain of our travel services. Our priceline brand offers merchant Name Your Own Price opaque travel services, which were previously recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis with the amount remitted to the travel service providers reported as cost of revenues. Under the current revenue standard, Name Your Own Price revenues are reported on a net basis with the amount remitted to the travel service providers recorded as an offset in merchant revenues. Therefore, for periods beginning after December 31, 2017, we no longer present "Cost of revenues" or "Gross profit" in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Total revenues for periods beginning after December 31, 2017 are comparable to gross profit reported in prior periods. For further information on the adoption of the current revenue standard, see Note 2 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. Trends Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices and the growth of travel overall, including in higher growth emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America. We also believe this growth is the result of the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to add accommodations to our travel reservation services, increase and improve content, build distribution and improve the consumer experience on our websites and mobile apps, as well as consistently and effectively marketing our brands through performance and brand marketing efforts. These year-over-year growth rates have generally decelerated. Given the size of our accommodation reservation business, we expect that our year-over-year growth rates will generally continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate and there may be periods of acceleration from time to time. Our international business represents the substantial majority of our financial results, and we expect our operating results and other financial metrics to continue to be largely driven by international performance. The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States, and recent international online travel growth rates have exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. Over the long term, we expect that international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. Our growth has primarily been generated by our worldwide accommodation reservation service brand, Booking.com, which is our most significant brand, and has been due, in part, to the availability of a large and growing number of instantly bookable properties through Booking.com. Booking.com included approximately 1,925,000 properties on its website at June 30, 2018 , consisting of approximately 425,000 hotels, motels and resorts and approximately 1,500,000 homes, apartments and other unique places to stay, compared to approximately 1,340,000 properties (including approximately 365,000 hotels, motels and resorts and approximately 975,000 homes, apartments, and other unique places to stay) at June 30, 2017 . Booking.com categorizes properties listed on its website as either (a) hotels, motels and resorts, which groups together more traditional accommodation types (including hostels, resorts, inns and motels), or (b) homes, apartments and other unique places to stay, also referred to as alternative accommodations, which encompasses all other types of accommodations, including homes, apartments, villas and beyond. We intend to continue to invest in adding accommodations available for reservation on our platforms, such as hotels, motels, resorts, homes, apartments and other unique places to stay. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly-penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts). Because alternative accommodations are often either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, these properties generally represent more limited booking opportunities than hotels, motels and resorts, which generally have more units to rent per property. Further, alternative accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons, weather or other factors or may not be available at peak times due to use by the property owners. We may also experience lower profit margins with respect to these properties due to certain additional costs related to offering these accommodations on our websites. As we increase our alternative accommodation business, these different characteristics could negatively impact our profit margins; and, to the extent these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our websites, we expect that our gross bookings growth 38 rate and property growth rate will continue to diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of alternative accommodation properties increases, the number of reservations per property will likely continue to decrease. We believe that continuing to expand the number and variety of accommodations available through our services, in particular Booking.com, will help us to continue to grow our accommodation reservation business. As part of our strategy to increase the number and variety of accommodations available on Booking.com, Booking.com is increasingly processing transactions on a merchant basis where it receives payments on behalf of customers. This allows Booking.com to process transactions for properties that do not accept credit cards and to increase its ability to offer secure and flexible transaction terms to consumers, such as the form and timing of payment. We believe that adding these types of properties and service offerings will benefit our customers and our gross bookings, room night and earnings growth rates. However, this results in additional expenses for personnel, payment processing, chargebacks and other expenses related to these transactions, which are recorded in "Personnel" and "Sales and other expenses" in our Unaudited Statements of Operations. As this business continues to grow, we may experience a significant increase in these expenses, which would negatively impact our operating margins. Perceived or actual adverse economic conditions, including slow, slowing or negative economic growth, rising unemployment rates and weakening currencies and concerns over government responses such as higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. Further, political uncertainty, conditions or events, such as the United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union ("Brexit") and concerns regarding certain E.U. members with sovereign debt default risks can also negatively affect consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates, increased cancellation rates and weaker trends in hotel average daily rates ("ADRs") across many regions of the world, particularly in those countries that appear to be most affected by economic and political uncertainties, which we believe are due at least in part to these macro-economic conditions and concerns. For more detail, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance. " These and other macro-economic uncertainties, such as geopolitical tensions and differing central bank monetary policies, have led to significant volatility in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and other currencies. Significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, stock markets and oil prices can also impact consumer travel behavior. As noted earlier, our international business represents a substantial majority of our financial results. Therefore, because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international businesses are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. As a result of currency exchange rate changes, our foreign-currency-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses and net income are higher as expressed in U.S. Dollars for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 . For example, total revenues in 2018 compared to gross profit in 2017 from our international operations grew 20.7% and 23.1% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , but, without the positive impact of changes in currency exchange rates, grew year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately 16% and 17% , respectively. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins have not been significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. The aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated long-term debt, and accrued interest thereon, provide a hedge against the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on the net assets of certain of our Euro functional currency subsidiaries (see Note 6 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). For more information, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates." We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on the translation of our consolidated operating results into U.S. Dollars. However, such derivative instruments are short-term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact growth rates for our gross bookings or revenues (see Note 6 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). We compete globally with both online and traditional providers of travel and restaurant reservation and related services. The markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive and current and new competitors can launch new services to compete with us at relatively low cost. Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple, Alibaba, Tencent, Amazon and Facebook, have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do, and they may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to enable them to compete more effectively with us. For example, Google has entered various aspects of the online travel market, including by 39 establishing a flight meta-search product (Google Flights) and a hotel meta-search business (Google Hotel Ads) that are growing rapidly, as well as its "Book on Google" reservation functionality and its Google Trips app. Our markets are also subject to rapidly changing conditions, including technological developments, consumer behavior changes, regulatory changes and travel service provider consolidation. We expect these trends to continue. For example, we have experienced a significant shift of both direct and indirect business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. In addition, the revenue earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay, have lower ADRs and are not made as far in advance. For more detail regarding the competitive trends and risks we face, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. " and " Consumer adoption and use of mobile devices creates new challenges and may enable device companies such as Apple to compete directly with us. " and " We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological changes. " Although we believe that providing an extensive collection of properties, excellent customer service and an intuitive, easy to use website or mobile experience are important factors influencing a consumer's decision to make a reservation, for many consumers, particularly in certain markets, the price of the travel service is the primary factor determining whether a consumer will book a reservation. We have observed an increase in promotional pricing to closed user groups (such as loyalty program participants or consumers with registered accounts), including through mobile apps. In addition, many large hotel chains and OTCs have launched initiatives, such as increased discounting and incentives, to encourage consumers to book accommodations through their websites. Discounting and couponing coupled with a high degree of consumer shopping behavior is particularly common in Asian markets. In some cases, our competitors are willing to make little or no profit on a transaction, or offer travel services at a loss, in order to gain market share. We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through marketing and promotional campaigns. Both our performance and brand marketing expenses have increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 , our total performance marketing expense was approximately $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion , respectively, primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services and affiliate marketing to generate traffic to our websites. Growth of some of these channels has slowed. We also invested approximately $225 million and $211 million in brand marketing for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively, primarily related to costs associated with producing and airing television advertising, online video advertising (for example, on YouTube and Facebook), online display advertising and other brand marketing. We intend to continue a strategy of promoting brand awareness through both online and offline marketing efforts, including by expanding brand campaigns into additional markets, which may significantly increase our brand marketing expenses in 2018. We have observed increased brand marketing by OTCs, meta-search services and travel service providers, particularly in North America and Europe, which may make our brand marketing efforts more expensive and less effective. Performance marketing efficiency, expressed as performance marketing expense as a percentage of total revenues in 2018 or as a percentage of gross profit in 2017, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and the extent to which consumers come directly to our websites or mobile apps for bookings. For example, competition for desired rankings in search results and/or a decline in ad clicks by consumers could increase our costs per click and reduce our performance marketing efficiency. Over time, we have also experienced increasing cancellation rates, which negatively affects our marketing efficiency and results of operations. Changes by Google in how it presents travel search results, including by placing its own offerings at or near the top of search results, or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results may be competitively disadvantageous to us and may impact our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites. Similarly, changes by our other search and meta-search partners in how they present travel search results or the manner in which they conduct the auction for placement among search results may be competitively disadvantageous to us and may impact our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites. We have observed a long-term trend of decreasing performance marketing returns on investment ("ROIs"), a trend we expect to continue, though the rate of decrease may fluctuate and there may be periods of stable or increasing ROIs from time to time. In addition, we may from time to time, as we did in the third and fourth quarters of 2017 and in the first and second quarters of 2018, pursue a strategy of improving our performance marketing ROIs, which could negatively impact growth and positively impact performance marketing efficiency. When evaluating our performance marketing spend, we consider several factors for each channel, such as the customer experience on the advertising platform, the incrementality of the traffic we receive and the anticipated repeat rate from a particular platform, as well as other factors. Our strategy of improving performance marketing ROIs, along with factors such as competitors' actions in the bidding environment, the amount of marketing invested by these channels to generate demand and overall performance platform traffic growth trends, which have shown volatility and long-term deceleration of growth rates, may also impact growth rates for performance marketing channels. 40 See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We rely on performance and brand marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites and grow our business. " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in internet search engine algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " We estimate our effective tax rate for 2018 to be approximately 18-21%, which represents our best estimate of our tax expense including the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), estimated U.S. state income taxes and international withholding taxes on our international earnings, and an increase in the Innovation Box Tax rate in the Netherlands from 5% to 7%. The provisions of the Tax Act are broad and complex, and to date there has been little interpretation or clarification of the act from U.S. tax authorities. As a result, our estimate is based on our current understanding and could change as more information becomes available. See Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " and " We may not be able to maintain our 'Innovation Box Tax' benefit. " The national competition authorities ("NCAs") of many governments have conducted or are conducting investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. Some countries have adopted or proposed legislation that could also affect business practices within the online travel industry. For example, France and Italy, among others, have adopted legislation making price parity agreements illegal and similar legislation is under consideration in other countries. Also, a number of NCAs are investigating or conducting information-gathering exercises in respect of compliance by OTCs with consumer protection laws, investigating practices such as display of search results and search ranking algorithms, claims regarding discounts, disclosure of charges and availability, and similar messaging. For more information on these investigations and their potential effects on our business, see Note 12 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " As the size of our business grows, we may become increasingly subject to the scrutiny of anti-trust, competition and consumer protection regulators. " In addition to the price parity and consumer protection investigations, from time to time NCAs, other governmental agencies, trade associations and private parties take legal actions, including commencing legal proceedings, that may affect our operations. For example, in March 2017, in connection with a lawsuit begun in 2015 by the Association of Turkish Travel Agencies claiming that Booking.com is required to meet certain registration requirements in Turkey, a Turkish court ordered Booking.com to suspend offering Turkish hotels and accommodations to Turkish residents. Although Booking.com is appealing the order and believes it to be without basis, this order has had a negative impact on the Company's growth and results of operations, and is expected to continue to negatively impact the Company's results of operations. In general, increased regulatory focus on online businesses, including online travel businesses like ours, could result in increased compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. Seasonality A meaningful amount of our gross bookings is generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. However, historically we generally have not recognized revenue from these bookings until the travel is completed (at "check-out") or for periods beginning after December 31, 2017 when the travel begins (at "check-in"), which, in either case, can be in a quarter other than when the reservation is booked. In contrast, we expense the substantial majority of our marketing activities as the expense is incurred, which, in the case of performance marketing in particular, is typically in the quarter in which associated reservations are booked. As a result of this potential timing difference between when we record marketing expense and when we recognize associated revenue, we have historically experienced our highest levels of profitability in the third quarter of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation check-outs for the year for our European and North American businesses. We expect this to continue under our new revenue recognition policy, under which we recognize revenue at check-in. The first quarter of the year is typically our lowest level of profitability and may experience additional volatility in earnings growth rates due to these and other seasonal timing factors. For our Asia-Pacific business, we experience the highest levels of accommodation bookings in the third and fourth quarters of the year, and the highest levels of accommodation check-ins and check-outs in the fourth quarter. As the relative growth rates for these businesses fluctuate, the quarterly distribution of our operating results may vary. In recent years, we experienced an expansion of the booking window (the average time between the making of a travel reservation and the travel), which impacts the relationship between our gross bookings (recognized at the time of booking) and our revenues (recognized at the time of check-out or, for periods beginning after December 31, 2017, at the time of check-in). Recently, we have seen a modest contraction of the booking window. Future changes in the booking window may cause additional differences between our gross bookings growth rates and revenue growth rates. Upon adoption of the current revenue standard, for periods beginning after December 31, 2017, the timing of revenue recognition for travel reservation services changed. For example, revenue for accommodation reservation services, which was primarily recognized at check-out under the previous revenue standard, changed to be recognized at check-in under the new revenue standard. We estimate that total revenues recognized at check-in will be approximately 1% lower in the third quarter of 41 2018 and approximately 5% higher in the fourth quarter of 2018 compared to the same quarters in 2018 if revenues were recognized at check-out. In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2017, our second quarter year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were positively impacted by Easter falling in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2016. Conversely, our first quarter 2017 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were adversely impacted by Easter falling in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2016. Similar to 2017, in 2018 Easter fell in the second quarter instead of the first quarter. However, because Easter was on April 1, 2018 and a meaningful amount of Easter travel commenced in the week leading up to Easter (i.e., during the first quarter), Easter had a positive effect on our first quarter 2018 year-over-year growth rates and had a negative effect on our second quarter 2018 year-over-year growth rates due to the change in our revenue recognition policy from "check-out" to "check-in." The timing of other holidays such as Ramadan can also impact our quarterly year-over-year growth rates. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable marketing expense. In addition, revenue growth is typically less impacted by decelerating gross bookings growth in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters, but any such deceleration would negatively impact revenue growth in subsequent periods. Conversely, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate accelerates, our operating margins are typically negatively impacted by relatively more variable marketing expense. In addition, revenue growth is typically less impacted by accelerating gross bookings growth in the near term, but any such acceleration would positively impact revenue growth in subsequent periods as a portion of the revenue recognized from such gross bookings will occur in future quarters. Other Factors We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel-related services. Factors beyond our control, such as oil prices, stock market volatility, terrorist attacks, unusual or extreme weather or natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, droughts and volcanic eruptions, travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, Zika and MERS, political instability, changes in economic conditions, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, changes in trade or immigration policies or travel-related accidents, can disrupt travel or otherwise result in declines in travel demand. Because these events or concerns, and the full impact of their effects, are largely unpredictable, they can dramatically and suddenly affect travel behavior by consumers, and therefore demand for our services, which can adversely affect our business and results of operations. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance. " We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, acquisitions. As the overall size of our business has grown, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of services and technologies, including services and technologies that may be outside of our historical core business, and our ability to keep pace may slow. Potential competitors, such as emerging start-ups, may be able to innovate and focus on developing a particularly new product or service faster than we can or may foresee consumer need for new services or technologies before us. Some of our larger competitors or potential competitors have more resources or more established or diversified relationships with consumers than we do, and they could use these advantages in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, entering or investing in travel reservation businesses, investing in research and development, and competing aggressively for highly-skilled employees. Our goal is to grow revenue and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain and highly competitive environment in which we operate makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain revenue growth and profitability. 42 Results of Operations Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2018 compared to the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units booked through our OTC brands by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked through our OTC brands by our customers, net of cancellations, and is widely used in the travel business. Our non-OTC brands (KAYAK and OpenTable) have different business metrics from those of our OTC brands and therefore search queries through KAYAK and restaurant reservations through OpenTable do not contribute to our gross bookings. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Agency $ 19,090 $ 17,947 6.4 % $ 39,666 $ 36,087 9.9 % Merchant 4,807 2,850 68.6 % 9,240 5,396 71.2 % Total $ 23,896 $ 20,797 14.9 % $ 48,906 $ 41,484 17.9 % Gross bookings increased by 14.9% and 17.9% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 11% and 12%, respectively), almost entirely due to growth of 12.0% and 12.6% , respectively, in accommodation room night reservations and the beneficial impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Accommodation ADRs on a constant-currency basis were relatively unchanged for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 . For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , foreign exchange rate fluctuations significantly benefited gross bookings growth in U.S. Dollars. We believe that unit growth rates and growth in total gross bookings on a constant-currency basis, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not receive payments from travelers for the travel services provided. Agency gross bookings increased by 6.4% and 9.9% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , almost entirely due to the growth in gross bookings from Booking.com agency accommodation room night reservations. Merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we receive payments from travelers for the travel services provided. Merchant gross bookings increased by 68.6% and 71.2% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , almost entirely due to growth in gross bookings from our merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com and agoda.com. 43 Accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our services for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Room nights 190.5 170.2 12.0 % 387.3 344.1 12.6 % Rental car days 20.9 20.7 1.0 % 39.7 39.4 0.8 % Airline tickets 1.9 1.8 5.3 % 3.7 3.6 3.6 % Accommodation room night reservations increased by 12.0% and 12.6% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , primarily due to strong execution by our brand teams to add new properties to our accommodation reservation services, invest in performance and brand marketing and provide a continuously improving experience for customers, as well as the ongoing shift from offline to online for travel bookings. Rental car day reservations increased by 1.0% and 0.8% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , due to an increase in Rentalcars.coms rental car day reservations, partially offset by a decline in pricelines rental car day reservations. On March 26, 2018, priceline discontinued its Name Your Own Price rental car reservation service. Airline ticket reservations increased by 5.3% and 3.6% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , due to the benefits of priceline's investments in its flight platform and brand marketing. Revenues Online travel reservation services Substantially all of our revenues are generated by providing online travel reservation services, which facilitate online travel purchases between travel service providers and travelers. For periods beginning after December 31, 2017, we recognize revenue for travel reservation services when the travel begins rather than when the travel is completed. For example, once the customer checks in to an accommodation, we record revenues, which are net of sales incentives and expected cancellations. In addition, for periods beginning prior to January 1, 2018, revenues from Name Your Own Price ("NYOP") transactions were presented on a gross basis with the amount remitted to the travel service providers reported as cost of revenues. Under the current revenue standard, NYOP revenues are reported on a net basis with the amount remitted to the travel service providers recorded as an offset in merchant revenues. Therefore, for periods beginning after December 31, 2017, we no longer present "Cost of revenues" or "Gross profit" in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. For further information on the adoption of the current revenue standard, see Note 2 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. Online travel reservation services are classified into two categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not receive payments from travelers for the travel reservation services provided. Agency revenues consist almost entirely of travel reservation commissions, as well as certain GDS reservation booking fees and certain travel insurance fees. Substantially all of our agency revenue is from Booking.com agency accommodation reservations. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we receive payments from travelers for the travel reservation services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction net revenues (i.e., the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged to us by travel service providers) and travel reservation commissions in connection with (a) the accommodation reservations provided through our merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com, agoda.com and priceline and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at Rentalcars.com; (2) ancillary fees, including damage excess waiver insurance and certain travel insurance fees and certain GDS reservation booking fees and (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the merchant accommodation reservation services at priceline and agoda.com. 44 Advertising and other revenues Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for (a) sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers and (b) advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; (2) revenues earned by OpenTable for (a) reservation fees (fees paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees earned by OpenTable for restaurant reservation management services; (3) revenues earned by priceline for advertising on its websites; and (4) revenues generated by Booking.com's BookingSuite branded accommodation marketing and business analytics services. Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Agency revenues $ 2,566,293 $ 2,332,371 10.0 % $ 4,679,632 $ 4,117,684 13.6 % Merchant revenues 709,864 498,133 1,236,331 940,178 Advertising and other revenues 260,937 194,052 34.5 % 549,332 386,098 42.3 % Total revenues $ 3,537,094 3,024,556 $ 6,465,295 5,443,960 Cost of revenues 67,425 147,826 Gross profit $ 2,957,131 $ 5,296,134 Agency revenues increased by 10.0% and 13.6% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , almost entirely due to growth in agency accommodation room night reservations at Booking.com. Merchant revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were $709.9 million and $1.2 billion , respectively, compared to merchant revenues less cost of revenues of $430.7 million and $792.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , respectively, resulting in an increase of 64.8% and 56.0% , respectively. Revenue from our merchant accommodation reservation services contributed approximately 90% of the year-over-year increase for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 . Booking.com has been expanding its merchant accommodation reservation services to provide greater payment options for both customers and travel service providers. Advertising and other revenues increased by 34.5% and 42.3% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , primarily due to (1) the inclusion in 2018 of approximately $40 million and $84 million in revenue related to the Momondo Group for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively; (2) other growth in our KAYAK business; and (3) increased diner reservation volumes at OpenTable. The increase for the six months ended June 30, 2018 , was also driven by a benefit from the reversal of approximately $27 million related to OpenTable's loyalty program liability, which resulted from the introduction of a three-year time-based expiration for points earned by diners. Total revenues of $3.5 billion and $6.5 billion for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, as compared to gross profit of $3.0 billion and $5.3 billion for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , respectively, increased by 19.6% and 22.1% , respectively (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 16% for both the three and six months). Revenue from our accommodation reservation services contributed approximately 82% of the year-over-year increase for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 . Total revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 under the current revenue standard, where revenue is recognized when the travel begins (at "check-in"), were approximately 0.2% higher and 1.0% lower than total revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, if reported under the previous revenue standard, where revenue was recognized when travel was completed (at "check-out") (see Note 2 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). The favorable impact of 0.2% on total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 resulted in a slightly favorable impact on the growth rate when comparing 2018 total revenues to 2017 gross profit. The unfavorable impact of 1.0% on total revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2018 resulted in an unfavorable impact on the growth rate of approximately one percentage point when comparing 2018 total revenues to 2017 gross profit. Total revenues as a percentage of gross bookings was 14.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to gross profit as a percentage of gross bookings of 14.2% for the three months ended June 30, 2017 . The increase is due in part to the timing of booking versus travel and the inclusion of the Momondo Group since its acquisition in July 2017. The increase 45 is partially offset by: (1) Easter falling on April 1, 2018 versus the prior year on April 16, 2017, which resulted in Easter-related revenue being recognized at check-in during the first quarter of this year instead of Easter-related revenue being recognized at check-out in the second quarter of the prior year and (2) the increased use of discounted closed user group rates and incentives to drive gross bookings. Total revenues as a percentage of gross bookings was 13.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2018, as compared to gross profit as a percentage of gross bookings of 12.7% for the six months ended June 30, 2017. The increase is due in part to: (1) the timing of booking versus travel; (2) the inclusion of the Momondo Group since its acquisition in July 2017; and (3) the adjustment to reverse a portion of OpenTable's loyalty program liability. The increase is partially offset by the increased use of discounted closed user group rates and incentives to drive gross bookings. Our international operations accounted for approximately $3.1 billion and $5.7 billion of our total revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to $2.6 billion and $4.6 billion of our gross profit for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , respectively. Total revenues in 2018 compared to gross profit in 2017 attributable to our international operations increased by 20.7% and 23.1% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 16% and 17% , respectively). Total revenues in 2018 compared to gross profit in 2017 attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by 11.9% and 15.2% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , due to growth in all of our U.S. businesses. In addition, the adjustment to reverse a portion of OpenTable's loyalty program liability had a favorable impact on total revenues attributable to our U.S. businesses for the six months ended June 30, 2018 of approximately $27 million . Operating Expenses Marketing Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Performance marketing $ 1,141,893 $ 1,151,343 (0.8 )% $ 2,248,100 $ 2,133,515 5.4 % % of Total revenues in 2018 / % of Gross profit in 2017 32.3 % 38.9 % 34.8 % 40.3 % Brand marketing $ 123,734 $ 130,321 (5.1 )% $ 225,136 $ 211,139 6.6 % % of Total revenues in 2018 / % of Gross profit in 2017 3.5 % 4.4 % 3.5 % 4.0 % We rely on performance marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. Performance marketing expenses consist primarily of the costs of: (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; and (4) other performance-based marketing and incentives. For the three months ended June 30, 2018 , performance marketing expenses decreased compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 , due to the strategy to improve performance marketing ROIs. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 , performance marketing expenses increased compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017 , due to the growth in performance marketing spend for the three months ended March 31, 2018, which was partially offset by the decrease in performance marketing spend for the three months ended June 30, 2018. We adjust our performance marketing spend based on our growth and profitability objectives and the expected performance of our performance marketing channels. Performance marketing as a percentage of total revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 decreased compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 due to changes in the share of traffic by channel and increased performance marketing ROIs, as well as the timing of performance marketing expenses relative to when associated revenue is recognized. We recognize the substantial majority of our performance marketing expenses as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which the associated reservations are booked. In contrast, we generally do not recognize revenue from these reservations until the travel is completed or, for periods beginning after December 31, 2017, until the travel begins, which can be in a quarter other than when the reservations are booked. In addition, we may from time to time, as we did during the third and fourth quarters of 2017 and in the first and second quarters of 2018, pursue a strategy of improving our performance marketing ROIs, which could negatively impact growth and positively impact performance marketing efficiency. Brand marketing expenses consist primarily of television advertising, online video advertising (including the airing of our television advertising online) and online display advertising, as well as other marketing spend such as public relations, trade shows and sponsorships. For the three months ended June 30, 2018 , brand marketing expenses decreased by 5.1% compared to 46 the three months ended June 30, 2017 , primarily due to decreased brand marketing expenses at Booking.com, partly due to decisions around the timing of brand marketing spend. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 , brand marketing expenses increased by 6.6% compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017 , primarily due to increased brand marketing expenses at Booking.com and KAYAK, which includes expenses related to the Momondo Group since its acquisition in July 2017. We increased our brand marketing expenses in order to increase awareness of our brands and grow the number of customers that come directly to our websites. We have changed the presentation of advertising expenses and sales and marketing expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 1 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Sales and Other Expenses Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Sales and other expenses $ 203,593 $ 121,915 67.0 % $ 369,393 $ 231,514 59.6 % % of Total revenues in 2018 / % of Gross profit in 2017 5.8 % 4.1 % 5.7 % 4.4 % Sales and other expenses consist primarily of: (1) credit card and other payment processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for customer chargebacks associated with merchant transactions; (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables; and (5) customer relations costs. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , sales and other expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 due primarily to increased transaction volumes (primarily, increased merchant transaction volumes at Booking.com) and higher credit card chargebacks and bad debt expense related to accommodation commission receivables. We have changed the presentation of advertising expenses and sales and marketing expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 1 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Personnel Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Personnel $ 522,250 $ 385,708 35.4 % $ 1,021,137 $ 736,738 38.6 % % of Total revenues in 2018 / % of Gross profit in 2017 14.8 % 13.0 % 15.8 % 13.9 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes, and employee health and other benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , primarily due to increases in aggregate salaries of approximately $67 million and $146 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, primarily related to headcount growth to support our businesses. Stock-based compensation was $74.5 million and $145.9 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to $66.9 million and $125.8 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , respectively. Headcount increased, primarily at Booking.com, in the areas of information technology to support various business initiatives, such as alternative accommodations, marketing, payments and in-destination experiences, and customer service to support transaction growth. 47 General and Administrative Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change General and administrative $ 158,753 $ 143,882 10.3 % $ 320,892 $ 279,429 14.8 % % of Total revenues in 2018 / % of Gross profit in 2017 4.5 % 4.9 % 5.0 % 5.3 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) personnel-related expenses such as travel, relocation, recruiting and training expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , due primarily to higher occupancy and office expenses associated with increased headcount to support the expansion of our international businesses. Information Technology Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Information technology $ 58,950 $ 44,831 31.5 % $ 119,391 $ 84,776 40.8 % % of Total revenues in 2018 / % of Gross profit in 2017 1.7 % 1.5 % 1.8 % 1.6 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; (3) outsourced data center costs; and (4) payments to outside consultants. Information technology expenses increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , due primarily to increased software license fees and data center costs, as well as the inclusion of the operating results of the Momondo Group since its acquisition in July 2017. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Depreciation and amortization $ 106,666 $ 85,872 24.2 % $ 209,756 $ 169,302 23.9 % % of Total revenues in 2018 / % of Gross profit in 2017 3.0 % 2.9 % 3.2 % 3.2 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation of computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , primarily as a result of increased depreciation expenses due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build-outs to support growth and geographic expansion, the inclusion of intangible amortization for the Momondo Group since its acquisition in July 2017, and increased capitalized software development costs. 48 Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Interest income $ 45,690 $ 36,821 24.1 % $ 92,569 $ 68,813 34.5 % Interest expense (64,837 ) (60,942 ) 6.4 % (135,072 ) (116,659 ) 15.8 % Net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities 21,849 N/A 76,363 N/A Foreign currency transactions and other (15,046 ) (6,021 ) 149.9 % (23,102 ) (11,148 ) 107.2 % Total $ (12,344 ) $ (30,142 ) (59.0 )% $ 10,758 $ (58,994 ) (118.2 )% For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , interest income on cash equivalents and marketable securities increased, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , primarily due to higher yields and an increase in the average invested balance. Interest expense increased for the six months ended June 30, 2018 , compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017 , primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes issued in March 2017 and August 2017 and higher interest expenses of our Euro-denominated debt resulting from the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro, partially offset by the maturity of our 1.0% Convertible Senior Notes in March 2018. See Note 8 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. Net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 are related to the change in fair value of our investment in Ctrip equity securities during the period. Pursuant to the adoption of the accounting update on financial instruments in the first quarter of 2018, changes in fair value of marketable equity securities are recognized in net income for periods beginning after December 31, 2017, rather than accumulated other comprehensive income (see Note 1 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Foreign currency transactions and other includes foreign currency gains or losses on derivative contracts, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, including costs related to foreign currency transactions, net realized gains or losses on investments and other income or expense. Foreign currency transaction losses, including costs related to foreign currency transactions, resulted in foreign currency losses of $12.9 million and $20.4 million for the three and six months ended ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, and foreign currency losses of $6.5 million and $13.0 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , respectively. Income Taxes Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Income tax expense $ 231,539 $ 142,908 62.0 % $ 377,666 $ 214,895 75.7 % % of Earnings before income taxes 19.2 % 16.6 % 19.2 % 15.5 % Our 2018 effective tax rates differ from the 2018 U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% , primarily due to the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax, U.S. state tax rate changes that resulted in a net decrease to deferred tax liabilities associated with acquired intangible assets, and current year excess tax benefits of $1.0 million and $14.5 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, recognized from the vesting of equity awards, partially offset by the effect of higher international tax rates and U.S. federal and state tax associated with our current year international earnings, resulting from the introduction of the Tax Act. Our 2017 effective tax rates differ from the 2017 U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% , primarily as a result of lower international tax rates and current year excess tax benefits of $2.7 million and $12.6 million for three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , respectively, recognized from the vesting of equity awards, partially offset by certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rates were higher for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , primarily as a result of U.S. federal and state tax associated with our current year international earnings, resulting from the introduction of the Tax Act, and the increase in the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax rate from 5% to 7% as disclosed below. 49 A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment under Dutch tax law, which had a significant beneficial impact on the Company's effective tax rate for those periods. While we expect Booking.com to continue to qualify for Innovation Box Tax treatment with respect to a portion of its earnings for the foreseeable future, the loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit, whether due to a change in tax law or a determination by the Dutch government that Booking.com's activities are not "innovative" or for any other reason, would substantially increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our results of operations. During December 2017, legislation was enacted in the Netherlands that increased the Innovation Box Tax rate from 5% to 7% , effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We may not be able to maintain our 'Innovation Box Tax' benefit. " 50 Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2018 , we had $16.3 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in marketable securities. Approximately $11.1 billion is held by our international subsidiaries and is denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars and Euros and, to a lesser extent, British Pounds Sterling and other currencies. Cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in marketable securities are comprised of U.S. and international corporate bonds, U.S. and international government securities, high-grade commercial paper, U.S. government agency securities, convertible debt securities and American Depositary Shares ("ADSs") of Ctrip, money market funds, certificates of deposit and time deposits (see Note 6 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). As a result of the Tax Act (see Note 10 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements), we recorded a provisional transition tax liability of approximately $1.3 billion during the year ended December 31, 2017, inclusive of U.S. federal and state income taxes and international withholding taxes, net of the benefit of utilizing approximately $204 million of U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards and approximately $46 million of other U.S. tax credit carryforwards. The majority of this liability is U.S. federal income tax and will be paid over eight years. At June 30, 2018 , the remaining liability of $1.2 billion includes $1.1 billion in "Long-term U.S. transition tax liability" and approximately $93 million in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities" in the Unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet. In accordance with the Tax Act, generally future repatriation of our international cash will not be subject to a U.S. federal income tax liability as a dividend, but will be subject to U.S. state income taxes and international withholding taxes. In April 2018, we paid $139.4 million , net of cash acquired, and issued shares of our common stock in an amount of $110.4 million in connection with an acquisition of a local activities and experiences booking software provider. In July 2018, we invested $500 million in preferred shares of Didi Chuxing, the leading mobile transportation and ride-hailing platform in China. In July 2018, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire a hotel meta-search company and will pay approximately $140 million in cash in connection with this acquisition. The transaction is expected to close later this year, subject to regulatory approval and other closing conditions. In June 2015, we entered into a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.50% ; or (ii) the greatest of (a) Bank of America, N.A.'s prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% , and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00% , plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50% . Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.085% to 0.20% . The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $70.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50.0 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. At June 30, 2018 , there were no borrowings outstanding and approximately $3.8 million of letters of credit issued under the facility. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, in connection with the maturity of the remaining outstanding 2018 Notes, we paid $714.3 million to satisfy the aggregate principal amount due and paid an additional $773.2 million in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount. Our 2020 Notes are convertible at the option of the holders at June 30, 2018 , and, accordingly, we reported the carrying value of the 2020 Notes as a current liability in our Unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 30, 2018 . If note holders exercise their option to convert, we would be required to repay the principal amount of the 2020 Notes in cash and may deliver shares of common stock or cash, at our option, to satisfy the conversion value in excess of the principal amount. In the first quarter of 2018, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $8.0 billion of our common stock, in addition to amounts previously authorized. During the six months ended June 30, 2018 , we repurchased 945,693 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $1.9 billion . At June 30, 2018 , we had a remaining aggregate amount of $8.6 billion authorized by our Board of Directors to repurchase our common stock. We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. 51 In September 2016, we signed a turnkey agreement to construct an office building in the Netherlands for the future headquarters of Booking.com for approximately 270 million Euros. Upon signing the agreement, we paid approximately 48 million Euros to the developer, principally related to acquired land-use rights. We paid approximately 34 million Euros (approximately $41 million as discussed below) in the first quarter of 2018 and expect to pay approximately 27 million Euros in the third quarter of 2018, almost entirely related to building construction. The remaining amount of approximately 161 million Euros related to building construction under the turnkey agreement will be paid periodically from the fourth quarter of 2018 until the expected completion of the building in early 2021. As of June 30, 2018, required future lease payments for the land-use rights to the Municipality in Amsterdam of approximately 78 million Euros, which is in addition to the 270 million Euros related to the turnkey agreement, will be recognized as rent expense on a straight-line basis over the remaining 48 -year term of the lease. We will also make additional capital expenditures to fit out and furnish the office space. See Note 12 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash Flow Analysis Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $2.3 billion , resulting from net income of $1.6 billion , a favorable impact of $354.8 million for non-cash items and a favorable impact of $350.9 million for changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 , prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $574.2 million , primarily related to the remaining balance of prepayments of Netherlands income taxes of approximately $392 million to earn prepayment discounts, principally by Booking.com, and the increase in prepayment to suppliers of approximately $113 million. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 , accounts receivable increased by $391.8 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $1.3 billion , primarily related to increases in business volumes. Due to the typical seasonality of our business, our gross bookings and revenues are generally higher in the second quarter of the year than in the fourth quarter of the year which typically results in higher accounts receivable, deferred merchant bookings, accounts payable and accrued expenses at June 30 compared to December 31. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization and net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was $1.6 billion , resulting from net income of $1.2 billion and a favorable impact of $321.5 million for non-cash items and favorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $104.5 million . For the six months ended June 30, 2017 , prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $438.6 million , primarily related to the remaining balance of prepayments of Netherlands income taxes of approximately $318 million to earn prepayment discounts, principally by Booking.com. For the six months ended June 30, 2017 , accounts receivable increased by $333.5 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $873.7 million , primarily related to increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount on our convertible notes and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by investing activities was $1.8 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2018 , principally resulting from net sales of investments of $2.1 billion , partially offset by acquisitions and and other investments, net of cash acquired, of $139.4 million . Net cash used in investing activities was $1.5 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2017 , principally resulting from net purchases of investments of $1.4 billion . Cash invested in the purchase of property and equipment was $235.0 million and $147.3 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Cash invested in the purchase of property and equipment for the six months ended June 30 2018 includes a payment of approximately $41 million for constructing Booking.com's future headquarters in the first quarter of 2018. Net cash used in financing activities was $3.4 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2018 , which primarily consisted of payments for the repurchase of common stock of $1.9 billion and payments for the conversion of Senior Notes of $1.5 billion . Net cash provided by financing activities was $420.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 , which primarily consisted of total proceeds of $1.1 billion from the issuance of Senior Notes, partially offset by payments for repurchase of common stock of $555.3 million and payments related to the conversion of Senior Notes of $83.5 million . Contingencies French tax authorities conducted an audit of the years 2003 through 2012 to determine whether Booking.com is in compliance with its tax obligations in France. Booking.com received formal assessments in December 2015 in which the French tax authorities claim that Booking.com has a permanent establishment in France and seek to recover unpaid income taxes and value-added taxes of approximately 356 million Euros, the majority of which would represent penalties and interest. We believe that Booking.com has been, and continues to be, in compliance with French tax law and we are contesting the assessments. Our objection to the assessment was denied by the French tax authorities. If we are unable to resolve the matter 52 with the French tax authorities, we would expect to challenge the assessments in the French courts. In order to contest the assessments in court, we may be required to pay, upfront, the full amount or a significant part of any such assessments, though such payment would not constitute an admission by us that we owe the taxes. Alternatively, any resolution or settlement of the matter with the French tax authorities may also require a payment as part of such resolution or settlement. In each case, any such payment would not necessarily constitute an admission by us that we owe the taxes. French tax authorities have begun a similar audit of the tax years 2013 through 2015, which could result in additional assessments. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At June 30, 2018 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Sections of this Form 10-Q including, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above and the Risk Factors contained in Part II Item 1A hereof, contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Part II Item 1A, Risk Factors. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 , and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.