Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (In thousands, except per share amounts) Total revenues $ 8,441,971 $ 6,793,306 $ 5,260,956 $ 4,355,610 $ 3,084,905 Cost of revenues 857,841 1,077,420 1,177,275 1,275,730 1,175,934 Gross profit 7,584,130 5,715,886 4,083,681 3,079,880 1,908,971 Total operating expenses 4,510,818 3,303,472 2,253,888 1,680,958 1,122,174 Operating income 3,073,312 2,412,414 1,829,793 1,398,922 786,797 Total other expense 83,864 115,877 67,924 31,128 40,514 Income tax expense 567,695 403,739 337,832 308,663 218,141 Net income 2,421,753 1,892,798 1,424,037 1,059,131 528,142 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (1) 135 4,471 2,760 601 Net income applicable to common stockholders 2,421,753 1,892,663 1,419,566 1,056,371 527,541 Net income applicable to common stockholders per basic common share 46.30 37.17 28.48 21.27 11.00 Net income applicable to common stockholders per diluted share 45.67 36.11 27.66 20.63 10.35 Total assets 14,940,563 10,444,460 6,569,742 3,970,671 2,905,953 Long-term obligations, redeemable noncontrolling interests (2) 5,031,073 2,304,917 1,731,385 788,218 621,624 Total liabilities 6,373,540 3,526,198 2,457,825 1,191,971 1,046,828 Total stockholders' equity 8,566,694 6,909,729 3,896,975 2,574,295 1,813,336 _____________________________ (1) Redeemable noncontrolling interests beginning in 2010 relates to the Company's purchase of rentalcars.com in May 2010. In April 2011, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2011, the redeemable noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com were reduced from 24.4% to 19.0%. In April 2012, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2012, the redeemable noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com were reduced from 19.0% to 12.7%. In April 2013, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2013, the Company purchased the remaining outstanding shares underlying the redeemable noncontrolling interests. (2) Includes convertible debt which is classified as a current liability. 39 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," this discussion contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview We are a leading provider of online travel and travel related reservation and search services. Through our online travel agent ("OTA") services, we connect consumers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world. We offer consumers accommodation reservations (including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels, apartments, vacation rentals and other properties) through our Booking.com, priceline.com and agoda.com brands. Our priceline.com brand also offers consumers reservations for rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages and cruises. We offer rental car reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com. We also allow consumers to easily compare airline ticket, hotel reservation and rental car reservation information from hundreds of travel websites at once through KAYAK. We recently acquired OpenTable, a leading provider of online restaurant reservations. We believe that the online restaurant reservation business is complementary to our online travel businesses, and that both OpenTable and our travel businesses will benefit from adding OpenTable to The Priceline Group. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands, including Booking.com, priceline.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, rentalcars.com and, as of July 24, 2014, OpenTable, collectively as "The Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include Booking.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, rentalcars.com and OpenTable, which are independently managed and operated brands. Our principal goal is to serve consumers and our travel service provider and restaurant partners with worldwide leadership in online reservation services. Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com and the results of the internationally based websites of KAYAK and, as of July 24, 2014, OpenTable (in each case regardless of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while making a reservation or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant). During the year ended December 31, 2014 , our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 87% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately 94% of our consolidated operating income. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more geographic information. A significant majority of our gross profit is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations. We derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car, airline ticket and vacation package reservation services; Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to OTAs and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; Beginning on July 24, 2014, revenues recognized by OpenTable, which consist of reservation revenues (a fee for restaurant guests seated through OpenTable's online reservation service), subscription fees for restaurant reservation management services and other revenues; and Global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees related to our Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservation services, and price-disclosed airline ticket and rental car reservation services. Our priceline.com brand offers merchant Name Your Own Price opaque travel services, which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue. All of our other services are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between Name Your Own Price travel services and other services. Gross profit reflects the commission or net margin earned for our retail, Name Your Own Price and semi-opaque travel services and our advertising and other services. Consequently, gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business because, in contrast to our revenues, it is not affected by 40 the different methods of recording revenue and cost of revenue between our Name Your Own Price travel services and our other services. Trends Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices, the high growth of travel overall in emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America, and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build accommodation supply, content and distribution and to improve the customer experience on our websites and mobile apps. These year-over-year growth rates have generally decelerated in recent years. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2014 , our accommodation room night reservation growth was 28% , a deceleration from 37% in 2013 , 40% in 2012 and 53% in 2011. Given the size of our hotel reservation business, we expect that our year-over-year growth rates will continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate. The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet use and e-commerce activity of international consumers have trailed that of consumers in the United States. However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. We expect that over the long-term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. Our growth has primarily been generated by our international accommodation reservation service brands, Booking.com and agoda.com. Booking.com, our most significant brand, included over 600,000 properties on its website as of February 13, 2015 , which included over 245,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from both a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in our newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. As our international business represents the substantial majority of our financial results, we expect to continue to see our operating results and other financial metrics largely driven by international performance. For example, certain markets in which we operate that are in earlier stages of development have lower operating margins compared to more mature markets, which could have a negative impact on our overall margins as these markets increase in size over time. Also, we intend to continue to invest in adding accommodations available for reservation on our websites, including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels and vacation rentals. Vacation rentals generally consist of, among others, properties categorized as single-unit and multi-unit villas, apartments, "aparthotels" (which are apartments with a front desk and cleaning service) and chalets and are generally self-catered (i.e., include a kitchen), directly bookable properties. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms, lower average daily rates ("ADRs") or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts), and therefore may also negatively impact our margins. For example, because a vacation rental is either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, vacation rental properties represent more limited booking opportunities than non-vacation rental properties, which generally have more units to rent per property. Our non-hotel accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons, weather or other factors. As we increase our non-hotel accommodation business, these different market characteristics could negatively impact our profit margins; and, to the extent these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our websites, our gross bookings growth rate and property growth rate will likely diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of non-hotel accommodations increases, the number of reservations per property will likely decrease. In addition, non-hotel accommodations, including vacation rentals, tend to be more seasonal in nature and may close during "off-season," which impacts our property counts quarter to quarter. Concerns persist about the outlook for the global economy in general, and the European Union in particular, with recent declines in broad Eurozone economic indicators raising fears about the pace of economic growth and the risk of deflation. In addition, many governments around the world, including the U.S. government and certain European governments, continue to operate at large financial deficits, resulting in high levels of sovereign debt in such countries. Greece, Ireland, Portugal and certain other European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt at times have had difficulty refinancing 41 their debt. Failure to reach political consensus regarding workable solutions to these issues has resulted in a high level of uncertainty regarding the future economic outlook. This uncertainty, as well as concern over governmental austerity measures including higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates and weaker trends in hotel ADRs across many regions of the world, particularly in those European countries that appear to be most affected by economic uncertainties. We believe that these business trends are likely impacted by weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns. Disruptions in the economies of such countries could cause, contribute to or be indicative of deteriorating macro-economic conditions. Greece's newly elected government, which campaigned against austerity measures, may not be able to reach an acceptable solution to the country's debt crisis with the European Union. This may increase the likelihood that Greece, and in turn other countries, could exit the European Union, which could lead to added economic uncertainty and further devaluation or eventual abandonment of the Euro common currency. These and other macro-economic uncertainties, such as sovereign default risk becoming more widespread, declining oil prices and geopolitical tensions, have led to significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the U.S. Dollar and other currencies. The European Central Bank, in an effort to stimulate the European economy, recently launched a quantitative easing program to purchase public debt, which in turn has caused the Euro exchange rate to weaken compared to the U.S. Dollar. Our international business represents a substantial majority of our financial results. During the year ended December 31, 2014 , our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 87% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately 94% of our consolidated operating income. Therefore, because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international businesses are translated from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. The U.S. Dollar significantly strengthened against the Euro during 2014, moving from an exchange rate of 1.38 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of January 1, 2014 to 1.13 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of January 31, 2015. The U.S. Dollar also strengthened significantly during this time frame as compared to many other currencies. As a result, our foreign currency denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses and net income have been negatively impacted as expressed in U.S. Dollars. For example, gross profit from our international operations grew year-over-year on a local currency basis by approximately 32% for the three months ended December 31, 2014 , but, as a result of the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, grew 24% as reported in U.S. Dollars. The U.S. Dollar significantly strengthened against the Euro during 2014, moving from an exchange rate of 1.38 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of January 1, 2014 to 1.21 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of December 31, 2014. The U.S. Dollar strengthened further in January 2015 to an exchange rate of 1.13 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of January 31, 2015. The U.S. Dollar has also strengthened against many other currencies since January 1, 2014. At these exchange rates, the growth of our total and international gross bookings, expressed in U.S. Dollars, will be significantly adversely impacted in 2015. We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results. However, such derivative instruments are short-term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact our gross bookings, revenues or gross profit (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). Significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates can also impact consumer travel behavior. For example, recent dramatic depreciation of the Russian Ruble has resulted in it becoming more expensive for Russians to travel to Europe and most other non-Ruble destinations. Consumers traveling from a country whose currency has weakened against other currencies may book lower ADR accommodations, choose to shorten or cancel their international travel plans or choose to travel domestically rather than internationally, any of which could adversely affect our gross bookings, revenues and results of operations, in particular when expressed in U.S. Dollars. The uncertainty of macro-economic factors, the volatility in foreign exchange rates and their impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. We compete with both online and traditional travel and travel related reservation and search services. The market for the travel reservation and search services we offer is intensely competitive, a trend we expect to continue, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. We currently, or potentially may in the future, compete with a variety of companies, including: online travel reservation services such as those owned by Expedia, Orbitz (which has agreed to be acquired by Expedia), Ctrip, Rakuten, eDreams ODIGEO and Jalan; 42 online accommodation search and/or reservation services, such as HomeAway and Airbnb, focused on vacation rental properties, including individually owned properties; large online companies, including search, social networking and marketplace companies such as Google, Facebook, Alibaba, Amazon and Groupon; traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators, such as Carlson Wagonlit, American Express, Thomas Cook and Tui Travel, as well as thousands of individual travel agencies around the world; travel service providers such as accommodation providers, rental car companies and airlines; online travel search and price comparison services (generally referred to as "meta-search" services), such as TripAdvisor, trivago (in which Expedia has acquired a majority ownership interest), Qunar and HotelsCombined; and online restaurant reservation services, such as TripAdvisor's LaFourchette and Yelp's SeatMe. For more detail regarding the competitive trends and risks we face, see Part I Item 1 Business - "Competition" and Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. " and " Recent trends in consumer adoption and use of mobile devices create new challenges and may enable device companies such as Apple to compete directly with us. " After entering into an exclusive, long-term strategic marketing agreement in August 2013, Expedia acquired Travelocity in January 2015. On February 12, 2015, Expedia announced that it had entered into an agreement to acquire Orbitz. To the extent these acquisitions enhance Expedia's ability to compete with us, in particular in the United States, which is Expedia's, Travelocity's and Orbitz's largest market, our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected. Widespread adoption of mobile devices, such as the iPhone, Android-enabled smart phones and tablets such as the iPad, coupled with the improved web browsing functionality and development of thousands of useful "apps" available on these devices, is driving substantial online traffic and commerce to mobile platforms. We have experienced a significant shift of business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Our major competitors and certain new market entrants are offering mobile applications for travel products and other mobile functionality, including proprietary last-minute discounts for accommodation reservations. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. The gross profit earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. Further, given the device sizes and technical limitations of tablets and smart phones, mobile consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps from multiple companies providing a similar service and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their mobile travel and restaurant research and reservation activity. As a result, the consumer experience with mobile apps as well as brand recognition and loyalty are likely to become increasingly important. Our mobile offerings have received strong reviews and achieved solid download trends, and are driving a material and increasing share of our business. We believe that mobile bookings present an opportunity for growth and are necessary to maintain and grow our business as consumers increasingly turn to mobile devices instead of a personal computer and to mobile applications in addition to a web browser. If we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly and differentiated mobile offerings and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our mobile apps are not downloaded and used by consumers, we could lose market share to existing competitors or new entrants and our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we have observed an increase in promotional pricing to closed user groups (such as loyalty program participants or customers with registered accounts), including through mobile apps. If we are not as effective as our competition in offering discounted prices to closed user groups or if we are unable to entice members of our competitors' closed user groups to use our services, our ability to grow and compete could be harmed. Further, growth in discounted closed user group retail prices for hotel rooms lessens the price difference for members of closed user groups between a retail hotel reservation and an opaque hotel reservation, which may lead to fewer consumers using our opaque hotel reservation services. If we need to fund discounts out of our gross profit, our profitability could be adversely affected. We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotional campaigns. As a result, both our online and offline advertising expense has increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue. During 2014, our total online advertising expense was approximately $2.4 billion , a substantial portion of 43 which was spent internationally through Internet search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services and affiliate marketing. We also invested $231 million in offline advertising. We intend to continue a strategy of aggressively promoting brand awareness, primarily through online means although we also intend to increase our offline advertising efforts, including by expanding offline campaigns into additional markets. For example, building on its first offline advertising campaign, which it launched in the United States in 2013, Booking.com has begun offline advertising campaigns in other markets, including Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and Germany. We have observed increased offline advertising by OTAs, meta-search services and travel service providers, particularly in North America and Europe, which may make our offline advertising efforts more expensive and less effective. Online advertising efficiency, expressed as online advertising as a percentage of gross profit, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and the extent to which consumers come directly to our websites or mobile apps for bookings. For example, competition for desired rankings in search results and/or a decline in ad clicks by consumers, could increase our costs-per-click and reduce our online advertising efficiency. From 2011 to 2013 our online advertising grew faster than our gross profit due to (1) year-over-year declines in online advertising returns on investment ("ROIs") and (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group as our international brands grew faster than our U.S. brands and spent a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. In 2014, these long-term trends were more than offset by the inclusion of KAYAK and OpenTable because they spend a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other brands. Also, our consolidated results exclude intercompany advertising by our brands on KAYAK since our acquisition of KAYAK in May 2013. If Google changes how it presents travel search results or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results in a manner that is competitively disadvantageous to us, whether to support its own travel related services or otherwise, our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites could be harmed. See Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " We rely on online advertising channels to enhance our brand awareness and to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in Internet search engine algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " The competition authorities of many governments have begun investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. For example, Booking.com has been the subject of a competition investigation by U.K. competition authorities since July 2012. Other national competition authorities, including those in the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Hungary, Sweden and Switzerland, have more recently opened investigations that focus on Booking.com's rate parity clause in its contracts with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions. We are currently unable to predict the outcome of all of these investigations or how our business may be affected. Possible outcomes include requiring Booking.com to remove its rate parity clause from its contracts with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions. In the U.K. investigation, Booking.com and the other subjects of the investigation had reached a settlement with the competition authorities; however, that settlement has been vacated on appeal. On December 15, 2014, the French, Italian and Swedish national competition authorities, working in close cooperation with the European Commission, announced their intention to seek public feedback on commitments offered by Booking.com in connection with investigations of Booking.com's rate parity provisions in its contractual arrangements with accommodation providers. See Footnote 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " As the size of our business grows, we may become increasingly subject to the scrutiny of anti-trust and competition regulators. " We note that the German competition authority has required Hotel Reservation Service, a leading OTA in Germany, to remove its rate parity clause from its contracts with hotels, and Hotel Reservation Service's initial appeal was denied. To the extent that regulatory authorities require changes to our business practices or to those currently common to the industry, our business, competitive position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Negative publicity regarding any such investigations could adversely affect our brand and therefore our market share and results of operations. Hotels typically make available only a limited number of hotel rooms for opaque services like ours, especially during periods of high occupancy. As a result, recent high hotel occupancy levels in the United States have had an adverse impact on our access to hotel rooms for our opaque hotel reservation services, which has negatively affected our opaque hotel reservation gross profits. Seasonality A meaningful amount of gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as the expense is incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which reservations are booked. However, we generally do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs. As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation checkouts for the year for our European and North American businesses. 44 In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2013 our second quarter year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were adversely affected by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, as it did in 2012. Conversely, our second quarter 2014 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were favorably impacted by Easter falling in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2013. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short-term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable advertising expense. In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters. We experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters. Therefore, if these businesses grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results. Other Factors We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel related services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods and volcanic eruptions, travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities or travel related accidents, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and impair our ability to effectively implement all or some of the initiatives described above. For example, in late 2012 Hurricane Sandy disrupted travel in the northeastern United States. In early 2011, Japan was struck by a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency. In October 2011, severe flooding in Thailand, a key market for our agoda.com business and the Asian business of Booking.com, negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market. In addition, Thailand has recently experienced disruptive civil unrest, which has negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market. In early 2010, Thailand also experienced civil unrest, which caused the temporary relocation of agoda.com's Thailand-based operations. Future natural disasters, health concerns or civil or political unrest could further disrupt our business and operations. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to grow gross profit and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain gross profit growth and profitability. On July 24, 2014, we acquired OpenTable, a leading provider of online restaurant reservations, for $2.5 billion ( $2.4 billion net of cash acquired) and on May 21, 2013, we acquired KAYAK Software Corporation, a leading travel meta-search service, for $2.1 billion ($1.9 billion net of cash acquired). A substantial portion of the total consideration for these acquisitions related to identifiable acquired intangibles and goodwill (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). In 2015, we intend to invest in OpenTable to accelerate its global expansion, increase the value offered to its restaurant partners and enhance the end-to-end experience for customers across desktop and mobile devices. As a result, we expect OpenTable's profitability in 2015 to decline year-over-year as we invest for future growth. If the investments we intend to make in 2015 and beyond, in particular internationally, are unsuccessful in growing OpenTable's global online restaurant reservation business or OpenTable experiences a significant reduction in revenues or profitability due to factors such as competition, increased capital expenditures or investments in its business, we may incur an impairment. Likewise, if KAYAK is unsuccessful in profitably growing its global online travel brand or it experiences a significant reduction in advertising revenues on its websites or mobile apps or profitability due to factors such as a loss of continued access to travel services information provided by other OTAs or travel service providers, we may incur an impairment. 45 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Our significant accounting policies and estimates are more fully described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting policies and estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. In applying those policies, our management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the items described below. Those estimates are based on, among other things, historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies that involve significant estimates and judgments of management include the following: Accounting for Travel Transaction Taxes. As discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are currently involved in approximately forty lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g. hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). In addition, over seventy-nine municipalities or counties, and at least eleven states, have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes. Additional state and local jurisdictions are likely to assert that we are subject to travel transaction taxes and could seek to collect such taxes, retroactively and/or prospectively. Historically, we have not collected travel transaction taxes on the gross profit earned from merchant hotel transactions; however, in a handful of jurisdictions, we have been required recently by passage of a new statute or by court order to start collecting and remitting certain taxes (local occupancy and/or sales or excise tax) imposed upon our margin and/or service fee, or in the case of Hawaii, on the full amount collected from the consumer. The ultimate resolution of these matters in all jurisdictions cannot be determined at this time. We have established an accrual (including estimated interest and penalties) for potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes for prior and current periods, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances. We accrue for legal contingencies where it is probable that a loss has occurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated; our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. A variety of factors could affect the amount of the liability (both past and future), which factors include, but are not limited to, the number of, and amount of gross profit represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement and changes in relevant statutes. The ultimate resolution of these matters may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Stock-Based Compensation. We record stock-based compensation expense for equity-based awards over the recipient's service period based upon the grant date fair value of the award. A number of our equity awards have performance targets (a performance "contingency") which, if satisfied, can increase the number of shares issued to the recipients at the end of the performance period or, in certain instances, if not satisfied, reduce the number of shares issued to the recipients, sometimes to zero, at the end of the performance period. The performance periods for our performance based equity awards are typically three years. We record stock-based compensation expense for these performance-based awards based upon our estimate of the probable outcome at the end of the performance period (i.e., the estimated performance against the performance targets). We periodically adjust the cumulative stock-based compensation recorded when the probable outcome for these performance-based awards is updated based upon changes in actual and forecasted operating results. Stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 includes charges amounting to $20.6 million , $24.1 million and $0.9 million , respectively, representing the impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome of unvested performance share units. Our actual performance against the performance targets could differ materially from our estimates. We record stock-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures. In determining the estimated forfeiture rates, we periodically review actual forfeitures. To the extent that actual forfeiture rates differ from current estimates, such amounts are recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which the estimate is revised. Valuation of Goodwill, Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles . The application of the purchase method of accounting for business combinations requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions to determine 46 the fair value of the assets and liabilities assumed in order to properly allocate the purchase price consideration between identifiable intangible assets from goodwill. Our estimates of the fair value of assets and liabilities assumed are based upon assumptions that we believe are reasonable and, when appropriate, include assistance from a third party valuation firm. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. Excluding OpenTable, which was acquired in July 2014, the estimated fair value of our other reporting units substantially exceed their respective carrying values. Since the annual impairment test in September 2014, there have been no events or changes in circumstances to indicate a potential impairment. Additionally, we evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate that the carrying amounts of long-lived assets and intangibles may be impaired. The significant factors that are considered that could trigger an impairment review include changes in business strategies, market conditions, or the manner of use of an asset; under performance relative to historical or expected future operating results; and negative industry or economic trends. In evaluating an asset for possible impairment, management estimates that asset's future undiscounted cash flows to measure whether the carrying value of the asset is recoverable. If it is determined that the asset is not recoverable, we measure the impairment based upon the fair value of the asset compared to its carrying value. The fair value represents the projected discounted cash flows of the asset over its remaining life. As a result of our recent acquisitions of OpenTable and KAYAK in July 2014 and May 2013, respectively, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Refer to Note 20 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In 2015, we intend to invest in OpenTable to accelerate its global expansion, increase the value offered to its restaurant partners and enhance the end-to-end experience for customers across desktop and mobile devices. As a result, we expect OpenTable's profitability in 2015 to decline year-over-year as we invest for future growth. If the investments we intend to make in 2015 and beyond, in particular internationally, are unsuccessful in growing OpenTable's global online restaurant reservation business or OpenTable experiences a significant reduction in revenues or profitability due to factors such as competition, increased capital expenditures or investments in its business, we may incur an impairment. Likewise, if KAYAK is unsuccessful in profitably growing its global online travel brand or it experiences a significant reduction in advertising revenues on its websites or mobile apps or profitability due to factors such as a loss of continued access to travel services information provided by other OTAs or travel service providers, we may incur an impairment charge. Income Taxes. We determine our tax expense based on our income and statutory tax rates applicable in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Due to the complex nature of tax legislation and frequent changes with such associated legislation, significant judgment is required in computing our tax expense and determining our tax positions. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of temporary differences, and tax planning strategies and record valuation allowances as required. We are subject to ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. To date, we have been audited in several taxing jurisdictions with no significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Although we believe that our tax filing positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Accordingly, we may incur additional tax expense based upon our assessment of the more likely than not outcomes or we may adjust previously recorded tax expense to reflect examination results. We intend to reinvest our foreign earnings in our non-U.S. operations. At December 31, 2014 and 2013 , we had approximately $7.3 billion and $4.9 billion, respectively, of foreign earnings indefinitely reinvested. It is not practicable to determine the U.S. federal income tax liability that would be payable if such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") and the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") issued a new accounting standard on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers that is designed to create greater comparability for financial statement users across industries and jurisdictions. The core principle of the standard is that an "entity recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services." Additionally, the new 47 guidance specifies the accounting for some costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer. The new standard will also require enhanced disclosures. The accounting standard is effective for public entities for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is not permitted under U.S. GAAP and retrospective application is permitted but not required. We are currently evaluating the impact on its consolidated financial statements of adopting this new guidance. In April 2014, the FASB issued an accounting update which amends the definition of a discontinued operation. The new definition limits discontinued operations reporting to disposals of components of an entity that represent strategic shifts that have or will have a major effect on an entity's operations and financial results. The new definition includes an acquired business that is classified as held for sale at the date of acquisition. The accounting update requires new disclosures of both discontinued operations and a disposal of an individually significant component of an entity. The accounting update is effective for annual and interim periods beginning on or after December 15, 2014. Early adoption is permitted but only for disposals that have not been reported in financial statements previously issued. We adopted this update in the first quarter of 2015 and this accounting update did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. In July 2013, the FASB issued an accounting update which provides guidance on financial statement presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward or a tax credit carryforward exists in the same taxing jurisdiction. Per this guidance, an entity must present the unrecognized tax benefit as a reduction to a deferred tax asset, except when the carryforward is not available as of the reporting date under the governing tax law to settle taxes or the entity does not intend to use the deferred tax asset for this purpose. This amendment does not impact the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions or the disclosure reconciliation of gross unrecognized tax benefits. The update is effective for public companies beginning after December 15, 2013. We adopted this update in the first quarter of 2014 and this accounting update did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated balance sheet. 48 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2014 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2013 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel related services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units purchased by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers and is widely used in the travel business. International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com businesses and domestic gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our priceline.com business, in each case regardless of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while making a reservation or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant. We follow a similar approach for reporting the international and domestic revenue and gross profit of those businesses. Gross bookings resulting from accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our international and U.S. operations for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 Change International $ 43,639 $ 33,300 31.0 % Domestic 6,661 5,873 13.4 % Total $ 50,300 $ 39,173 28.4 % Gross bookings increased by 28.4% for the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the same period in 2013 (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 30% ), principally due to growth of 27.9% in accommodation room night reservations, 3% growth on a local currency basis in accommodation ADRs, growth of 18.1% in rental car day reservations and 12.0% growth in airline ticket reservations. International gross bookings grew by 31.0% (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 33% ) for the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , primarily as a result of growth in accommodation room night reservations for our Booking.com and agoda.com businesses, as well as growth in rental car day reservations for our rentalcars.com business. The U.S. Dollar significantly strengthened against the Euro during 2014, moving from an exchange rate of 1.38 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of January 1, 2014 to 1.21 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of December 31, 2014. The U.S. Dollar strengthened further in January 2015 to an exchange rate of 1.13 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of January 31, 2015. The U.S. Dollar has also strengthened against many other currencies since January 1, 2014. At these exchange rates, the growth of our total and international gross bookings, expressed in U.S. Dollars, will be significantly adversely impacted in 2015. We therefore believe that unit growth rates and total gross bookings, international gross bookings and gross profit growth on a local currency basis, excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. Domestic gross bookings increased by 13.4% for the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , primarily due to increases in priceline.com's retail airline ticket, retail hotel, Express Deals hotel and retail rental car services, partially offset by declines in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Travel service providers typically provide a limited amount of availability to opaque services like ours, especially during periods of healthy travel demand. As a result, the recent healthy travel environment in the United States has had an adverse impace on our access to availability for our opaque reservation services. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): 49 Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 Change Agency $ 42,892 $ 32,672 31.3 % Merchant 7,409 6,501 14.0 % Total $ 50,300 $ 39,173 28.4 % Agency gross bookings increased 31.3% for the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , primarily due to growth in Booking.com accommodation room night reservations, priceline.com's retail airline ticket, rental car and hotel reservation services, and rentalcars.com rental car reservation service. Merchant gross bookings increased 14.0% for the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , primarily due to increases in agoda.com hotel reservation services, rentalcars.com rental car reservation services and priceline.com Express Deals hotel and retail hotel reservation services, partially offset by declines in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price services. Units sold for accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 Change Room Nights 346.0 270.5 27.9 % Rental Car Days 51.8 43.9 18.1 % Airline Tickets 7.8 7.0 12.0 % Accommodation room night reservations increased by 27.9% for the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , due to an increase in Booking.com, agoda.com and priceline.com accommodation room night reservations. Booking.com, our most significant brand, included over 600,000 properties on its website as of February 13, 2015 , which included over 245,000 vacation rental properties, compared to approximately 425,000 properties as of February 18, 2014, which included over 110,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in our newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate and our core European market. Rental car day reservations increased by 18.1% for the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , due to an increase in price-disclosed rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and priceline.com, partially offset by a decline in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price rental car reservation service. Airline ticket reservations increased by 12.0% for the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , due to an increase in price-disclosed airline ticket reservations for priceline.com driven primarily by increased paid advertising placements on KAYAK (which began in the third quarter of 2013), partially offset by a decline in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservation service. Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, GDS reservation booking fees related to certain travel services, travel insurance fees and customer processing fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Substantially all of the revenue for Booking.com is agency revenue comprised of travel commissions. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer's credit card for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the price of Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservations and vacation 50 packages charged to a customer; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged to us by travel service providers in connection with (a) the accommodation reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel reservation services at agoda.com and priceline.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at rentalcars.com and merchant Express Deals reservation services at priceline.com; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services, Express Deals reservation services and merchant price-disclosed hotel reservation services; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for sending referrals to OTAs and travel service providers; (2) advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; (3) reservation revenues earned by OpenTable (a fee for restaurant guests seated through OpenTable's online reservation service); (4) subscription fees earned by OpenTable for restaurant reservation management services; and (5) revenues generated by Booking.com's hotel marketing services. Revenue from KAYAK is net of intercompany revenues earned by KAYAK from other Priceline Group brands. Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Agency Revenues $ 5,845,802 $ 4,410,689 32.5 % Merchant Revenues 2,186,054 2,211,474 (1.1 )% Advertising and Other Revenues 410,115 171,143 139.6 % Total Revenues $ 8,441,971 $ 6,793,306 24.3 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 increased 32.5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com. Our priceline.com agency revenues benefited from growth in our retail rental car, agency airline ticket and agency hotel reservation businesses. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 decreased 1.1% compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , primarily due to decreases in revenues from priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services, mostly offset by increases in our agoda.com business, rentalcars.com business, priceline.com's Express Deals and retail merchant hotel reservation services and priceline.com's Express Deals rental car reservation services. Merchant revenue declined versus the prior year despite growth in merchant gross bookings, because our merchant revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price service. Name Your Own Price revenues, which declined year-over-year, are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and represented a smaller percentage, year-over-year, of total revenues compared to our faster-growing agoda.com, rentalcars.com and priceline.com retail merchant hotel and Express Deals reservation services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2014 consisted primarily of advertising revenues, restaurant reservation revenues and subscription revenues for restaurant reservation management services. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 includes $100.6 million of OpenTable revenue earned since its acquisition on July 24, 2014. Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Cost of Revenues $ 857,841 $ 1,077,420 (20.4 )% 51 Cost of Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2014 , cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost paid to travel service providers for priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services, net of applicable taxes and charges; (2) fees paid to third parties by KAYAK and priceline.com to return travel itinerary information in response to search queries; and (3) costs related to accruals for travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 decreased by 20.4% , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , primarily due to a decrease in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia, partially offset by a reduction in our accrual related to travel transaction taxes of $6.3 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013, principally related to a favorable agreement and ruling in the District of Columbia. Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Agency revenues principally consist of travel commissions on accommodation reservations. Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Gross Profit $ 7,584,130 $ 5,715,886 32.7 % Gross Margin 89.8 % 84.1 % Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 increased by 32.7% compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 34% ), primarily as a result of the increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , because our revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the year ended December 31, 2014 these revenues represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the year ended December 31, 2013 . Our retail and semi-opaque reservation services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel provider cost have been growing faster than priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $6.6 billion of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 , which compares to $5.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013 . Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 34% for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 . Gross profit attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by approximately 35.4% for the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 . Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 was positively impacted by the inclusion of OpenTable and KAYAK since their acquisitions on July 24, 2014 and May 21, 2013, respectively. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 was negatively impacted by an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia, partially offset by a credit in the fourth quarter of 2013 of $6.3 million , principally related to a favorable agreement and ruling in the District of Columbia. The U.S. Dollar is significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies as of January 31, 2015 compared to 2014. At these exchange rates, the growth of our total and international gross bookings, expressed in U.S. Dollars, will be significantly adversely impacted in 2015. 52 Operating Expenses Advertising Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Online Advertising $ 2,360,221 $ 1,798,645 31.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 31.1 % 31.5 % Offline Advertising $ 231,309 $ 127,459 81.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.0 % 2.2 % Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; and (4) banner, pop-up and other Internet and mobile advertisements. For the year ended December 31, 2014 , online advertising expenses increased 31.2% , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , primarily to generate increased gross bookings. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 benefited from the inclusion of KAYAK and OpenTable because they spend a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other brands. Also, our consolidated results exclude intercompany advertising by our brands on KAYAK since the acquisition on May 21, 2013. In addition, the share of our business coming directly to our websites with no associated online advertising expense increased during the year ended December 31, 2014 . These favorable impacts were almost entirely offset for the year ended December 31, 2014 by (1) a year-over-year decline in advertising ROIs and (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group as Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com grew faster than priceline.com and typically spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising, trends that we expect to continue. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 was negatively impacted by an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia, partially offset by a reduction in our accrual related to travel transaction taxes of $6.3 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013, principally related to a favorable agreement and ruling in the District of Columbia. Offline advertising expenses are primarily related to our Booking.com, KAYAK and priceline.com businesses and primarily consist of television advertising. For the year ended December 31, 2014 , offline advertising increased 81.5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , due to the launch of offline advertising campaigns by Booking.com in Germany, the United Kingdom and Canada in 2014 and Australia in the fourth quarter of 2013, as well as incremental offline advertising by KAYAK. Offline advertising growth for the year ended December 31, 2014 was also impacted by the inclusion of KAYAK in our consolidated results since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Sales and Marketing $ 310,910 $ 235,817 31.8 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.1 % 4.1 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables. For the year ended December 31, 2014 , sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , primarily due to increased gross booking volumes, higher public relations costs and the inclusion of OpenTable since its acquisition on July 24, 2014. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of gross profit are typically higher for our merchant businesses, which incur credit card processing fees. Our merchant business grew more slowly than our agency business, and as a result, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 were favorably impacted compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 . This impact was offset during the year ended December 31, 2014 by the inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 because OpenTable spends a higher percentage of gross profit on sales and marketing than our agency businesses. 53 Personnel Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Personnel $ 950,191 $ 698,692 36.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 12.5 % 12.2 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes and employee health benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses. The inclusion of OpenTable and KAYAK in our consolidated results since their acquisitions on July 24, 2014 and May 21, 2013, respectively, contributed to this increase in personnel expenses. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $186.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to $140.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 . Stock-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 includes charges amounting to $20.6 million and $24.1 million , respectively, representing the impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period for outstanding unvested performance share units. Stock-based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2014 also includes $26.5 million of compensation expense related to 2014 acquisitions. In December 2013, the Dutch Government enacted certain amendments to Dutch tax law including a one-time irrevocable levy on an employer applied to employee earnings, equal to 16% of an employee's earnings in excess of 150,000 Euros. This levy resulted in additional payroll taxes recorded in personnel expense of approximately $12 million (approximately $9 million after tax) in the fourth quarter of 2013. There was no similar tax levy in 2014. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change General and Administrative $ 352,869 $ 252,994 39.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.7 % 4.4 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) personnel related expenses such as travel, recruiting and training expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , due primarily to higher occupancy and office expenses related to the expansion of our international businesses and higher personnel related expenses related to increased headcount in all of our businesses. The inclusion of OpenTable and KAYAK in our consolidated results since their acquisitions on July 24, 2014 and May 21, 2013, respectively, contributed to the increase in general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 . General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 included approximately $6.9 million of professional fees related to consummated acquisitions. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 included approximately $8.5 million of professional fees related to the acquisition of KAYAK. 54 Information Technology Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Information Technology $ 97,498 $ 71,890 35.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.3 % 1.3 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; (3) outsourced data center costs; and (4) payments to outside consultants. Information technology expense increased during the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. The inclusion of OpenTable and KAYAK in our consolidated results since their acquisitions on July 24, 2014 and May 21, 2013, respectively, contributed to the increase in information technology expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 . Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 207,820 $ 117,975 76.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.7 % 2.1 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. For the year ended December 31, 2014 , depreciation and amortization expense increased from the year ended December 31, 2013 due primarily to increased intangible amortization from the OpenTable and KAYAK acquisitions and increased depreciation expense due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com business. Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Interest Income $ 13,933 $ 4,167 234.4 % Interest Expense (88,353 ) (83,289 ) 6.1 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (9,444 ) (36,755 ) (74.3 )% Total $ (83,864 ) $ (115,877 ) (27.6 )% For the year ended December 31, 2014 , interest income on cash and marketable securities increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , primarily due to an increase in the average invested balance and higher yields. Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes issued in August 2014 and September 2014 and interest expense attributable to our Senior Convertible Notes issued in May 2013, partially offset by early conversions of our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 2015. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $13.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared with foreign exchange gains of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 , which are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 55 Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, of $17.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to foreign exchange transaction losses of $10.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 , are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the year ended December 31, 2014 , we delivered cash of $122.9 million to repay the aggregate principal amount and issued 300,256 shares of our common stock and paid cash of $2.2 million in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount associated with our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 2015 that were converted prior to maturity. The conversion of our convertible debt prior to maturity resulted in a non-cash loss of $6.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to a non-cash loss of $26.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 , which is recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Income Tax Expense $ 567,695 $ 403,739 40.6 % Our effective tax rates, expressed as income tax expense as a percentage of earnings before income taxes, for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were 19.0% and 17.6% , respectively. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%, due to lower tax rates outside the United States, partially offset by U.S. state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. Our effective tax rate was higher for the year ended December 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 , primarily due to the acquisitions of OpenTable on July 24, 2014 and KAYAK on May 21, 2013, both of which are principally taxed at the higher U.S. tax rates. Under Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying "innovative" activities is taxed at a rate of 5% ("Innovation Box Tax") rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities confirming that a portion of its earnings is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment. The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid through December 31, 2017. Until our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, most of our U.S. income will not be subject to a cash tax liability, other than federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our non-U.S. income except in countries where we have operating loss carryforwards. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income faster than the U.S. business over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international businesses generate an increasing share of our pre-tax income. We will be subject to increased income taxes in the event that our cash balances held outside the United States are remitted to the United States. As of December 31, 2014 , we held approximately $6.9 billion of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments outside of the United States. We currently intend to use our cash held outside the United States to reinvest in our non-U.S. operations. If our cash balances outside the United States continue to grow and our ability to reinvest those balances outside the United States diminishes, it will become increasingly likely that we will be subject to additional income tax expense in the United States with respect to our unremitted non-U.S. earnings. We would not make additional income tax payments unless we were to actually repatriate our international cash to the United States. We would pay only U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and certain U.S. state income taxes as long as we have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset our U.S. taxable income. This could result in us being subject to a cash income tax liability on the earnings of our U.S. businesses sooner than would otherwise have been the case. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests $ $ 135 NA We purchased the remaining outstanding shares underlying the redeemable noncontrolling interests in April 2013. 56 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2013 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2012 Operating and Statistical Metrics Gross bookings resulting from accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our international and U.S. operations for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2013 2012 Change International $ 33,300 $ 23,370 42.5 % Domestic 5,873 5,086 15.5 % Total $ 39,173 $ 28,456 37.7 % Gross bookings increased by 37.7% for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012 (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 38%), principally due to growth of 36.9% in accommodation room night reservations and growth of 37.0% in rental car day reservations. The 42.5% increase in international gross bookings (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 42%) was primarily attributable to growth in hotel and accommodation room night reservations for our Booking.com and agoda.com businesses, as well as growth in rental car day reservations for our rentalcars.com business. Domestic gross bookings increased by 15.5% for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to an increase in priceline.com's retail airline ticket service, Express Deals hotel reservation service, and retail rental car service, partially offset by a decline in our Name Your Own Price opaque hotel reservation service (driven in part by customer shift to Express Deals ). Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2013 2012 Change Agency $ 32,672 $ 23,284 40.3 % Merchant 6,501 5,172 25.7 % Total $ 39,173 $ 28,456 37.7 % Agency gross bookings increased 40.3% for the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily due to growth in Booking.com accommodation room night reservations, as well as growth in priceline.com's retail airline ticket and rental car services. Merchant gross bookings increased 25.7% for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to an increase in the sale of agoda.com accommodation room night reservations, priceline.com Express Deals hotel room night reservations, rentalcars.com rental car day reservations and Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservations, partially offset by a decline in our Name Your Own Price opaque hotel reservation service. Units sold for accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2013 2012 Change Room Nights 270.5 197.5 36.9 % Rental Car Days 43.9 32.0 37.0 % Airline Tickets 7.0 6.4 9.1 % 57 Accommodation room night reservations increased by 36.9% for the year ended December 31, 2013, over the same period in 2012, principally due to an increase in Booking.com, agoda.com and priceline.com Express Deals and retail accommodation room night reservations, partially offset by a decline in our Name Your Own Price opaque hotel room night reservations in part due to a concerted effort to emphasize Express Deals over Name Your Own Price in our offline advertising campaigns. Booking.com, our most significant brand, includes over 425,000 properties on its website as compared to about 275,000 properties last year (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate and our core European market. Our priceline.com agency hotel reservations benefited from the integration of the growing number of properties on the Booking.com extranet. Rental car day reservations increased by 37.0% for the year ended December 31, 2013, over the same period in 2012, due to an increase in rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and priceline.com. Airline ticket reservations increased by 9.1% for the year ended December 31, 2013, over the same period in 2012, due to an increase in Name Your Own Price and price-disclosed airline ticket reservations. Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, GDS reservation booking fees related to certain travel services and customer processing fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Substantially all of the revenue for Booking.com is agency revenue comprised of travel commissions. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer's credit card for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of Name Your Own Price hotel room night, rental car and airline ticket reservations and vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by travel service providers in connection with (a) the accommodation room reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service at agoda.com and priceline.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at rentalcars.com and merchant Express Deals hotel service at priceline.com, which allows customers to see the price of the reservation prior to purchase but not the identity of the travel service provider; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of Name Your Own Price hotel room night, rental car and airline ticket reservations and merchant price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from KAYAK for sending referrals to travel service providers and OTAs as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile applications. Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2013 2012 Change Agency Revenues $ 4,410,689 $ 3,142,815 40.3 % Merchant Revenues 2,211,474 2,104,752 5.1 % Advertising and Other Revenues 171,143 13,389 1,178.2 % Total Revenues $ 6,793,306 $ 5,260,956 29.1 % 58 Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased 40.3% compared to the same period in 2012, primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com. Our priceline.com agency revenues benefited from growth in our retail rental car business as well as the integration on the priceline.com website of the growing number of properties on the Booking.com extranet. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased 5.1% compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to increases in our agoda.com hotel reservation service, rentalcars.com rental car reservation service and priceline.com Express Deals hotel reservation and Name Your Own Price air services, partially offset by a decline in Name Your Own Price opaque hotel revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012. Merchant revenue growth over the prior year period was substantially lower than merchant gross bookings growth because our merchant revenues are disproportionately affected by our Name Your Own Price service. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding supplier cost recorded in cost of revenues, and represented a smaller percentage, year-over-year, of total revenues compared to our faster-growing agoda.com, rentalcars.com and priceline.com Express Deals services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of supplier cost. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2013 consisted primarily of advertising revenues. Advertising revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes $154.5 million as a result of the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013, and excludes intercompany revenues earned by KAYAK from other Priceline Group brands. Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2013 2012 Change Cost of Revenues $ 1,077,420 $ 1,177,275 (8.5 )% Cost of Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2013, cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of Name Your Own Price rental cars from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes; (3) the cost of Name Your Own Price airline tickets, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets; (4) the cost of vacation packages from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes; and (5) the cost related to accruals for travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 decreased by 8.5%, primarily due to a decrease in our Name Your Own Price hotel reservation service, partially offset by increases in our other Name Your Own Price services and higher accruals for travel transaction taxes. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia, partially offset by a reduction in our accrual related to travel transaction taxes of $6.3 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013, principally related to a favorable agreement and ruling in the District of Columbia. Cost of revenue for the year ended December, 2012 includes an accrual of approximately $21 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and in the District of Columbia. Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Agency revenues principally consist of travel commissions on accommodation reservations. 59 Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2013 2012 Change Gross Profit $ 5,715,886 $ 4,083,681 40.0 % Gross Margin 84.1 % 77.6 % Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased by 40.0% compared to the same period in 2012, primarily as a result of increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, because our revenues are disproportionately affected by our Name Your Own Price service. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the year ended December 31, 2013 represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the same period in 2012. Our retail and semi-opaque services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of supplier cost have been growing faster than our Name Your Own Price services. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $5.02 billion of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013, which compares to $3.56 billion for the same period in 2012. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 40% for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012. Gross profit attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by approximately 32.5% for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 was positively impacted by the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 was negatively impacted by an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia, partially offset by a credit in the fourth quarter of 2013 of $6.3 million, principally related to a favorable agreement and ruling in the District of Columbia. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2012 was negatively impacted by an accrual of approximately $21 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and in the District of Columbia. Operating Expenses Advertising Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2013 2012 Change Online Advertising $ 1,798,645 $ 1,273,637 41.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 31.5 % 31.2 % Offline Advertising $ 127,459 $ 35,492 259.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.2 % 0.9 % Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; (4) banner, pop-up and other Internet advertisements; and (5) e-mail campaigns. For the year ended December 31, 2013, online advertising expenses increased 41.2% over the same period in 2012, primarily to generate increased gross bookings. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit increased for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012 due to (1) lower ROIs for our online advertising, (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group and (3) channel mix within certain of our brands. Our online advertising ROIs were down year-over-year for the year ended December 31, 2013. Furthermore, our international brands are generally growing faster than our U.S. brands, and typically spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. Finally, certain of our brands are obtaining an increasing share of traffic through paid online advertising channels. The inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013 had a favorable impact on online advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 because KAYAK spends a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other brands, and our consolidated results exclude intercompany advertising by our brands on 60 KAYAK. This favorable impact will benefit year-over-year comparisons until the anniversary of the acquisition on May 21, 2014. Offline advertising expenses are related to our television, print and radio advertising for our Booking.com, priceline.com and KAYAK businesses. For the year ended December 31, 2013, offline advertising increased 259.1% compared to the same period in 2012, due mainly to Booking.com launching in the United States its first offline advertising campaign in 2013, as well as the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Booking.com also launched an offline advertising campaign in Australia in the fourth quarter of 2013. Booking.com recently launched offline advertising campaigns in Canada and the United Kingdom and may expand its offline advertising into other markets during 2014. Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2013 2012 Change Sales and Marketing $ 235,817 $ 195,934 20.4 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.1 % 4.8 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables; and (4) provisions for credit card chargebacks. For the year ended December 31, 2013, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2012, primarily due to increased gross booking volumes as well as expenses related to increased content translations and the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of gross profit are typically higher for our merchant business, which incurs credit card processing fees. Our merchant business grew more slowly than our agency business, and as a result, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 declined compared to the same period in 2012. In addition, our agoda.com business achieved a year-over-year decline in its sales and marketing expense per transaction. Personnel Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2013 2012 Change Personnel $ 698,692 $ 466,828 49.7 % % of Total Gross Profit 12.2 % 11.4 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes and employee health benefits. For the year ended December 31, 2013, personnel expenses increased over the same period in 2012, due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses and the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $140.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to $71.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Stock-based compensation expense of $30.9 million for KAYAK unvested assumed employee stock options and payroll taxes of $3.4 million for KAYAK stock option exercises were recorded during the year ended December 31, 2013. Stock-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 also includes charges amounting to $24.1 million and $0.9 million, respectively, representing the cumulative impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period for outstanding unvested performance share units. In July 2012 and December 2013, the Dutch Government enacted certain amendments to Dutch tax law including a one-time irrevocable levy on an employer applied to employee earnings, equal to 16% of an employee's earnings in excess of 150,000 Euros. This levy resulted in additional payroll taxes recorded in personnel expense of approximately $12 million (approximately $9 million after tax) in the fourth quarter of 2013 and approximately $14 million (approximately $10 million after tax) principally recorded in the third quarter of 2012. 61 General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2013 2012 Change General and Administrative $ 252,994 $ 173,171 46.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.4 % 4.2 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) personnel related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses; (2) occupancy expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2013 over the same period in 2012, primarily due to higher recruiting, training and travel expenses related to increased headcount in all our businesses, higher occupancy and office expenses related to the expansion of our international businesses, and the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 included approximately $8.5 million of professional fees related to the acquisition of KAYAK. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012 includes approximately $3 million of professional fees related to the acquisition of KAYAK and a charge of approximately $3 million related to certain leased space that was vacated in connection with the relocation of Booking.com's headquarters to a new location in Amsterdam. Information Technology Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2013 2012 Change Information Technology $ 71,890 $ 43,685 64.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.3 % 1.1 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) outsourced data center costs; (2) system maintenance and software license fees; (3) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the increase in information technology expenses compared to the same period in 2012 was due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations and the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2013 2012 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 117,975 $ 65,141 81.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.1 % 1.6 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office equipment and furniture and fixtures. For the year ended December 31, 2013, depreciation and amortization expense increased from the same period in 2012 due primarily to intangible amortization from the KAYAK acquisition for $33.4 million, and increased depreciation expense due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com brand. 62 Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2013 2012 Change Interest Income $ 4,167 $ 3,860 8.0 % Interest Expense (83,289 ) (62,064 ) 34.2 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (36,755 ) (9,720 ) 278.1 % Total $ (115,877 ) $ (67,924 ) 70.6 % For the year ended December 31, 2013, interest income on cash and marketable securities increased over the same period in 2012, primarily due to an increase in the average invested balance partially offset by lower yields. Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to an increase in the average outstanding debt resulting from the May 2013 issuance of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes and the March 2012 issuance of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared with foreign exchange gains of $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in losses of $10.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to foreign exchange transaction losses of $10.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company delivered cash of $414.6 million to repay the aggregate principal amount and issued 972,235 shares of its common stock in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount associated with the 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 2015 that were converted prior to maturity. The conversion of our convertible debt prior to maturity resulted in a non-cash loss of $26.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, and is recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2013 2012 Change Income Tax Expense $ 403,739 $ 337,832 19.5 % Our effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were 17.6% and 19.2%, respectively. Our effective tax rate differs from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%, principally due to lower tax rates outside the United States, partially offset by state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. Our effective tax rates were lower for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, due to growth in our international businesses. According to Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying "innovative" activities is taxed at a rate of 5% ("Innovation Box Tax") rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities in February 2011 confirming that a portion of its earnings is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment. The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid through December 31, 2017. 63 Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2013 2012 Change Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests $ 135 $ 4,471 (97.0 )% Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest is lower for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, mainly due to a reduction in redeemable noncontrolling interests. We purchased the remaining outstanding shares underlying the redeemable noncontrolling interests in April 2013. 64 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2014 , we had $8.0 billion in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments. Approximately $6.9 billion is held by our international subsidiaries and is denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars, Euros and, to a lesser extent, British Pounds Sterling and other currencies. We currently intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of the United States. If we repatriate cash to the United States, we would utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and beyond that amount incur additional tax payments in the United States. Cash equivalents, short-term investments, and long-term investments are comprised of U.S. and foreign corporate bonds, U.S. and foreign government securities, high grade commercial paper, foreign equity securities, U.S. government agency securities, U.S. municipal securities and bank deposits. In October 2011, we entered into a $1.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.00% to 1.50%; or (ii) the greatest of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association's prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50%. Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.10% to 0.25%. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $100.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50.0 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2014 , there were no borrowings under the facility, and approximately $4.0 million of letters of credit issued under the facility. On July 24, 2014, we acquired OpenTable, Inc., a leading provider of online restaurant reservations, in a cash transaction for a purchase price of approximately $2.5 billion (approximately $2.4 billion net of cash acquired) or $103.00 per share of OpenTable common stock. We funded the acquisition from cash on hand in the United States and $995 million borrowed under our revolving credit facility, which was repaid during the third quarter of 2014. In August 2014, we issued in a private placement $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due 2021, with an interest rate of 0.9%. Interest on the notes is payable on March 15 and September 15 of each year. We used approximately $147.3 million of the net proceeds to concurrently repurchase outstanding shares of our common stock. We intend to use the remaining net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include repurchases of our common stock from time to time, repaying outstanding debt and corporate acquisitions. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these notes. In August 2014, we used $500 million of our non-U.S. cash to invest in a five-year senior convertible note issued by Ctrip.com International Ltd. ("Ctrip"). Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2014 , we invested $421.9 million of our non-U.S. cash in Ctrip American Depositary Shares. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these investments. In September 2014, we issued 1.0 billion Euro aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2024, with an interest rate of 2.375%. Interest on the notes is payable annually on September 23, beginning September 23, 2015. We intend to use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include repurchases of our common stock from time to time, repaying outstanding debt and corporate acquisitions. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these notes. In the third and fourth quarters of 2014, we repurchased 114,645 shares of our common stock in privately negotiated, off-market transactions and 438,897 shares of our common stock in the open market for aggregate costs of $147.3 million and $500.0 million , respectively. As of December 31, 2014 , we had a remaining aggregate amount of $7.2 million authorized by our Board of Directors to purchase our common stock. On February 5, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to an additional $3.0 billion of our common stock. We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital, and other factors. Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from our customers and then we pay most of our travel service providers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant seasonal swings in deferred merchant bookings and travel service provider payables depending on the absolute level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. 65 During the year ended December 31, 2014 , we paid $122.9 million to satisfy the aggregate principal amount due and issued 300,256 shares of our common stock and paid cash of $2.2 million in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount for debt converted prior to maturity related to the conversion of our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 2015. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 , was $2.9 billion , resulting from net income of $2.4 billion and a favorable impact of non-cash items not affecting cash flows of $518.0 million , slightly offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $25.4 million . The changes in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2014 , were primarily related to a $203.9 million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, offset by a $182.2 million increase in accounts receivable and $48.9 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were primarily associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2013, was $2.3 billion, resulting from net income of $1.9 billion, a favorable impact of non-cash items not affecting cash flows of $355.7 million and net favorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $52.9 million. The changes in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2013, were primarily related to a $182.2 million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, partially offset by a $111.6 million increase in accounts receivable. The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were primarily associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount, a non-cash loss on convertible notes converted prior to maturity, and deferred income taxes. Net cash used in investing activities was $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 were affected by payments of $2.5 billion for acquisitions, net of cash acquired and net cash payments of $80.3 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts slightly offset by net sales of investments of $350.3 million and a change in restricted cash of $9.3 million . Net cash used in investing activities was $2.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2013 were affected by net purchases of investments of $1.7 billion, payments of $331.9 million for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, a change in restricted cash of $2.8 million, and net cash payments of $78.6 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts. Cash invested in the purchase of property and equipment was $131.5 million and $84.4 million in the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The increase in 2014 was related to additional data center capacity and new offices to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com business. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily consisted of total proceeds of $2.3 billion from the issuance of Convertible Senior Notes and Euro denominated Senior Notes, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $23.4 million and the exercise of employee stock options of $16.4 million , partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $750.4 million and payments of $125.1 million related to the conversion of Senior Notes. Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $403.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. The cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2013 was primarily related to payments for treasury stock purchases of $883.5 million, $192.5 million spent to purchase the remaining shares underlying noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com, $414.6 million to satisfy the aggregate principal amount due upon the early conversion of senior notes, and $1.0 million of debt issuance costs, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of convertible senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion, $91.6 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options, and $17.7 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Contingencies A number of jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against online travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). In addition, a number of U.S. states, counties and municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes. To date, the majority of taxing jurisdictions in which we facilitate the making of travel reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on our travel services. With respect to jurisdictions that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect taxes from us only on a prospective basis. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and proceedings and Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. " in this Annual Report. 66 As a result of this litigation and other attempts by jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual for the potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes in the amount of approximately $52 million at December 31, 2014 and approximately $55 million at December 31, 2013 . Our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded. An estimate for a reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount accrued cannot be reasonably made. We believe that, even if we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash, it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. The following table represents our material contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2014 (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements): Payments due by Period (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More than 5 Years Operating lease obligations $ 437,386 $ 79,902 $ 133,436 $ 93,157 $ 130,891 Senior Notes (1) 4,681,331 102,891 102,478 1,084,534 3,391,428 Revolving credit facility (2) 3,212 1,938 1,274 Earnout - acquisition 10,700 10,700 Total (3) $ 5,132,629 $ 184,731 $ 237,188 $ 1,188,391 $ 3,522,319 _____________________________ (1) Represents the aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes outstanding as of December 31, 2014 and interest of $434 million. Convertible debt does not reflect the market value in excess of the outstanding principal amount because we can settle the conversion premium amount in cash or shares of common stock at our option. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) Represents fees on uncommitted funds and outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2014 . (3) We reported "Other long-term liabilities" of $104 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2014 , of which approximately $52 million related to our accrual for the potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and approximately $32 million related to unrecognized tax benefits (see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). A variety of factors could affect the timing of payments for these liabilities. We believe that these matters will likely not be resolved in the next twelve months and accordingly we have classified the estimated liability as "non-current" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. We have excluded "Other long-term liabilities" in the amount of $93 million from the contractual obligations table because we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of such payments. On December 15, 2014, our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 became convertible at the option of the holders without regard to our stock price and will remain convertible without regard to our stock price until the trading day prior to the maturity date of March 15, 2015. If the holders elect to convert, we will be required to pay the aggregate principal amount in cash and we have elected to deliver cash for the conversion value in excess of the aggregate principal amount. We would likely fund our conversion obligations from cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, if during that period or thereafter, we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plan, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, revenue growth or sustained profitability may not be realized, and future borrowings or equity sales may not be available in amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies or repay our indebtedness. 67 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. As of December 31, 2014 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.