Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the adjustments resulting from the adoption of new accounting standards effective January 1, 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 As Adjusted 2007 As Adjusted 2006 As Adjusted 2005 As Adjusted (In thousands, except per share amounts) Total revenues $ 2,338,212 $ 1,884,806 $ 1,409,409 $ 1,123,103 $ 962,660 Cost of revenues 1,077,449 928,835 769,997 722,004 694,797 Gross profit 1,260,763 955,971 639,412 401,099 267,863 Total operating expenses(1) 789,928 666,497 501,477 339,113 231,979 Operating income(1) 470,835 289,474 137,935 61,986 35,884 Total other expense 28,533 13,369 16,074 1,761 181 Income tax benefit (expense)(2) 47,168 (90,171 ) 23,537 14,594 156,277 Equity in income (loss) income of investees 2 (310 ) (321 ) (1,393 ) 1,295 Net income(1)(2) 489,472 185,624 145,077 73,426 193,275 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests(3) 3,378 4,679 2,161 546 Net income applicable to common stockholders of priceline.com Incorporated (1)(2) 489,472 182,246 138,843 69,338 190,875 Net income applicable to common stockholders per basic common share(1)(2) 11.54 4.64 3.69 1.86 4.87 Net income applicable to common stockholders per diluted share(1)(2) 9.88 3.74 3.05 1.61 4.21 Total assets 1,834,224 1,312,421 1,334,017 1,045,509 754,028 Long-term obligations, redeemable noncontrolling interests and redeemable preferred stock(4) 263,708 459,928 724,144 554,469 290,283 Total liabilities 476,610 538,520 672,492 578,931 347,828 Total stockholders equity(5) 1,321,629 698,826 453,625 390,368 392,730 (1) The Company recorded a $55.4 million expense related to a litigation settlement in 2007. (2) The Company recorded non-cash income tax benefits for the year ended December 31, 2009, resulting from the reversal of a portion of its valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards of $183.3 million. The Company also recorded income tax benefits in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, amounting to $47.9 million, $28.1 million and $170.5 million, respectively, resulting from a reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to domestic net operating loss carryfowards generated from operating losses. (3) In September 2008, the Company repurchased all of the remaining outstanding shares underlying noncontrolling interests. (4) Includes convertible debt which is classified as a current liability as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. (5) Includes noncontrolling interests of $23.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. 53 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the Section entitled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Form 10-K. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, this discussion contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Risk Factors. Overview We are a leading online travel company that offers our customers a broad range of travel services, including hotel rooms, car rentals, airline tickets, vacation packages, cruises and destination services. Internationally, we offer our customers hotel room reservations in over 90 countries and 32 languages. In the United States, we offer our customers a unique choice: the ability to purchase travel services in a traditional, price-disclosed manner or the opportunity to use our unique Name Your Own Price service, which allows our customers to make offers for travel services at discounted prices. We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include, among others, the brands Booking.com worldwide and Agoda in Asia. Our principal goal is to be the leading worldwide online hotel reservation service. Our business is driven primarily by international results. During the year ended December 31, 2009, our international business the significant majority of which is currently generated by Booking.com represented approximately 61% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately 75% of our consolidated operating income. Given that our international business is primarily comprised of hotel reservation services, commissions earned in connection with the reservation of hotel room nights has come to represent a substantial majority of our gross profit. Because our domestic services include merchant Name Your Own Price travel services, which are reported on a gross basis, while both our domestic and international retail travel services are primarily recorded on a net basis, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of the sale of Name Your Own Price and retail travel services and, consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business. At present, we derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from the sale of price-disclosed hotel room reservation, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our Name Your Own Price hotel room, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as our vacation packages service; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our price-disclosed merchant hotel room service; Global distribution system (GDS) reservation booking fees related to both our Name Your Own Price airline ticket, hotel room and rental car services, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car services; and 54 Table of Contents Other gross profit derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites. The worldwide recession continues to negatively affect the broad travel market and, as a result, our business. Since the onset of the worldwide recession, hotel operators have reported significant decreases in occupancy rates (a common metric that measures hotel customer usage) and average daily rates (ADRs) in the United States, Europe and Asia. While these trends have recently shown signs of stabilization, there can be no assurance that the worldwide recession will not worsen or continue or that the worldwide recession will not have further negative impact on the travel industry and, as a result, our business. Our recent performance has been aided by several factors that will likely not be present in future periods and, as a consequence, our year-over-year financial comparisons will be progressively more difficult in 2010, particularly in the second half of 2010. First, we believe our gross bookings and earnings growth rates reflected favorable year-over-year comparisons in the second half of 2009 due to weak economic conditions in the third and fourth quarters of 2008 (i.e., we began to see the effects of the worldwide recession on our business at the end of the third quarter 2008). Second, many travel suppliers have discounted or reduced their fares or rates, which we believe has helped to stimulate demand for leisure travel. We believe that these factors, among others, positively impacted our second half 2009 financial results and helped our business perform well in the wake of the world wide recession. We believe that these positive influences may not be present in future periods, which will make for less favorable and progressively more difficult year-over-year comparisons in 2010, particularly in the second half of 2010. For example, year-to-date in 2010, we have seen a deceleration in year-over-year hotel room night reservations as compared to the year-over-year growth rate in the fourth quarter of 2009. In 2010, we expect year-over-year growth rates in hotel room night reservations to resume the pattern of deceleration we began to experience before the onset of the worldwide recession. Large, established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating and intend to further create inroads into online travel. For example, Google recently launched Google City Tours , an application that offers multi-day travel itineraries in destinations around the world, and Microsoft recently launched Bing Travel , a meta-search site, which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online and predicts the best time to purchase them. Meta-search sites leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the searchers specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers. These initiatives, among others, illustrate Googles and Bings clear intention to more directly appeal to travel consumers by showing consumers more detailed travel results, including specific information for travelers own itineraries, which could lead to suppliers or others gaining a larger share of Googles or Bings traffic or may ultimately lead to search engines maintaining transactions within their own websites. If Google, as the single largest search engine in the world, or Bing or other leading search engines refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, it could result in, among other things, more competition from supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. International Trends . The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet adoption rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the United States. However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. In addition, the base of hotel suppliers in Europe is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the top online hotel service provider in Europe. 55 Table of Contents As our international operations have become significant contributors to our results and international hotel bookings have become of increased importance to our earnings, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in certain of our operating expenses and other financial metrics. For example, because our international operations utilize online search and affiliate marketing as the principal means of generating traffic to their websites, our online advertising expense has increased significantly over recent years, a trend we expect to continue throughout 2010. In addition, and as discussed in more detail below, we have seen the effects of seasonal fluctuations on our operating results change as a result of different revenue recognition policies that apply to our price-disclosed services (including our international hotel service) as compared to our Name Your Own Price services. Another impact of the growing importance that our international operations represent to our business is our increased exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. Because we are conducting a significant and growing portion of our business outside the United States and are reporting our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation. Our international operations contributed approximately $852.0 million to our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, which compares to $619.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 (year-over-year growth of approximately 37%). Revenue attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, however, by approximately 46% in the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the same period in 2008. Recently, the U.S. Dollar has strengthened against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling. In general, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens against the local currency, the translation of our foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in decreased net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses, and net income. From time to time, we enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results. Such derivative instruments are short term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuation that could impact our foreign currency denominated gross bookings, revenue or gross profit. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts. Domestic Trends . Competition in domestic online travel remains intense and traditional online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantage. In June 2007, we eliminated processing fees for our price-disclosed airline ticket service, and in April 2008, we reduced processing fees for our domestic price-disclosed merchant hotel room service. As a result, since those dates, we had a pricing advantage against other major online travel agents with respect to these travel services. Starting in March 2009, Expedia also eliminated air booking fees. Later in March 2009, Travelocity matched the Expedia change and in April 2009, Orbitz followed. As a result, we no longer have the price advantage that we have had against our major competitors on price-disclosed airline tickets since June 2007. Similarly, in April 2009, each of Expedia and Orbitz reduced booking fees on hotel room reservations, and we therefore no longer have a price advantage over those companies on price-disclosed merchant hotel room reservations. In addition, in May 2009, Orbitz announced a price guarantee program under which a customer who books a prepaid hotel stay will receive money back from Orbitz if another Orbitz customer books the exact same stay in terms of room type, travel dates and number of travelers. In addition, in October 2009, Travelocity announced the waiver of its cancellation and change fees for hotel and vacation packages, as well as an expanded hotel guarantee, under which consumers who book a hotel room and then find a lower published rate for the same room anytime before the day of check-in are eligible to receive a refund of the difference. Our business may be adversely impacted as a result of no longer having a price advantage over our direct competitors in the U.S., as seen in the fourth quarter 2009, where domestic gross bookings growth decelerated from the previous quarter, and we may be adversely impacted by future promotional initiatives by our competitors. While demand for online travel services continues to experience annualized growth, we believe that the domestic market share of third-party distributors, like priceline.com, has declined over the last several years and that the growth of the domestic online market for travel services has slowed. We believe the decline in market share is attributable, in part, to (1) a concerted initiative by travel suppliers to direct 56 Table of Contents customers to their own websites in an effort to reduce distribution expenses and establish more direct control over their pricing, and (2) a price advantage in that the suppliers generally do not charge a processing fee. However, with the recent elimination and reduction of processing and other fees by all of the major online travel companies, we believe that the domestic market share of third party distributors has stabilized and potentially increased during 2009. In addition, recent decreases in domestic airline capacity, the threat of carrier bankruptcies and the emerging prospect of industry consolidation, as evidenced by the recent merger of Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines, could further reduce the amount of airline tickets available to us. Furthermore, we have recently observed a year-over-year decline in passenger traffic and airfares across the airline industry, which we believe is principally due to the worldwide recession and higher oil prices in 2008. Decreases in capacity and lower traveler demand negatively impact our domestic air business, which in turn has negative repercussions on our domestic hotel and rental car businesses. Our rental car business has been further impacted by recent decreases in rental car fleets, which have led to increases in retail rental car rates. Higher retail rental car rates negatively impact demand for our retail rental car service, while decreases in rental car availability negatively impact our Name Your Own Price rental car service. In January 2010, Toyota recalled over 8 million vehicles due to faulty accelerator pedals, leading to further strain on rental car companies fleets and increased retail rental car rates. Despite these challenges, we continue to believe that the market for domestic online travel services is an attractive market with continued opportunity for growth. We also rely on fees paid to us by global distribution systems, or GDSs, for travel bookings made in the U.S. through GDSs for a portion of our gross profit and operating income. Connectivity to a GDS does not guarantee us access to the content of a travel supplier such as an airline or hotel company. We have agreements with a number of suppliers to obtain access to content, and are in continuing discussions with others to obtain similar access. If we were denied access to a suppliers full content or had to incur service fees in order to access or book such content, our results could suffer. We believe that our success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain profitability, primarily from our hotel business, to continue to promote the Booking.com brand internationally, the priceline.com brand in the United States, the Agoda brand in Asia and, over time, to offer other travel services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, terrorist attacks, travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, increases in fuel prices, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related accidents, unusual weather patterns, including natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis or earthquakes, or the withdrawal from our system of a major hotel supplier or airline, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and impair our ability to effectively implement all or some of the initiatives described above. For example, in 2008, civil unrest in Thailand, a key market for our Agoda business, negatively impacted booking volumes at the time, and future civil or political unrest would further disrupt Agodas business. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve operating results. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to improve volume and sustain gross margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will sustain revenue growth and profitability. Seasonality . Our Name Your Own Price services are generally non-refundable in nature, and accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking is generated. However, we recognize revenue generated from our retail hotel services, including our international operations, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel. As a result, a meaningful amount of retail hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations, will not be recognized as revenue until future quarters. From a cost perspective, however, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which 57 Table of Contents bookings are generated. Therefore, if our retail hotel business continues to grow, we expect our quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal factors. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are based upon the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our significant accounting policies and estimates are more fully described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting policies and estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. In applying those policies, our management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the items described below. Those estimates are based on, among other things, historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies that involve significant estimates and judgments of management include the following: Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance . We periodically evaluate the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future income, the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. Based on managements assessment of positive and negative evidence, we recorded non-cash tax benefits in 2009 and 2007 of $183.3 million and $47.9 million, respectively, resulting from the reversal of a portion of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets. The deferred tax asset at December 31, 2009 amounted to $319.7 million. The valuation allowance may need to be adjusted in the future if facts and circumstances change, causing a reassessment of the amount of deferred tax assets more likely than not to be realized. Accounting for State and Local Hotel Occupancy Taxes . As discussed in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are currently involved in approximately forty-five lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and our merchant hotel business. In addition, over fifty municipalities or counties, and at least two states, have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax). Additional state and local jurisdictions are likely to assert that we are subject to, among other things, hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and could seek to collect such taxes, retroactively and/or prospectively. Historically, we have not collected hotel occupancy or other taxes on the gross profit earned from merchant hotel transactions; 58 Table of Contents however, starting in September 2009, we are collecting and remitting occupancy tax in accordance with an amended ordinance for the City of New York. The ultimate resolution of these matters in all jurisdictions cannot be determined at this time. We have established a reserve for potential resolution of issues related to hotel occupancy and other taxes for prior and current periods, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances. We accrue for legal contingencies where it is probable that a loss has occurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated; our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount of the reserve. A variety of factors could affect the amount of the liability (both past and future), which factors include, but are not limited to, the number of, and amount of gross profit represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement and changes in relevant statutes. The ultimate resolution of these matters may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Stock-Based Compensation. We record stock-based compensation expense for equity-based awards over the recipients service period based upon the grant date fair value of the award. A number of our equity awards have performance targets (a performance contingency) which, if satisfied, can increase the number of shares issued to the recipients at the end of the performance period or, in certain instances, if not satisfied, reduce the number of shares issued to the recipients, sometimes to zero, at the end of the performance period. The performance periods for our performance based equity awards are typically three years. We record stock-based compensation expense for these performance-based awards based upon our estimate of the probable outcome at the end of the performance period (i.e., the estimated performance against the performance targets). We periodically adjust the cumulative stock-based compensation recorded when the probable outcome for these performance-based awards is updated based upon changes in actual and forecasted operating results. Our actual performance against the performance targets could differ materially from our estimates. We record stock-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures. In determining the estimated forfeiture rates, we periodically review actual and projected forfeitures. To the extent that actual or projected forfeiture rates differ from current estimates, such amounts are recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which the estimate is revised. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. Booking.com earns agency commissions from hotel transactions and we are therefore subject to potential write-offs. We provide an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon the age of the commission receivables, taking into consideration past experience and current trends. In addition, because we are the merchant of record in Name Your Own Price transactions, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards on our website as well as other payment disputes with our customers. We are also held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards in certain retail transactions when we do not act as merchant of record. Accordingly, we calculate and record an allowance for the resulting credit card charge-backs based upon past experience and current trends. Valuation of Goodwill . We have recorded goodwill related to businesses we have acquired, principally including Booking.com. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment using appropriate valuation techniques. In the event that future circumstances indicate that any portion of our goodwill is impaired, an impairment charge would be recorded. 59 Table of Contents Valuation of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles. We evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate that the carrying amounts of long-lived assets and intangibles may be impaired. The significant factors that are considered that could trigger an impairment review include changes in business strategies, market conditions, or the manner of use of an asset; under performance relative to historical or expected future operating results; and negative industry or economic trends. In evaluating an asset for possible impairment, management estimates that assets future undiscounted cash flows to measure whether the carrying value of the asset is recoverable. If it is determined that the asset is not recoverable, we measure the impairment based upon the fair value of the asset compared to its carrying value. The fair value represents the projected discounted cash flows of the asset over its remaining life. Recent Accounting Pronouncements: Accounting Standards Codification In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance on its Accounting Standards Codification (ASC or Codification) and the hierarchy of U.S. GAAP. Effective July 1, 2009, the FASB launched the Codification which became effective for all interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. Now effective, the Codification is the single official source of authoritative, nongovernmental U.S. GAAP and supersedes all previously issued non-SEC accounting and reporting standards. The Codification as launched did not change U.S. GAAP but organized the accounting literature by topical areas in a user-friendly online research system. The Codification also includes relevant SEC guidance organized using the same topical structure. Specific changes that modify the Codification are communicated by the FASB by the issuance of an Accounting Standard Update (ASU). During 2009 and early 2010, the FASB issued several ASUs that mostly entailed technical corrections to existing guidance or affected guidance to specialized industries or entities. With the exception of the 2010 accounting update that requires additional disclosure on fair value measurements, none of the ASUs to date have had an impact on us. Recent Accounting Pronouncements: Noncontrolling Interests and Convertible Debt Settled in Cash On January 1, 2009, we adopted a new accounting standard dealing with noncontrolling interests (previously referred to as minority interests) that changed the accounting and reporting for noncontrolling interests in the consolidated financial statements. In connection with our acquisitions of Booking.com B.V. in July 2005 and Booking.com Limited in September 2004, key managers of these companies purchased shares of priceline.com International. In addition, these key managers were granted restricted stock and restricted stock units in priceline.com International shares. In September 2008, we repurchased all of the remaining outstanding shares underlying the noncontrolling interests so the adoption of this standard did not impact the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008. This standard is effective for us on a prospective basis, except for presentation and disclosure requirements that are applied retrospectively. Concurrent with the adoption of the new accounting standard for noncontrolling interests, the accounting guidance required that redeemable noncontrolling interests be stated at fair value, with fair value adjustments recorded to equity, and reported as mezzanine (temporary equity) on the balance sheet on a retrospective basis for presentation purposes. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of adopting this standard. On January 1, 2009, we adopted a new accounting standard that impacts the accounting for convertible debt that may be settled in cash. This new standard requires cash settled convertible debt, such as our convertible senior notes, to be separated into debt and equity components at issuance and a 60 Table of Contents value assigned to each. The value assigned to debt is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of a similar bond without the conversion feature. The difference between the bond cash proceeds and this fair value, representing the value assigned to the equity component, is recorded as a debt discount and amortized to interest expense over the life of the bond. In addition, if our convertible debt is redeemed or converted prior to maturity and the fair value of the debt component immediately prior to extinguishment is different from the carrying value, a gain or loss on extinguishment is recognized. This standard also requires that deferred financing costs be allocated between debt (amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method) and equity based on the allocations between debt and equity at debt issuance. Although this standard has no impact on our actual past or future cash flows, it requires us to record a significant amount of non-cash interest expense as the debt discount is amortized. This standard requires retrospective application. See Notes 2 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of adopting this standard. Other Recent Accounting Pronouncements In November 2008, the FASB ratified a proposal that clarifies the accounting for certain transactions and impairment considerations involving entities that acquire or hold investments accounted for under the equity method. This accounting guidance is applied on a prospective basis. The adoption of this standard on January 1, 2009 did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. On January 1, 2009, we adopted a revised accounting standard associated with the accounting for assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. This revised standard requires assets acquired, liabilities assumed, contractual contingencies and contingent consideration in a business combination to be recognized at fair value, at the acquisition date, if (1) the acquisition-date fair value can be determined during the twelve month measurement period or (2) during the twelve month measurement period it is probable that an asset existed or a liability had been incurred at the acquisition date and the asset or liability can be reasonably estimated. Subsequent changes to the estimated fair value of contingent consideration are reflected in earnings until the contingency is settled. Also, contingent consideration arrangements of an acquiree assumed by the acquirer in a business combination will be recognized at fair value at the date of acquisition, with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in earnings. The revised standard requires additional disclosures about recognized and unrecognized contingencies. This standard is effective for acquisitions made after December 31, 2008. The adoption of this standard will change our accounting treatment for business combinations on a prospective basis. On January 1, 2009, we adopted a new accounting standard which provides new disclosure requirements for an entitys derivative and hedging activities. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosures about our derivative instruments. On January 1, 2008, we adopted certain provisions of a new accounting standard which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. On January 1, 2009, we adopted the remaining provisions of this accounting standard as it relates to nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis. In April 2009, the FASB issued further clarification for determining fair value when the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability had significantly decreased and for identifying transaction that were not conducted in an orderly market. This clarification of the accounting standard is effective for interim reporting periods after June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted for periods ending after March 15, 2009. We adopted this clarification of the standard effective for the three months ended March 31, 2009. The adoption of the provisions of this new standard did not materially impact the Consolidated Financial Statements. In January 2010, the accounting requirements for fair value measurements were modified to provide disclosures about transfers into and out of Levels 1 and 2, separate detail of activity relating to Level 3 measurements, and disclosure by class of asset and liability as opposed to disclosure by the major category of assets and liabilities, which was often interpreted as a line item on the balance sheet. The accounting guidance also clarifies for Level 2 and Level 3 measurements that a description of the valuation techniques and inputs used to 61 Table of Contents measure fair value and a discussion of changes in valuation techniques or inputs, if any, is required for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. If the guidance issued in January 2010 is not adopted early, it is effective for the first reporting period, including interim periods, beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the requirement to provide detail activity of Level 3 measurements, which will be effective beginning after December 15, 2010. We will adopt this 2010 guidance effective with the three months ended March 31, 2010. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on fair value measurements. In April 2009, the FASB extended the fair value disclosures currently required on an annual basis for financial instruments to interim reporting periods. This accounting literature also requires entities to disclose the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value of financial instruments on an interim and annual basis and to highlight any changes from prior periods. These new disclosures are effective for interim reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted for periods ending after March 15, 2009. We adopted the new disclosure requirements effective for the three months ended March 31, 2009. See Notes 6 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the fair value of financial instruments. In April 2009, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to other-than-temporary impairments that applies only to debt securities and shifts the focus from an entitys intent and ability to hold until recovery to its intent to sell. If an entity intends to sell, or it is more-likely-than not that it will have to sell, impaired securities before recovery, the adjustment to fair value would be recognized through earnings. If an entity does not intend to sell the impaired debt security but it is probable that the entity will not collect all amounts due, then only the impairment due to credit would be recognized in earnings and the remaining amount of the impairment would be recognized in equity, in other comprehensive income but separately disclosed from other gains or losses on available-for-sale securities. The noncredit portion of the impairment for held-to-maturity securities will be amortized prospectively over the remaining life of the security. This change in accounting is effective for interim reporting ending after June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted for periods ending after March 15, 2009, and applies to existing and new investments held as of the beginning of the interim period in which it is adopted. The adoption of this standard, effective with the three months ended March 31, 2009, did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. In May 2009, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which requires entities to state in their periodic filings the date through which subsequent events were evaluated (either when statements were issued or available to be issued). The date when issued is when the financial statements are widely distributed to shareholders or other users for general use in a format that complies with U.S. GAAP. As a public entity, we are required to make this evaluation through the date that the financial statements are issued. This new standard is effective for interim or annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. We adopted this standard for the six months ended June 30, 2009. In July 2009, the FASB ratified a proposal which deals with the accounting for own share lending agreements contemplated with the issuance of convertible debt. This new accounting guidance applies to equity classified arrangements and requires: (1) the share lender to record the fair value of the arrangement as issuance cost and to amortize the cost to interest expense over the duration of the arrangement; (2) to record a loss equal to the fair value of the shares if it is probable that the shares will not be returned or the share borrower will be unable to pay for the unreturned shares; and (3) to exclude from earnings per share calculations the loaned shares, unless there is an actual default. Additionally, the accounting requirements include certain disclosures about the arrangement. This accounting treatment is effective for new arrangements entered into in periods beginning on or after July 15, 2009. For all other share-lending arrangements, this accounting requirement is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after December 15, 2009, with retrospective application for arrangements outstanding on the effective date. Since we do not currently have any share lending arrangements, this accounting guidance did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 62 Table of Contents In April 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining the useful life of acquired intangible assets. The new guidance removed the requirement to consider whether an intangible asset can be renewed without substantial cost of material modifications to the existing terms and conditions and, instead, required an entity to consider its own historical experience in renewing similar arrangements. This accounting guidance also expanded disclosure related to the determination of intangible asset useful lives. The accounting guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and may impact any intangible assets we acquire in future transactions. In June 2008, the FASB ratified a proposal that addressed the determination of whether an instrument (or an embedded feature) is indexed to an entitys own stock. This accounting guidance is effective for years beginning after December 15, 2008. The adoption of this standard on January 1, 2009 did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2008, accounting guidance was issued for accounting for defensive intangible assets. A defensive asset is an acquired intangible asset where the acquirer has no intention of using, or intends to discontinue use of, the intangible asset but holds it to prevent competitors from obtaining any benefit from it. The acquired defensive asset is treated as a separate unit of accounting and the useful life assigned is based on the period during which the asset will diminish in value. This accounting guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The adoption of this standard may change our accounting treatment for future business combinations. In May 2008, the FASB issued an accounting standard which identified the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles to be used in the preparation of financial statements of non-governmental entities that are presented in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. This standard was effective November 15, 2008. The adoption of this statement did not result in a change in our current practices. In February 2007, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which permitted companies to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. This standard required unrealized gains and losses to be included in earnings for items reported under the fair value option. This standard was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. We did not elect the fair value option. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking activity generated by our travel services. Specifically, reservations of hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units purchased by our customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value inclusive of taxes and fees of all travel services booked by our customers, and is widely used in the travel business. International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings for our international brands and operations, and domestic gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings by our domestic operations, in each case without regard to the location of the travel or the customer purchasing the travel. 63 Table of Contents Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our domestic and international operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change Domestic $ 3.645 billion $ 3.082 billion 18.3 % International 5.665 billion 4.318 billion 31.2 % Total $ 9.310 billion $ 7.400 billion 25.8 % Gross bookings increased by 25.8% for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the same period in 2008, principally due to 49.3% growth in hotel room night reservations, partially offset by year-over-year declines in average selling prices for our hotel and airline ticket services in most markets. The 31.2% increase in international gross bookings was attributable to growth in international hotel room night reservations for our Booking.com and Agoda businesses. Domestic gross bookings increased by 18.3% for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the same period in 2008, primarily due to growth in Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations, price-disclosed airline tickets, merchant price-disclosed hotel room night reservations and price-disclosed rental car days, partially offset by a decline in Name Your Own Price airline tickets. Gross bookings resulting from hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change Agency $ 7.191 billion $ 5.739 billion 25.3 % Merchant 2.119 billion 1.662 billion 27.5 % Total $ 9.310 billion $ 7.400 billion 25.8 % Agency gross bookings increased 25.3% for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the same period in 2008, due to growth in the sale of Booking.com hotel room night reservations, price-disclosed airline tickets and price-disclosed rental car days. Merchant gross bookings increased 27.5% for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the same period in 2008, due to an increase in the sale of Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations, Agoda merchant price-disclosed hotel room night reservations and domestic merchant price-disclosed hotel room night reservations, partially offset by a decline in Name Your Own Price airline tickets. Year Ended Hotel Room Nights Rental Car Days Airline Tickets December 31, 2009 60.9 million 11.2 million 5.9 million December 31, 2008 40.8 million 10.0 million 4.9 million Hotel room night reservations sold increased by 49.3% for the year ended December 31, 2009, over the same period in 2008, due primarily to an increase in the sale of Booking.com agency room night reservations, as well as an increase in the sale of Name Your Own Price room night reservations and Agoda and domestic price-disclosed room night reservations. 64 Table of Contents Rental car days sold increased by 12.4% for the year ended December 31, 2009, over the same period in 2008, due primarily to an increase in the sale of price-disclosed rental car days, as well as an increase in Name Your Own Price rental car days. Airline tickets sold increased by 21.8% for the year ended December 31, 2009, over the same period in 2008, due to an increase in the sale of price-disclosed airline tickets, partially offset by a decline in Name Your Own Price airline tickets. Revenues Merchant revenues are derived from transactions where we are the merchant of record and, among other things, select suppliers and determine the price we will accept from the customer. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations, rental cars and airline tickets and price-disclosed vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in connection with the hotel room reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of Name Your Own Price airline tickets, hotel room reservations and rental cars and merchant price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of our services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, customer processing fees and GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. In June 2007, we eliminated processing fees on the priceline.com price-disclosed airline ticket service. Other revenues are derived primarily from advertising on our websites. We continue to experience a shift in the mix of our travel business from a business historically focused exclusively on the sale of domestic point-of-sale travel services to a business that includes significant sales of international point-of-sale hotel services, a significant majority of which are currently generated in Europe. Because our domestic services include merchant Name Your Own Price travel services, which are reported on a gross basis, while both our domestic and international retail travel services are primarily recorded on a net basis, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of the sale of Name Your Own Price and retail travel services and, consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations contributed approximately $852.0 million to our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, which compares to $619.8 million for the same period in 2008. Revenue attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 46% in the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the same period in 2008. 65 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2009 2008 Change Merchant Revenues $ 1,447,576 $ 1,218,162 18.8 % Agency Revenues 868,395 648,792 33.8 % Other Revenues 22,241 17,852 24.6 % Total Revenues $ 2,338,212 $ 1,884,806 24.1 % Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased 18.8%, compared to the same period in 2008, primarily due to an increase in the sale of Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations and rental car days, and Agoda and domestic merchant price-disclosed hotel room night reservations, partially offset by a decline in Name Your Own Price airline tickets. Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased 33.8% compared to the same period in 2008, primarily as a result of growth in our international operations. Other Revenues Other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2009 consisted primarily of advertising. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased 24.6% compared to the same period in 2008, primarily as a result of higher online advertising revenues and increased traffic. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2009 2008 Change Cost of Revenues $ 1,077,449 $ 928,835 16.0 % % of Merchant Revenues 74.4 % 76.2 % Cost of Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2009, cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of Name Your Own Price rental cars from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes; and (3) the cost of Name Your Own Price airline tickets from our suppliers, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by 16.0%, compared to the same period in 2008, due primarily to the increase in merchant revenue discussed above. Merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues in the U.S. and at Agoda are recorded in merchant revenues net of the amounts paid to suppliers and therefore, there is no associated cost of revenues for merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues. Cost of revenues as a percentage of their associated merchant revenues decreased primarily due to the increase in merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues, which are recorded on a net basis. Agency revenues are recorded at their net amount, which are amounts received less amounts paid to suppliers, if any, and therefore, there are no costs of agency revenues. 66 Table of Contents Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2009 2008 Change Gross Profit $ 1,260,763 $ 955,971 31.9 % Gross Margin 53.9 % 50.7 % Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by 31.9% compared to the same period in 2008, primarily as a result of increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the same period in 2008, because Name Your Own Price revenues, which are recorded gross with a corresponding cost of revenue, represented a smaller percentage of total revenues compared to retail, price-disclosed revenues which are primarily recorded net with no corresponding cost of revenues. Because Name Your Own Price transactions are reported gross and retail transactions are primarily recorded on a net basis, we believe that gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $848.6 million of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2009, which compares to approximately $615.8 million for the same period in 2008. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 46% in the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the same period in 2008. Operating Expenses Advertising Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2009 2008 Change Offline Advertising $ 36,270 $ 38,032 (4.6 )% % of Total Gross Profit 2.9 % 4.0 % Online Advertising $ 365,381 270,713 35.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 29.0 % 28.3 % Offline advertising expenses consist primarily of: (1) the expenses associated with domestic television, print and radio advertising; and (2) the cost for creative talent, production costs and agency fees for television, print and radio advertising. For the year ended December 31, 2009, offline advertising expenses decreased compared to the same period in 2008 due to lower production and creative talent costs, partially offset by increased television advertising. Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) affiliate programs; (3) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (4) e-mail campaigns. For the year ended December 31, 2009, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2008, primarily due to an increase in online advertising expenses to support increased price-disclosed agency hotel room night reservations booked by Booking.com as well as increased U.S. travel bookings, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Our international operations rely primarily on online advertising, in particular keyword purchases and payments to affiliate advertisers, to support their businesses. 67 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2009 2008 Change Sales and Marketing $ 81,238 $ 77,948 4.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 6.4 % 8.2 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-party service providers that operate the call centers for our priceline.com business; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables. For the year ended December 31 , 2009, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2008, primarily due to increased credit card processing fees and call center costs associated with increased gross booking volumes, partially offset by decreased bad debt provision and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. The decrease in bad debt provision in 2009 was due to improved collection rates for agency commissions from hotels and the stabilization of economic conditions in general, and the hotel sector in particular as compared to 2008. Credit card processing fees in 2009 reflect a benefit of $1.0 million related to a litigation settlement with certain credit card companies. Personnel Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2009 2008 Change Personnel $ 180,152 $ 163,785 10.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 14.3 % 17.1 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses, taxes, employee health benefits and stock-based compensation. For the year ended December 31, 2009, personnel expenses increased over the same period in 2008, due primarily to increased compensation expenses associated with headcount growth, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $40.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and $40.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2009 2008 Change General and Administrative $ 68,555 $ 55,267 24.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 5.4 % 5.8 % 68 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses; (2) occupancy expenses; and (3) personnel related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2009, over the same period in 2008, due to additional fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses primarily related to hotel occupancy and other tax proceedings, and increased occupancy expenses associated with new Booking.com offices, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Additionally, we recorded a charge in the amount of $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 related to a judgment in a lawsuit involving hotel occupancy taxes (see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details). Information Technology Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2009 2008 Change Information Technology $ 19,139 $ 17,956 6.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.5 % 1.9 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) system maintenance and software license fees; (2) outsourced data center costs relating to our domestic and international data centers; (3) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our Internet sites; and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the increase in information technology expenses compared to the same period in 2008 was primarily associated with increased information technology expenses related to our international operations, partially offset by a decrease in information technology expenses related to our domestic operations. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2009 2008 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 39,193 $ 42,796 (8.4 )% % of Total Gross Profit 3.1 % 4.5 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) amortization of internally developed and purchased software, (3) depreciation of computer equipment; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office equipment and furniture and fixtures. For the year ended December 31, 2009, depreciation and amortization expense decreased from the same period in 2008 by $3.6 million, primarily due to fully amortizing certain intangibles during the year ended December 31, 2008. 69 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2009 2008 Change Interest Income $ 2,223 $ 11,660 (80.9 )% Interest Expense (24,084 ) (34,853 ) (30.9 )% Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (6,672 ) 9,824 (167.9 )% Total $ (28,533 ) $ (13,369 ) 113.4 % For the year ended December 31, 2009, interest income on cash and marketable securities decreased over the same period in 2008, principally due to lower prevailing interest rates. Interest expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the same period in 2008, primarily due to convertible debt conversions. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the effect on interest expense of adopting a new accounting standard that impacts the accounting for convertible debt that may be settled in cash. Foreign currency transactions and other includes foreign exchange losses of $2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and foreign exchange gains of $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, related to foreign exchange derivative contracts. Foreign exchange losses of $2.9 million on transactions were recorded for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $0.3 million of gains for the year ended December 31, 2008. A loss of $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, resulted from convertible debt conversions, compared to a gain of $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition, Foreign currency transactions and other includes a loss of $0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 to reflect a permanent impairment in the value of a corporate note included in long-term investments. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details about the adjustments to other income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2008. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2009 2008 Change Income Tax Benefit (Expense) $ 47,168 $ (90,171 ) (152.3 )% Our effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was (10.7)% and 32.7%, respectively. Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 differs from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%, principally because it includes tax benefits of $183.3 million resulting from the reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryfowards. 70 Table of Contents Other items contributing to the difference between our effective tax rate and the statutory tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 include lower foreign tax rates and the foreign tax benefit of interest expense on intercompany debt, partially offset by state income taxes. Due to our significant NOLs, we do not expect to pay significant cash taxes on our U.S. federal taxable income for the foreseeable future. We expect to make cash payments for foreign taxes, U.S. state income taxes and U.S. federal alternative minimum tax. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for details about the non-cash income tax benefits for the year ended December 31, 2009, and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details about the adjustment to income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2008. Equity in Income (Loss) of Investees Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2009 2008 Change Equity in Income (Loss) of Investees $ 2 $ (310 ) (100.6 )% Equity in income (loss) of investees for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 represented our pro rata share of pricelinemortgage.coms net results. In July 2009, pricelinemortgage.com was dissolved, and we received $8.9 million in cash for our 49% equity investment in pricelinemortgage.com. We do not expect the dissolution of our investment in pricelinemortgage.com to materially impact future periods. Noncontrolling Interests Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2009 2008 Change Noncontrolling Interests $ $ 3,378 (100.0 )% Noncontrolling interests for the year ended December 31, 2008, represented income associated with the ownership of priceline.com International that was held by former shareholders of Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited, including certain European based managers of that business. In September 2008, we repurchased all of the remaining outstanding shares of priceline.com International and, as a result, there are no longer any noncontrolling interests in priceline.com International. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 71 Table of Contents Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking activity generated by our travel services. Specifically, reservations of hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units purchased by our customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value inclusive of taxes and fees of all travel services booked by our customers, and is widely used in the travel business. International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings for our international brands and operations, and domestic gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings by our domestic operations, in each case without regard to the location of the travel or the customer purchasing the travel. Gross bookings resulting from hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our domestic and international operations for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change Domestic $ 3.082 billion $ 2.154 billion 43.0 % International 4.318 billion 2.675 billion 61.4 % Total $ 7.400 billion $ 4.829 billion 53.2 % Gross bookings resulting from hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change Agency $ 5.739 billion $ 3.585 billion 60.1 % Merchant 1.662 billion 1.244 billion 33.5 % Total $ 7.400 billion $ 4.829 billion 53.2 % Gross bookings increased by 53.2% for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to the same period in 2007. The increase was primarily attributable to 61.4% growth in our international gross bookings, virtually all of which relates to retail hotel room night sales (including the $316 million favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates). Domestic gross bookings increased by 43.0%, primarily due to growth in the sale of price-disclosed airline tickets (due in part to the elimination of booking fees in June of 2007), Name Your Own Price hotel room nights, merchant price-disclosed hotel room nights and Name Your Own Price airline tickets. Agency gross bookings increased 60.1% for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to the same period in 2007, due to growth in Booking.com hotel operations and in the sale of price-disclosed airline tickets due in part to the elimination of booking fees in June of 2007. Merchant gross bookings increased 33.5% for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to the same period in 2007, due to an increase in the sale of Name Your Own Price hotel room nights, the inclusion of room nights sold by 72 Table of Contents Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007, domestic merchant price-disclosed hotel room nights and Name Your Own Price airline tickets. Agoda gross bookings amounted to $118.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Hotel Room Rental Airline Year Ended Nights Car Days Tickets December 31, 2008 40.8 million 10.0 million 4.9 million December 31, 2007 27.8 million 8.6 million 2.9 million Hotel room nights sold increased by 46.9% for the year ended December 31, 2008, over the same period in 2007, primarily due to an increase in the sale of Booking.com agency room nights, an increase in the sale of Name Your Own Price room nights, the inclusion of merchant room nights sold by Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007, and an increase in the sale of domestic, price-disclosed room nights. Rental car days sold increased by 15.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008, over the same period in 2007, due to increases in sales of both our price-disclosed and Name Your Own Price rental car services. Airline tickets sold increased by 65.3% for the year ended December 31, 2008, over the same period in 2007, due primarily to an increase in the sale of price-disclosed airline tickets due in part to our elimination of processing fees in June 2007 and increased marketing support. Revenues Merchant revenues are derived from transactions where we are the merchant of record and, among other things, select suppliers and determine the price we will accept from the customer. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of Name Your Own Price hotel rooms, rental cars and airline tickets and price-disclosed vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in connection with the hotel rooms provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of Name Your Own Price airline tickets, hotel rooms and rental cars and merchant price-disclosed hotels; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of our services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, customer processing fees and GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. In June 2007, we eliminated processing fees on the priceline.com price-disclosed airline ticket service. Other revenues are derived primarily from advertising on our websites. We continue to experience a shift in the mix of our travel business from a business historically focused exclusively on the sale of domestic point-of-sale travel services to a business that includes significant sales of international point-of-sale hotel services, a significant majority of which are currently generated in Europe. Because our domestic services include merchant Name Your Own Price travel services, which are reported on a gross basis, while both our domestic and international retail travel services are primarily recorded on a net basis, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of the sale of merchant and retail travel services and, consequently, gross profit has become an 73 Table of Contents increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations contributed approximately $619.8 million to our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, which compares to $372.6 million for the same period in 2007. Approximately $11.3 million of this increase is due to favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007, accounted for approximately $17.0 million of the revenue attributable to our international operations for the year ended December 31, 2008. Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2008 2007 Change Merchant Revenues $ 1,218,162 $ 1,002,824 21.5 % Agency Revenues 648,792 398,246 62.9 % Other Revenues 17,852 8,339 114.1 % Total Revenues $ 1,884,806 $ 1,409,409 33.7 % Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased 21.5% compared to the same period in 2007, primarily due to an increase in the sale of Name Your Own Price hotel room nights and airline tickets and the inclusion of revenues generated by Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007. In addition, in the year ended December 31, 2007, merchant revenues were positively impacted by an excise tax refund of $18.6 million (see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Our international operations contributed approximately $21.3 million to our merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, which compares to $5.6 million for the same period in 2007. Agoda contributed approximately $17.0 million of the merchant revenue attributable to our international operations for the year ended December 31, 2008. Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased 62.9% compared to the same period in 2007, primarily as a result of growth in our international operations, which contributed approximately $598 million of agency revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008, and approximately $367 million of agency revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. Approximately $11.7 million of this increase is due to favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Other Revenues Other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2008 consisted primarily of advertising revenues. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased 114.1%, compared to the same period in 2007, primarily as a result of higher online advertising revenues due primarily to new advertising partner relationships added during 2007, increased traffic due in part to the elimination of booking fees on price-disclosed airline tickets in June 2007, and the inclusion of revenue generated by an online advertising company acquired in December 2007. 74 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2008 2007 Change Cost of Revenues $ 928,835 $ 769,997 20.6 % % of Revenues 49.3 % 54.6 % Cost of Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2008, cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost of Name Your Own Price hotel rooms from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of Name Your Own Price airline tickets from our suppliers, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets; and (3) the cost of Name Your Own Price rental cars from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 20.6%, compared to the same period in 2007, due primarily to the increase in merchant revenue discussed above. Merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues in the U.S. and at Agoda are recorded in merchant revenues net of the amounts paid to suppliers and therefore, there is no associated cost of revenues for merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues. Agency revenues are recorded at their net amount, which are amounts received less amounts paid to suppliers, if any, and therefore, there are no costs of agency revenues. Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, $(000) 2008 2007 Change Gross Profit $ 955,971 $ 639,412 49.5 % Gross Margin 50.7 % 45.4 % Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 49.5% compared to the same period in 2007, primarily as a result of increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to the same period in 2007, because Name Your Own Price transactions, whose revenues are recorded gross with a corresponding cost of revenue, represented a smaller percentage of transactions compared to retail, price-disclosed transactions which are primarily recorded net with no corresponding cost of revenues. In the year ended December 31, 2007, gross profit and gross margin were also positively impacted by the $18.6 million excise tax refund recorded in merchant revenue in the year ended December 31, 2007 (see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Because Name Your Own Price transactions are reported gross and retail transactions are primarily recorded on a net basis, we believe that gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $616 million of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2008, which compares to $369.0 million for the same period in 2007. Approximately $11.6 million of this increase is due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007, accounted for approximately $17.0 million of the gross profit attributable to our international operations for the year ended December 31, 2008. 75 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Advertising Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2008 2007 Change Offline Advertising $ 38,032 $ 35,963 5.8 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.0 % 5.6 % Online Advertising 270,713 172,676 56.8 % % of Total Gross Profit 28.3 % 27.0 % Offline advertising expenses consist primarily of: (1) the expenses associated with domestic television, print and radio advertising; and (2) the cost for creative talent, production costs and agency fees for television, radio and print advertising. For the year ended December 31, 2008, offline advertising expenses were higher than in the same period in 2007 primarily as a result of increased costs related to creative talent, television production and increased print and radio advertising, partially offset by decreased television advertising during the period. Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) affiliate programs; (3) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (4) e-mail campaigns. For the year ended December 31, 2008, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2007, primarily due to an increase in online advertising expenses to support significantly increased price-disclosed agency hotel room nights booked by Booking.com as well as increased U.S. travel bookings. The increase also reflects the inclusion of online advertising expenses related to price-disclosed merchant hotel room nights booked through Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007. Both Booking.com and Agoda rely primarily on online advertising, in particular keyword purchases and payments to affiliate advertisers, to support their businesses. Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2008 2007 Change Sales and Marketing $ 77,948 $ 47,158 65.3 % % of Total Gross Profit 8.2 % 7.4 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-party service providers that operate the call centers for our priceline.com business; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables. For the year ended December 31, 2008, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2007, primarily due to (1) increased gross booking volumes; (2) increased bad debt provision due to slower payment of agency commissions by hotels and to reflect the potential for increased losses resulting from the worldwide recession and the related impact on the financial health of our hotel partners; (3) increased credit card chargeback activity (including chargeback activity aggregating approximately $1.5 million in the first six months of 2008 associated with the bankruptcies of two of our airline suppliers); and (4) the inclusion of sales and marketing expenses related to Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007 and which has experienced higher customer chargeback activity than our other merchant services. 76 Table of Contents Personnel Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2008 2007 Change Personnel $ 163,785 $ 102,992 59.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 17.1 % 16.1 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses, taxes, employee health benefits and stock-based compensation. For the year ended December 31, 2008, personnel expenses increased over the same period in 2007, primarily due to increased stock-based compensation expense, personnel expenses associated with head count growth of Booking.com, the acquisition of Agoda in November 2007, and increased employee performance bonus expense. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $40.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $16.3 million, for the year ended December 31, 2007. Stock-based compensation expense increased over the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the same period in 2007, due to headcount increases, higher stock prices at grant date and increases in the estimated probable number of shares to be issued upon completion of specified performance periods for our performance-based grants (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2008 2007 Change General and Administrative $ 55,267 $ 91,837 (39.8 )% % of Total Gross Profit 5.8 % 14.4 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses; (2) occupancy expenses; and (3) personnel related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased during the year ended December 31, 2008, over the same period in 2007, due to a $55.4 million expense related to a litigation settlement in 2007. Excluding the litigation settlement, general and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2008, over the same period during 2007, due to additional fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses and expenses related to the evaluation of acquisition opportunities, increased occupancy expenses associated with new Booking.com offices, and the inclusion of general and administrative expenses related to Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007. 77 Table of Contents Information Technology Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2008 2007 Change Information Technology $ 17,956 $ 13,779 30.3 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.9 % 2.2 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) system maintenance and software license fees; (2) outsourced data center costs relating to our domestic and international data centers; (3) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our Internet sites; and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the increase in information technology expenses compared to the same period in 2007 was primarily associated with the growth of Booking.com, and the inclusion of Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2008 2007 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 42,796 $ 37,072 15.4 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.5 % 5.8 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) amortization of internally developed and purchased software, (3) depreciation of computer equipment; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office equipment and furniture and fixtures. For the year ended December 31, 2008, depreciation and amortization expense increased from the same period in 2007, primarily as a result of increased amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives, depreciation and amortization related to investment increases in Booking.com, and the inclusion of depreciation and amortization related to Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007. Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2008 2007 Change Interest Income $ 11,660 $ 25,776 (54.8 )% Interest Expense (34,853 ) (38,574 ) (9.6 )% Foreign Currency Transactions and Other 9,824 (3,276 ) (399.9 )% Total $ (13,369 ) $ (16,074 ) (16.8 )% 78 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2008, interest income on cash and marketable securities decreased over the same period in 2007, due to lower prevailing interest rates and investments in higher quality, lower yielding securities. In addition, interest income for the year ended December 31, 2007 included approximately $3.3 million of interest received on our excise tax refund. Interest expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the same period in 2007 due primarily to the conversion of approximately $176.9 million principal amount of convertible notes. Foreign exchange gains of $4.3 million and losses of $3.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were recorded in Foreign currency transactions and other, and were principally related to foreign exchange derivative contracts. In addition, Foreign currency transactions and other includes a loss in the amount of $0.8 million to reflect an other-than-temporary impairment in the value of a corporate note, included in long-term investments, and a gain of $6.0 million for debt conversions resulting from the adoption of a new accounting standard related to convertible debt for the year ended December 31, 2008. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on the adjustments. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2008 2007 Change Income Tax (Expense) Benefit $ (90,171 ) $ 23,537 (483.1 )% The provision for income taxes includes U.S. and international income taxes determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate. Income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2007 includes non-cash tax benefits of (1) $47.9 million, resulting from the reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on our domestic deferred tax assets and (2) $3.6 million resulting from the recognition of foreign capital allowance carryforwards. In addition, our effective tax rate differs from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% principally due to lower foreign tax rates and the foreign tax benefit of interest expense on intercompany debt, partially offset by state income taxes and certain non-deductible stock-based compensation expense. Due to our significant net operating loss carryforwards, we do not expect to pay significant cash taxes on our U.S. federal taxable income for the foreseeable future. We expect to make cash payments for international income taxes, U.S. alternative minimum tax and certain U.S. state income taxes. Despite robust growth in our domestic earnings during 2008, the valuation allowance has not been reduced due to inherent uncertainty and the likely negative potential impact the current worldwide recession will have on our future operating results and future realization of our deferred tax assets. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details about the adjustment to income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Equity in Loss of Investees Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2008 2007 Change Equity in Loss of Investees $ 310 $ 321 (3.3 )% 79 Table of Contents Equity in loss of investees for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, represented our pro rata share of pricelinemortgage.coms net results. Noncontrolling Interests Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2008 2007 Change Noncontrolling Interests $ 3,378 $ 4,679 (27.9 )% Noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, represented income associated with the ownership of priceline.com International that was held by former shareholders of Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited, including certain European based managers of that business. The change versus the prior year was primarily due to a reduction in the noncontrolling interests held by former shareholders of priceline.com International, partially offset by an increase in the earnings of priceline.com International. In September 2008, we repurchased all of the remaining outstanding shares of priceline.com International and, as a result, there are no longer any noncontrolling interests in priceline.com International. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2009, we had $800.2 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Approximately $534.6 million of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are held by our international subsidiaries and are denominated primarily in Euros and, to a lesser extent, in British Pound Sterling. Cash equivalents and short-term investments are primarily comprised of foreign government securities, U.S. Treasury money market accounts and U.S. government securities. All of our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from our customers and then we pay most of our suppliers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant swings in supplier payables depending on the absolute level of our cost of revenue during the last few weeks of every quarter. This can cause volatility in working capital levels and impact cash balances more or less than our operating income would indicate. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009, was $509.7 million, resulting from net income of $489.5 million and net favorable changes in working capital of $67.7 million, partially offset by a net unfavorable impact of $47.5 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows. Non-cash items include the benefit of $183.3 million from the reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, primarily from acquisition-related intangible assets, amortization of debt discount and loss on conversions of our convertible notes. The changes in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2009, were related to an $86.8 million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, partially offset by a $22.8 million increase in accounts receivable. The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volume. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $315.6 million, resulting from net income of $185.6 million, non-cash items not affecting cash flows of $141.0 million and partially offset by $11.0 million of changes in working capital. The changes in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2008, were primarily related to a $48.0 million increase in 80 Table of Contents accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by a $37.0 million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to growth in revenues, partially offset by an increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts. The increase in allowance for doubtful accounts resulted primarily from slower payment of agency commissions by hotels and to reflect the potential for increased losses resulting from the worldwide recession and the related impact on the financial health of our hotel partners. A majority of the increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities was related to increases in accrued affiliate commissions, deferred merchant bookings related to our merchant business and bonus accrual. Non-cash items were primarily associated with deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of debt discount, gain on conversions of our convertible notes, and depreciation and amortization, primarily from acquisition-related intangible assets. Net cash used in investing activities was $501.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Investing activities were affected by $490.0 million net purchase of marketable securities, a payment of $5.0 million to settle derivative contracts and a payment of $1.5 million for acquisitions and other equity investments, net of cash acquired, partially offset by $8.9 million received in connection with the dissolution of pricelinemortgage.com and a reduction in restricted cash of $1.2 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $151.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Investing activities were affected by the purchase of $154.0 million of stock in priceline.com International held by noncontrolling interests, $1.2 million increase in restricted cash and acquisitions and other equity investments of $0.6 million. Investing activities were also affected by $22.2 million of net maturities of investments for the year ended December 31, 2008. Cash invested in purchase of property and equipment was $15.1 million and $18.3 million in the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $169.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The cash used in financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2009 was primarily related to $197.1 million of principal paid upon the conversion of senior notes, $17.4 million of treasury stock purchases, partially offset by $43.4 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and $2.1 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $168.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The cash used in financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2008 was primarily related to $176.9 million of principal paid upon the conversion of senior notes, $4.4 million of treasury stock purchases, partially offset by $5.5 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and $7.0 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. The following table represents our material contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2009 (see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements): Payments due by Period (in thousands) Less than 1 1 to 3 3 to 5 More than Contractual Obligations Total Year Years Years 5 Years Operating lease obligations $ 43,640 $ 20,320 $ 16,139 $ 5,396 $ 1,785 Convertible debt(1) 197,639 197,639 Total $ 241,279 $ 217,959 $ 16,139 $ 5,396 $ 1,785 (1) At December 31, 2009, our convertible debt is convertible at the option of the holder because the contingent conversion thresholds on each of the Notes were exceeded. Convertible debt represents the aggregate principal amount of the Notes and interest of $1.8 million for 2010. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Based upon the closing price of our common stock for the prescribed measurement periods during the three months ended December 31, 2009, the contingent conversion thresholds on each of our convertible senior note issues were exceeded. As a result, the notes (aggregate principal amount $195.9 million) are convertible at the option of the holder as of December 31, 2009 and, accordingly, have been classified as a current liability and in convertible debt in mezzanine on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of that 81 Table of Contents date. As of February 18, 2010, we have received conversion notices from holders of approximately $98 million outstanding principal amount that will be settled in the first quarter 2010. When holders elect to convert, we are required to settle the principal amount of the notes in cash and we intend to satisfy any conversion premium in shares of common stock. We would likely fund the repayment of the principal amount with existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments (totaling approximately $800.2 million at December 31, 2009) and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. In connection with our acquisition of Agoda in 2007, contingent consideration of up to $141.6 million is payable in 2011 if Agoda achieves specified gross bookings and earnings targets for the period of January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010. In September 2007, we entered into a $175 million five-year committed revolving credit facility with a group of lenders, which is secured, subject to certain exceptions, by a first-priority security interest on substantially all of our assets and related intangible assets located in the United States. In addition, our obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by substantially all of the assets and related intangible assets of our material direct and indirect domestic and foreign subsidiaries. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Associations prime lending rate and (b) the federal funds rate plus of 1%, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.25% to 0.75%; or at an adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.25% to 1.75%. Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.25% to 0.375%. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $50.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans, which are available in U.S. Dollars, Euros, Pound Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings outstanding under the facility and we have issued approximately $2.4 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit facility. We believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, if during that period or thereafter, we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plan, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted. There are no assurances that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, that revenue growth or sustained profitability will be realized or that future borrowings or equity sales will be available in amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies or repay our indebtedness. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. As of December 31, 2009, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 82 Table of Contents