Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements " in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, " this discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in " Risk Factors " and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a leading provider of online travel and travel related services. We connect consumers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world. We offer consumers accommodation reservations (including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels, apartments, vacation rentals and other properties) through our Booking.com, priceline.com and agoda.com brands. Our priceline.com brand also offers consumers reservations for rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages and cruises. We offer rental car reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com. We also allow consumers to easily compare airline ticket, hotel reservation and rental car reservation information from hundreds of travel websites at once through KAYAK's websites and mobile applications (or "apps"). We recently acquired OpenTable, a leading provider of online restaurant reservations. We believe that the online restaurant reservation business is complementary to our online travel businesses, and that both OpenTable and our travel businesses will benefit from adding OpenTable to The Priceline Group. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands, including Booking.com, priceline.com, agoda.com, KAYAK, rentalcars.com and, as of July 24, 2014, OpenTable, collectively as "The Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include Booking.com, agoda.com, KAYAK, rentalcars.com and OpenTable, which are independently managed and operated brands. Our principal goal is to serve consumers and our travel service provider and restaurant partners with worldwide leadership in online reservation services. Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com and the results of the international based websites of KAYAK and, as of July 24, 2014, OpenTable (in each case regardless of where the consumer is resident, from where the consumer makes a reservation or where the service is provided). During the year ended December 31, 2013 , our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 85% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately 94% of our consolidated operating income. A significant majority of our gross profit is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , we derived substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car and vacation package reservation services; Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to OTAs and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; Beginning on July 24, 2014, revenues recognized by OpenTable, which consist of reservation revenues (a fee for each restaurant guest seated through OpenTable's online reservation service), monthly subscription fees and other revenues; and Global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees related to our Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservation services, and price-disclosed airline ticket and rental car reservation services. Our priceline.com brand offers merchant Name Your Own Price opaque travel services, which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue. All of our other services are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between Name Your Own Price travel services and other services. Gross profit reflects the commission or net margin earned for our retail, Name Your Own Price and semi-opaque travel services and our advertising and other services. Consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business because, in contrast to our revenues, it is not affected by the mix between our Name Your Own Price travel services and our other services. 27 Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices, the high growth of travel overall in emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America, and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build accommodation supply, content and distribution and to improve the customer experience on our websites and mobile apps. We experienced strong year-over-year growth in recent years, though that growth has generally decelerated. For example, for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , our accommodation room night reservation growth was 27% compared to 36% in the same period in 2013 . Given the size of our hotel reservation business, we expect that our year-over-year growth rates will continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate. Concerns persist about the outlook for the global economy in general, and the European Union in particular, with recent declines in broad Eurozone economic indicators raising fears about the pace of economic growth and the risk of deflation. In addition, many governments around the world, including the U.S. government and certain European governments, continue to operate at large financial deficits, resulting in high levels of sovereign debt in such countries. Failure to reach political consensus regarding workable solutions to these issues has resulted in a high level of uncertainty regarding the future economic outlook. This uncertainty, as well as concern over governmental austerity measures including higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates and weaker trends in hotel average daily rates ("ADRs") across many regions of the world, particularly in those European countries that appear to be most affected by economic uncertainties. We believe that these business trends are likely impacted by weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns. Disruptions in the economies of such countries could cause, contribute to or be indicative of deteriorating macro-economic conditions. In addition, during periods of elevated uncertainty, the value of the U.S. Dollar compared to other currencies, including the Euro, has often increased, which adversely affects our gross bookings, gross profit, operating income and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars. For example, the U.S. Dollar has significantly strengthened against the Euro during 2014, moving from an exchange rate of 1.38 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of January 1, 2014 to 1.26 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of September 30, 2014. The uncertainty of macro-economic factors and their impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. We compete with both online and traditional travel reservation services. The market for the travel reservation services we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple and Facebook, have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do, and they may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to compete more effectively with us. For example, Google has entered various aspects of the online travel market through its acquisition of ITA Software, Inc., a major flight information software company, in 2011, its hotel meta-search service known as "Hotel Finder" (discussed below) and its recent license of hotel-booking software from Room 77. We currently, or potentially may, compete with a variety of companies, including: online travel reservation services such as those owned by Expedia, Orbitz, Travelocity, Ctrip, Rakuten, eDreams ODIGEO, Jalan and Wotif (which has agreed to be acquired by Expedia); search, social networking and group buying companies, such as Google, Facebook and Groupon; traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators, such as Carlson Wagonlit, American Express, Thomas Cook and Tui Travel, as well as thousands of individual travel agencies around the world; travel service providers such as accommodation providers, rental car companies and airlines; online travel search and price comparison services (generally referred to as "meta-search" services), such as TripAdvisor, trivago (in which Expedia has acquired a majority ownership interest), Qunar and HotelsCombined; and online restaurant reservation services, such as TripAdvisor's LaFourchette and Yelp's SeatMe. TripAdvisor, a leading travel research and review website, Google, the world's largest search engine, and other large, established companies with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic have launched meta-search services and may create additional inroads into online travel, both in the United States and internationally. Meta-search services leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the consumer's specific itinerary across travel service provider (e.g., accommodations, rental car companies or airlines), OTA and other travel 28 websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers. Meta-search services intend to appeal to consumers by showing broader travel search results than may be available through OTAs or other travel websites, which could lead to travel service providers or others gaining a larger share of search traffic. TripAdvisor has begun supporting its meta-search service with offline advertising, and trivago, a leading meta-search service in Europe, has been aggressively advertising in the United States since 2013. Google offers "Hotel Finder", a meta-search service that Google has at times placed at or near the top of its hotel-related search results. Through our KAYAK meta-search service, we compete directly with other meta-search services. KAYAK depends on access to information related to travel service pricing, schedules, availability and other related information from OTAs and travel service providers. As consumers attempt to be more efficient in their shopping behavior, they may favor travel services offered by meta-search websites or search companies over OTAs, which could reduce traffic to our travel reservation websites, increase consumer awareness of our competitors' brands and websites and increase our advertising and other customer acquisition costs. To the extent any such consumer behavior leads to growth in our KAYAK meta-search business, such growth may not result in sufficient increases in profits from our KAYAK meta-search business to offset any related decrease in profits experienced by our OTA brands. Further, meta-search services may evolve into more traditional OTAs by offering consumers the ability to make travel reservations directly through their websites. For example, TripAdvisor facilitates hotel reservations on its transactional websites Tingo and Jetsetter and now allows consumers to make a reservation while staying on TripAdvisor through its "Instant Booking" offering. We currently do not participate in "Instant Booking" and therefore risk losing share of reservations sourced through TripAdvisor. Other meta-search providers may also offer direct booking services with travel service providers, which may lead to more consumers booking directly with a travel service provider rather than an OTA. To the extent consumers book travel services through a meta-search website or directly with a travel service provider after visiting a meta-search website or meta-search utility on a traditional search engine without using an OTA like us, or if meta-search services limit our participation within their search results, we may need to increase our advertising or other customer acquisition costs to maintain or grow our reservation bookings and there could be an adverse effect on our business, gross bookings and results of operations. As a result of our acquisition of OpenTable, we now compete or may in the future compete with other restaurant reservation providers, such as LaFourchette, a European restaurant reservation business recently acquired by TripAdvisor, and Yelp's SeatMe service. Travel service providers, including multi-national hotel chains, rental car companies and airlines with which we conduct business, compete with us in online channels to drive consumers to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors like us. Travel service providers that sell on their own websites may charge lower prices and, in some instances, offer advantages such as loyalty points or special discounts to members of closed user groups (such as loyalty program participants or customers with registered accounts), any of which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than our services. We may need to offer similar advantages to maintain or grow our reservation bookings, which could adversely impact our profitability. Widespread adoption of mobile devices, such as the iPhone, Android-enabled smart phones and tablets such as the iPad, coupled with the improved web browsing functionality and development of thousands of useful "apps" available on these devices, is driving substantial online traffic and commerce to mobile platforms. We have experienced a significant shift of business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Our major competitors and certain new market entrants are offering mobile applications for travel products and other functionality, including proprietary last-minute discounts for accommodation reservations. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. The gross profit earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. Further, given the device sizes and technical limitations of tablets and smart phones, mobile consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps from multiple companies providing a similar service and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their mobile travel and restaurant research and reservation activity. As a result, the consumer experience with mobile apps as well as brand recognition and loyalty are likely to become increasingly important. Our mobile offerings have received strong reviews and achieved solid download trends, and are driving a material and increasing share of our business. We believe that mobile bookings present an opportunity for growth and are necessary to maintain and grow our business as consumers increasingly turn to mobile devices instead of a personal computer and to mobile applications in addition to a web browser. If we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly and differentiated mobile offerings and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our mobile apps are not downloaded and used by consumers, we could lose market share to existing competitors or new entrants and our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. 29 Apple, Inc., one of the most innovative and successful companies in the world and producer of, among other things, the iPhone and iPad, obtained a patent for "iTravel," a mobile app that would allow a traveler to check in for a travel reservation. In addition, Apple's iPhone operating system includes "Passbook," a virtual wallet app that holds tickets, boarding passes, coupons and gift cards, and along with iTravel, may be indicative of Apple's intent to enter the travel reservations business in some capacity. Apple has substantial market share in the smart phone category and controls integration of offerings, including travel services, into its mobile operating system. Apple also has more experience producing and developing mobile apps and has access to greater resources than we have. Apple may use or expand iTravel, Passbook, Siri (Apple's voice recognition "concierge" service), Apple Pay (Apple's new mobile payment system) or another mobile app or functionality as a means of entering the travel reservations marketplace. Similarly, Google's Android operating system is the leading smart phone operating system in the world. As a result, Google could leverage its Android operating system to give its travel services a competitive advantage, either technically or with prominence on its Google Play app store or within its mobile search results. To the extent Apple or Google use their mobile operating systems or app distribution channels to favor their own travel service offerings, our business could be harmed. There has been a proliferation of new channels through which accommodation providers can offer reservations. For example, companies such as HotelTonight, Tingo and Hipmunk have developed new and differentiated offerings that endeavor to provide savings on accommodation reservations to consumers and that compete directly with us. Further, meta-search services may lower the cost for new companies to enter the market by providing a distribution channel without the cost of promoting the new entrant's brand to drive consumers directly to its website. If any of these new services are successful, we may experience less demand for our services and are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted accommodation room rates. In August 2013, Expedia and Travelocity entered into an exclusive, long-term strategic marketing agreement, whereby Expedia powers the technology platforms for Travelocity's websites in the United States and Canada, while providing Travelocity access to Expedia's supply and customer services. To the extent this arrangement enhances Expedia's and/or Travelocity's ability to compete with us in the affected markets, our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected. We use third party websites, including online search engines (primarily Google) and meta-search and travel research services, and affiliate marketing as primary means of generating traffic to our websites. Our online advertising expense has increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue. Various factors can impact whether our online advertising will grow faster or slower than gross profit. Our online advertising returns on investment ("ROIs") have been down year-over-year in recent years, and as a result, our online advertising expense has generally grown more quickly than our gross profit. Furthermore, our international brands are generally growing faster than our U.S. brands, and typically spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising, also resulting in our online advertising growing more quickly than our gross profit. Recently, these negative factors have been slightly offset by an increasing share of traffic coming directly to us, a trend that may or may not continue. We also intend to continue to invest in offline advertising, in particular for our Booking.com, KAYAK and priceline.com brands, and have increased the number of markets we support with offline advertising spend. For example, building on its first offline advertising campaign, which it launched in the United States in 2013, Booking.com has begun offline advertising campaigns in other markets, including Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and Germany. The inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013 had a significant favorable impact on online advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 because KAYAK spends a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other brands, and our consolidated results exclude intercompany advertising by our brands on KAYAK since the acquisition date. This favorable impact benefited year-over-year comparisons through the anniversary of the acquisition on May 21, 2014. The inclusion of OpenTable since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 had a favorable impact on online advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 because OpenTable spent a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other brands. Advertising efficiency is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and the extent to which consumers come directly to our websites or mobile apps for bookings. If Google changes how it presents travel search results or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results in a manner that is competitively disadvantageous to us, whether to support its own travel related services or otherwise, our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites could be harmed. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We rely on online advertising channels to enhance our brand awareness and to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in Internet search engine algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " Further, we have observed increased offline advertising by OTAs, meta-search services and travel service providers, particularly in North America and Europe, which may make such advertising more expensive and less effective. 30 The competition authorities of many governments have begun investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. For example, Booking.com has been the subject of a competition investigation by U.K. competition authorities since July 2012. Other national competition authorities, including those in the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Hungary, Sweden and Switzerland, have more recently opened investigations that focus on Booking.com's rate parity clause in its contracts with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions. We are currently unable to predict the outcome of these investigations or how our business may be affected. Possible outcomes include requiring Booking.com to remove its rate parity clause from its contracts with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions. In the U.K. investigation, Booking.com and the other subjects of the investigation had reached a settlement with the competition authorities; however, that settlement has been vacated on appeal. See Footnote 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " As the size of our business grows, we may become increasingly subject to the scrutiny of anti-trust and competition regulators. " We note that the German competition authority has required Hotel Reservation Service, a leading OTA in Germany, to remove its rate parity clause from its contracts with hotels, though this decision is currently subject to appeal. To the extent that regulatory authorities require changes to our business practices or to those currently common to the industry, our business, competitive position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Negative publicity regarding any such investigations could adversely affect our brand and therefore our market share and results of operations. In addition, we have observed an increase in promotional pricing to closed user groups, including through mobile apps. If we are not as effective as our competition in offering discounted prices to closed user groups or if we are unable to entice members of our competitors' closed user groups to use our services, our ability to grow and compete could be harmed. If we need to fund discounts out of our gross profit, our profitability could be adversely affected. International Trends . The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet adoption rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the United States. However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. We expect that over the long-term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. Our growth has primarily been generated by our international accommodation reservation service brands, Booking.com and agoda.com. Booking.com, our most significant brand, included over 540,000 properties on its website as of November 3, 2014 , which included over 205,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from both a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. As our international business represents the substantial majority of our financial results, we expect to continue to see our operating results and other financial metrics largely driven by international performance. For example, certain markets in which we operate that are in earlier stages of development have lower operating margins compared to more mature markets, which could have a negative impact on our overall margins as these markets increase in size over time. Also, we intend to continue to invest in adding accommodations available for reservation on our websites, including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels and vacation rentals. Vacation rentals generally consist of, among others, properties categorized as single-unit and multi-unit villas, apartments, "aparthotels" (which are apartments with a front desk and cleaning service) and chalets and are generally self-catered (i.e., include a kitchen), directly bookable properties. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms, lower ADRs or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts), and therefore may also negatively impact our margins. For example, because a vacation rental is either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, vacation rental properties represent more limited booking opportunities than non-vacation rental properties, which generally have more units to rent per property. Our non-hotel accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons, weather or other factors. As we increase our non-hotel accommodation business, these different market characteristics could negatively impact our profit margins; and, to the extent these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our websites, our gross bookings growth rate and property growth rate will likely diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of non-hotel accommodations increases, the number of reservations per property will likely decrease. In addition, non-hotel 31 accommodations, including vacation rentals, tend to be more seasonal in nature and may close during "off-season," which impacts our property counts quarter to quarter. Another impact of the size of our international business is our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. Because we conduct a substantial majority of our business outside the United States and report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international business are translated from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation. For example, a strengthening of the Euro increases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars, while a weakening of the Euro decreases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars. Certain European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt have had difficulty refinancing their debt. Concern around devaluation or abandonment of the Euro common currency, or that sovereign default risk may be more widespread and could include the United States, has led to significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the U.S. Dollar and other currencies. We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results. However, such derivative instruments are short-term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact our gross bookings, revenue or gross profit (see Note 5 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). Revenue from our international operations grew year-over-year by approximately 33% and 35% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 on both a local currency basis and as reported in U.S. Dollars. Domestic Trends . Competition in U.S. online travel remains intense and online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantages. In particular, the competition to provide "opaque" hotel reservation services to consumers, an area in which our priceline.com business has been a leader, has become more intense. For example, Expedia makes opaque hotel reservations available through its Hotwire brand and on its principal website under the name "Expedia Unpublished Rates" and has, we believe, supported this initiative with steeper discounts through lower margins. As with priceline.com's opaque Name Your Own Price and Express Deals hotel reservation services, the name of the hotel is not disclosed until after booking the reservation. We believe these offerings, in particular "Expedia Unpublished Rates," have adversely impacted the market share and year-over-year room night reservations growth rate for priceline.com's Name Your Own Price opaque hotel reservation service. If Expedia or others are successful in growing their opaque hotel reservation services, we may have less consumer demand for our opaque hotel reservation services over time, and we would face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. In an effort to compete more effectively against these offerings, in 2012 we launched Express Deals , a semi-opaque price-disclosed hotel reservation service. While Express Deals has been a significant contributor to the improved performance of priceline.com's opaque hotel reservation service, the offering may not ultimately be successful at recovering or growing U.S. discount hotel reservation service market share. As a result of this increased competition, our share of the discount hotel reservation market in the United States could further decrease. While demand for online travel services in the United States continues to experience growth, we believe that the U.S. market share of third-party distributors is impacted in part by a concerted initiative by travel service providers to direct customers to their own websites in an effort to reduce distribution expenses and establish more direct control over their pricing. In addition, high hotel occupancy levels have had an adverse impact on our access to hotel rooms for our opaque hotel reservation services. Further, growth in discounted closed user group retail prices for hotel rooms lessens the price difference for members of closed user groups between a retail hotel reservation and an opaque hotel reservation, which may lead to fewer consumers using our opaque hotel reservation services. U.S. airlines have, at times, reduced capacity and increased fares. Decreases in capacity reduce the amount of airline tickets available, while increases in average airfares can adversely impact leisure travel demand. Generally, reduced airline capacity and demand negatively impact our priceline.com airline ticket reservation service, which in turn can have negative repercussions on our priceline.com hotel and rental car services. Further, consolidation in the airline industry has negatively affected our access to airline tickets for our opaque services. We expect continued variability in the breadth and depth of discounted airline tickets and rental car rates made available to us in the future, depending on market conditions from time to time. Seasonality . A meaningful amount of gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which reservations are booked. However, we generally do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs. As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation checkouts for the year for our European and North American businesses. 32 In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2013 our second quarter year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were adversely affected by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, as it did in 2012. Conversely, our second quarter 2014 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were favorably impacted by Easter falling in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2013. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short-term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable advertising expense. In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters. We experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters. Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results. Other Factors . We believe that our success will depend in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel related services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods and volcanic eruptions, travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities or travel related accidents, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and impair our ability to effectively implement all or some of the initiatives described above. For example, in late 2012 Hurricane Sandy disrupted travel in the northeastern United States. In early 2011, Japan was struck by a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency. In October 2011, severe flooding in Thailand, a key market for our agoda.com business and the Asian business of Booking.com, negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market. In addition, Thailand has recently experienced disruptive civil unrest, which has negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market. In early 2010, Thailand also experienced civil unrest, which caused the temporary relocation of agoda.com's Thailand-based operations. Future natural disasters, health concerns or civil or political unrest could further disrupt our business and operations. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to grow gross profit and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain gross profit growth and profitability. On July 24, 2014, we acquired OpenTable, a leading provider of online restaurant reservations, for $2.5 billion ( $2.4 billion net of cash acquired) and on May 21, 2013, we acquired KAYAK Software Corporation, a leading travel meta-search service, for $2.1 billion ($1.9 billion net of cash acquired). A substantial portion of the total consideration for these acquisitions related to identifiable acquired intangibles and goodwill (see Note 6 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). If OpenTable is unsuccessful in profitably growing its global online restaurant reservation business or it experiences a significant reduction in revenues or profitability due to factors such as competition or any other reason, we may incur an impairment charge related to this goodwill. If KAYAK is unsuccessful in profitably growing its global online travel brand or it experiences a significant reduction in advertising revenues or profitability due to factors such as a loss of continued access to travel services information provided by other OTAs or travel service providers or a reduction in advertising on its websites or mobile apps, we may incur an impairment charge related to this goodwill. 33 Results of Operations Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 compared to the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2013 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel related services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units purchased by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers and is widely used in the travel business. International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com businesses and domestic gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our priceline.com business, in each case without regard to the travel destination or the location of the customer purchasing the travel. We follow a similar approach for reporting the international and domestic revenue and gross profit of those businesses. Gross bookings resulting from accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our international and U.S. operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change International $ 12,080 $ 9,179 31.6 % $ 34,406 $ 25,541 34.7 % Domestic 1,743 1,586 9.9 % 5,235 4,493 16.5 % Total $ 13,823 $ 10,765 28.4 % $ 39,641 $ 30,035 32.0 % Gross bookings increased by 28.4% and 32.0% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to the same periods in 2013 (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 29% and 32% for the three and nine months, respectively), principally due to growth of 26.7% and 29.1% in accommodation room night reservations, 3% growth on a local currency basis in ADRs, growth of 18.1% and 18.6% in rental car day reservations and 8.0% and 17.4% growth in airline ticket reservations for the three and nine months, respectively. International gross bookings grew by 31.6% and 34.7% (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 32% and 35% ) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 . International gross bookings growth was primarily attributable to growth in accommodation room night reservations for our Booking.com and agoda.com businesses, as well as growth in rental car day reservations for our rentalcars.com business. Domestic gross bookings increased by 9.9% and 16.5% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to increases in priceline.com's retail airline ticket, retail hotel, Express Deals hotel and retail rental car services, partially offset by declines in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price hotel and airline ticket reservation services. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Agency $ 11,821 $ 9,023 31.0 % $ 33,917 $ 25,096 35.2 % Merchant 2,002 1,742 15.0 % 5,724 4,939 15.9 % Total $ 13,823 $ 10,765 28.4 % $ 39,641 $ 30,035 32.0 % Agency gross bookings increased 31.0% and 35.2% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to growth in Booking.com accommodation room night reservations, as well as growth in priceline.com's retail airline ticket, rental car and hotel reservation services. Merchant gross bookings increased 15.0% and 15.9% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the 34 same periods in 2013 , primarily due to increases in agoda.com hotel reservation services, rentalcars.com rental car reservation services and priceline.com Express Deals hotel and retail hotel reservation services, partially offset by declines in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price hotel and airline ticket reservation services. Units sold for accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Room Nights 94.8 74.8 26.7 % 267.8 207.4 29.1 % Rental Car Days 14.2 12.0 18.1 % 40.8 34.4 18.6 % Airline Tickets 2.0 1.8 8.0 % 6.1 5.2 17.4 % Accommodation room night reservations increased by 26.7% and 29.1% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , due to an increase in Booking.com, agoda.com and priceline.com accommodation room night reservations. Booking.com, our most significant brand, included over 540,000 properties on its website as of November 3, 2014 (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate and our core European market. Rental car day reservations increased by 18.1% and 18.6% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , due to an increase in price-disclosed rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and priceline.com, partially offset by a decline in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price rental car reservation service. Airline ticket reservations increased by 8.0% and 17.4% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , due to an increase in price-disclosed airline ticket reservations for priceline.com driven primarily by increased paid advertising placements on KAYAK (which began in the third quarter of 2013), partially offset by a decline in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservation service. Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, GDS reservation booking fees related to certain travel services, travel insurance fees and customer processing fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Substantially all of the revenue for Booking.com is agency revenue comprised of travel commissions. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer's credit card for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the price of Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservations and vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged to us by travel service providers in connection with (a) the accommodation reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel reservation services at agoda.com and priceline.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at rentalcars.com and merchant Express Deals services at priceline.com; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with priceline.com's Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservations and merchant price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for sending referrals to OTAs and travel service providers; (2) advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; (3) reservation revenues earned by OpenTable (a fee for each restaurant guest seated through OpenTable's online 35 reservation service); and (4) monthly subscription fees earned by OpenTable. Revenue from KAYAK is net of intercompany revenues earned by KAYAK from other Priceline Group brands. Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Agency Revenues $ 2,099,629 $ 1,576,434 33.2 % $ 4,615,169 $ 3,411,002 35.3 % Merchant Revenues 613,535 620,904 (1.2 )% 1,707,786 1,729,692 (1.3 )% Advertising and Other Revenues 123,333 72,565 70.0 % 278,919 111,459 150.2 % Total Revenues $ 2,836,497 $ 2,269,903 25.0 % $ 6,601,874 $ 5,252,153 25.7 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 increased 33.2% and 35.3% , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com. Our priceline.com agency revenues benefited from growth in our retail rental car, agency hotel and airline ticket businesses. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 decreased 1.2% and 1.3% , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to decreases in revenues from priceline.com's Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservation services, mostly offset by increases in our rentalcars.com business, agoda.com business and priceline.com's Express Deals hotel and retail merchant hotel reservation services. Merchant revenue growth over the prior year period was substantially lower than merchant gross bookings growth because our merchant revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price service. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and represented a smaller percentage, year-over-year, of total revenues compared to our faster-growing agoda.com, rentalcars.com and priceline.com retail merchant hotel and Express Deals services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 consisted primarily of advertising revenues, restaurant reservation revenues and subscription revenues. Other revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 includes $41.2 million of OpenTable revenue earned since its acquisition on July 24, 2014. Cost of Revenues Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Cost of Revenues $ 216,519 $ 280,838 (22.9 )% $ 692,429 $ 869,568 (20.4 )% For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost paid to travel service providers for priceline.com's Name Your Own Price services, net of applicable taxes and charges; (2) fees paid to third parties by KAYAK and priceline.com to return travel itinerary information in response to search queries; and (3) the cost related to accruals for travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). Cost of revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 decreased by 22.9% and 20.4% , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to a decrease in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket services. Cost of revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 includes an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia. Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Agency revenues principally consist of travel commissions on accommodation reservations. 36 Gross Profit Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Gross Profit $ 2,619,978 $ 1,989,065 31.7 % $ 5,909,445 $ 4,382,585 34.8 % Gross Margin 92.4 % 87.6 % 89.5 % 83.4 % Total gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 increased by 31.7% and 34.8% , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily as a result of the increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to the same periods in 2013 , because our revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price service. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 these revenues represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the same periods in 2013 . Our retail and semi-opaque services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs, have been growing faster than priceline.com's Name Your Own Price services. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $2.34 billion and $5.20 billion of our gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , respectively, which compares to $1.77 billion and $3.86 billion, respectively, for the same periods in 2013. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 33% and 35% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to the same periods in 2013 . Gross profit attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by 24% and 36% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to the same periods in 2013 . Gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 was positively impacted by the inclusion of OpenTable since its acquisition on July 24, 2014. Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was positively impacted by the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 was negatively impacted by an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia. Operating Expenses Advertising Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Online Advertising $ 699,814 $ 533,164 31.3 % $ 1,860,317 $ 1,399,452 32.9 % % of Total Gross Profit 26.7 % 26.8 % 31.5 % 31.9 % Offline Advertising $ 71,593 $ 39,891 79.5 % $ 183,093 $ 99,750 83.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.7 % 2.0 % 3.1 % 2.3 % Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; and (4) banner, pop-up and other Internet and mobile advertisements. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , online advertising expenses increased over the same periods in 2013 , primarily to generate increased gross bookings. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 benefited from the inclusion of KAYAK and OpenTable because they spend a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other brands. Also, our consolidated results exclude intercompany advertising by our brands on KAYAK since the acquisition on May 21, 2013. In addition, the share of our business coming directly to our websites with no associated online advertising expense increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. These favorable impacts were almost entirely offset for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 by (1) a year-over-year decline in advertising ROIs and (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group as our international brands grew faster than our U.S. brands and typically spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 was negatively impacted by an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia. 37 Offline advertising expenses are primarily related to our KAYAK, Booking.com and priceline.com businesses and primarily consist of television advertising. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , offline advertising increased by 79.5% and 83.6% , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , due to the launch of offline advertising campaigns by Booking.com in Germany, the United Kingdom and Canada in 2014 and Australia in the fourth quarter of 2013, as well as incremental offline advertising by KAYAK. Offline advertising growth for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was also impacted by the inclusion of KAYAK in our consolidated results since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Sales and Marketing $ 86,092 $ 65,274 31.9 % $ 225,456 $ 177,392 27.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.3 % 3.3 % 3.8 % 4.0 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to increased gross booking volumes as well as the inclusion of OpenTable since its acquisition on July 24, 2014. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of gross profit are typically higher for our merchant business, which incurs credit card processing fees. Our merchant business grew more slowly than our agency business, and as a result, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , declined compared to the same period in 2013 . This impact was offset during the three months ended September 30, 2014 by the inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014. Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of gross profit is higher for OpenTable than our other brands. Personnel Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Personnel $ 259,471 $ 186,443 39.2 % $ 675,854 $ 486,658 38.9 % % of Total Gross Profit 9.9 % 9.4 % 11.4 % 11.1 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation, payroll taxes and employee health benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 over the same periods in 2013 , due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses. The inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 impacted the increase in personnel expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to the same periods in 2013. The inclusion of KAYAK in our consolidated results since its acquisition on May 21, 2013 impacted the increase in personnel expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to the same period in 2013. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $46.1 million and $120.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to $34.6 million and $91.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 , respectively. 38 General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change General and Administrative $ 97,902 $ 63,113 55.1 % $ 261,950 $ 178,195 47.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.7 % 3.2 % 4.4 % 4.1 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) personnel related expenses such as travel, recruiting and training expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 over the same periods in 2013 , due primarily to higher occupancy and office expenses related to the expansion of our international businesses and higher personnel related expenses related to increased headcount in all of our businesses. The inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 impacted the increase in general and administrative expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to the same periods in 2013. The inclusion of KAYAK in our consolidated results since its acquisition on May 21, 2013 impacted the increase in general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to the same period in 2013. General and administrative expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 included approximately $1.3 million and $6.9 million of professional fees related to consummated acquisitions. General and administrative expenses for three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 included approximately $0.1 million and $8.6 million , respectively, of professional fees related to the acquisition of KAYAK. Information Technology Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Information Technology $ 24,802 $ 18,536 33.8 % $ 72,068 $ 48,717 47.9 % % of Total Gross Profit 0.9 % 0.9 % 1.2 % 1.1 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; (3) outsourced data center costs; and (4) payments to outside consultants. Information technology expense increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 over the same periods in 2013, due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. The inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 impacted the increase in information technology expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to the same periods in 2013 . The inclusion of KAYAK in our consolidated results since its acquisition on May 21, 2013 impacted the increase in information technology expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to the same period in 2013. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 57,599 $ 35,747 61.1 % $ 136,262 $ 80,854 68.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.2 % 1.8 % 2.3 % 1.8 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , depreciation and amortization expense increased from the same periods in 2013 due primarily to increased intangible amortization from the OpenTable and KAYAK acquisitions and increased depreciation expense due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com brand. 39 Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Interest Income $ 2,490 $ 867 187.2 % $ 5,165 $ 2,882 79.2 % Interest Expense (22,953 ) (24,135 ) (4.9 )% (57,804 ) (61,097 ) (5.4 )% Foreign Currency Transactions and Other 3,347 (3,278 ) (202.1 )% (4,399 ) (7,002 ) (37.2 )% Total $ (17,116 ) $ (26,546 ) (35.5 )% $ (57,038 ) $ (65,217 ) (12.5 )% For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , interest income on cash and marketable securities increased over the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to an increase in the average invested balance and higher yields. Interest expense decreased for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to a decrease in the average outstanding debt resulting from early conversions of our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 2015, partially offset by interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes issued in August 2014 and September 2014. The decrease in interest expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was also partially offset by interest expense attributable to our Senior Convertible Notes issued in May 2013. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $8.3 million and $12.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to foreign exchange losses of $1.1 million and foreign exchange gains of $1.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 , respectively, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in losses of $5.8 million and $11.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to foreign exchange losses of $2.1 million and $7.9 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 , respectively, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , the Company delivered cash of $121.9 million to repay the aggregate principal amount and issued 299,657 shares of its common stock in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount associated with 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 2015 that were converted prior to maturity. The conversion of our convertible debt prior to maturity resulted in a non-cash loss of $6.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. Income Taxes Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Income Tax Expense $ 243,336 $ 187,362 29.9 % $ 467,485 $ 331,629 41.0 % Our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 were 18.6% and 19.2% , respectively, compared to 18.4% and 18.0% for the same periods in 2013 . Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%, due to lower tax rates outside the United States, partially offset by U.S. state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. Our effective tax rate was higher for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to the acquisitions of OpenTable on July 24, 2014 and KAYAK on May 21, 2013, both of which are principally taxed at the higher U.S. tax rates. According to Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying "innovative" activities is taxed at a rate of 5% ("Innovation Box Tax") rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities confirming that a portion of its earnings is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment. The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid through December 31, 2017. 40 Until our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, most of our U.S. income will not be subject to a cash tax liability, other than federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our non-U.S. income except in countries where we have operating loss carryforwards. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income more than the U.S. business over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international businesses generate an increasing share of our pre-tax income. We will be subject to increased income taxes in the event that our cash balances held outside the United States are remitted to the United States. As of September 30, 2014 , we held approximately $6.6 billion of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments outside of the United States. We currently intend to use our cash held outside the United States to reinvest in our non-U.S. operations. If our cash balances outside the United States continue to grow and our ability to reinvest those balances outside the United States diminishes, it will become increasingly likely that we will be subject to additional income tax expense in the United States with respect to our unremitted non-U.S. earnings. We would not make additional income tax payments unless we were to actually repatriate our international cash to the United States. We would pay only U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and certain U.S. state income taxes as long as we have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset our U.S. taxable income. This could result in us being subject to a cash income tax liability on the earnings of our U.S. businesses sooner than would otherwise have been the case. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests $ $ 135 (100.0 )% We purchased the remaining outstanding shares underlying the redeemable noncontrolling interests in April 2013. 41 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2014 , we had $8.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments. Approximately $6.6 billion is held by our international subsidiaries and is denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars, Euros and, to a lesser extent, British Pounds Sterling and other currencies. We currently intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of the United States. If we repatriate cash to the United States, we would utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and beyond that amount incur additional tax payments in the United States. Cash equivalents, short-term investments, and long-term investments are comprised of U.S. and foreign government securities, U.S. and foreign corporate bonds, high grade commercial paper, U.S. government agency securities, foreign equity securities and bank deposits. In October 2011, we entered into a $1.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.00% to 1.50%; or (ii) the greatest of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association's prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50%. Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.10% to 0.25%. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $100.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50.0 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of September 30, 2014 , there were no borrowings under the facility, and approximately $4 million of letters of credit were issued under the facility. On July 24, 2014, we acquired OpenTable, Inc., a leading provider of online restaurant reservations, in a cash transaction for a purchase price of approximately $2.5 billion (approximately $2.4 billion net of cash acquired) or $103.00 per share of OpenTable common stock. We funded the acquisition from cash on hand in the United States and $995 million borrowed under our revolving credit facility, which was repaid during the third quarter of 2014. In August 2014, we issued in a private placement $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due 2021, with an interest rate of 0.9% . Interest on the notes is payable on March 15 and September 15 of each year. We used approximately $147.3 million of the net proceeds to concurrently repurchase outstanding common stock. We intend to use the remaining net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include repurchases of our common stock from time to time, repaying outstanding debt and corporate acquisitions. See Note 8 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these notes. In August 2014, the Company used its non-U.S. cash to invest in a five-year senior convertible note issued by Ctrip.com International Ltd. ("Ctrip"). Additionally, during the three months ended September 30, 2014 , the Company invested $150.9 million of its non-U.S. cash in Ctrip American Depositary Shares. See Note 4 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on these investments. In September 2014, we issued 1.0 billion Euro aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2024, with an interest rate of 2.375% . Interest on the notes is payable annually on September 23, beginning September 23, 2015. We intend to use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include repurchases of our common stock from time to time, repaying outstanding debt and corporate acquisitions. See Note 8 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these notes. As of September 30, 2014 , we had a remaining aggregate amount of $507.2 million authorized by our Board of Directors to purchase our common stock. We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital, and other factors. Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from our customers and then we pay most of our travel service providers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant swings in deferred merchant bookings and travel service provider payables seasonally depending on the absolute level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. For the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , we paid $121.9 million to satisfy the aggregate principal amount due and issued 299,657 shares of our common stock in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount for 42 debt converted prior to maturity. As of October 27, 2014 , we received early conversion notices for the 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 2015 that will be settled in the fourth quarter of 2014 for an aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.0 million . Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , was $2.2 billion , resulting from net income of $2.0 billion and a favorable impact of $368.1 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $178.9 million . For the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , accounts receivable increased $353.4 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $209.6 million . The increases in these working capital balances was primarily related to seasonality and increases in business volumes. Our bookings and revenues are generally higher in the third quarter of the year than in the fourth quarter of the year which typically results in higher accounts receivable, deferred merchant bookings, accounts payable and accrued expenses at September 30 compared to December 31. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , was $1.7 billion , resulting from net income of $1.5 billion and a favorable impact of $242.4 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $10.1 million . For the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , accounts receivable increased $284.0 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $280.9 million . The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to seasonality and increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes and deferred income taxes. Net cash used in investing activities was $0.3 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 were affected by $2.5 billion used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and net payments of $80.3 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts, mostly offset by net sales of investments of $2.4 billion . Net cash used in investing activities was $2.2 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 were affected by net purchases of investments of $1.8 billion , $331.6 million used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired and net payments of $52.8 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts. Cash invested in purchase of property and equipment was $90.7 million and $57.0 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.9 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 primarily consisted of total proceeds of $2.3 billion from the issuance of Convertible Senior Notes and Euro denominated Senior Notes, the exercise of employee stock options of $12.4 million and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $14.1 million , partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $245.5 million and payments of $121.9 million related to the conversion of Senior Notes. Net cash provided by financing activities was $2.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 was primarily related to proceeds from the issuance of Convertible Senior Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion less $20.0 million of initial debt discount, proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $86.3 million and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $13.3 million , which was almost entirely offset by, among other things, treasury stock purchases of $883.0 million , $192.5 million spent to purchase the remaining shares underlying noncontrolling interests, and payments of $1.2 million for stock issuance costs. Contingencies A number of U.S. jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against online travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). In addition, a number of U.S. states, counties and municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes. To date, the majority of taxing jurisdictions in which we facilitate the making of travel reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on our travel services. With respect to jurisdictions that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect taxes from us only on a prospective basis. See Note 13 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and proceedings, and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations " in this Quarterly Report. As a result of this litigation and other attempts by U.S. jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual for the potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes in the amount of approximately $51 million at 43 September 30, 2014 and $55 million at December 31, 2013 (which includes, among other things, amounts related to the litigation in the State of Hawaii, San Antonio, District of Columbia and Chicago). The accrual is based on our estimate of the probable cost of resolving these issues. Our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded. An estimate for a reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount accrued cannot be reasonably made. We believe that even if we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash, it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2014 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Sections of this Form 10-Q including, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above and the Risk Factors contained in Part II Item 1A hereof, contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Part II Item 1A, Risk Factors. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 , and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.