Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements " in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, " this discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in " Risk Factors " and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a leading online travel company that connects consumers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world. We offer consumers accommodation reservations (including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels, apartments, vacation rentals (including "aparthotels," which are apartments with a front desk and cleaning service) and other properties) through our Booking.com, priceline.com and agoda.com brands. Our priceline.com brand also offers consumers reservations for rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages and cruises. We offer rental car reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com. We also allow consumers to easily compare airline ticket, hotel reservation and rental car reservation information from hundreds of travel websites at once through KAYAK's websites and mobile applications (or "apps"). We recently acquired OpenTable, a leading provider of online restaurant reservations. We believe that the online restaurant reservation business is complementary to our online travel businesses, and that both OpenTable and our travel businesses will benefit from adding OpenTable to The Priceline Group. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands, including Booking.com, priceline.com, agoda.com, KAYAK, rentalcars.com and, after July 24, 2014, OpenTable, collectively as "The Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include Booking.com, agoda.com, KAYAK, rentalcars.com and OpenTable, which are independently managed and operated brands. Our principal goal is to serve consumers with worldwide leadership in online travel services. Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com and the results of the international based websites of KAYAK (in each case regardless of where the consumer is resident, from where the consumer makes a reservation or where the service is provided), and, after July 24, 2014, the international results of OpenTable. During the year ended December 31, 2013 , our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 85% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately 94% of our consolidated operating income. A significant majority of our gross profit is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2014, we derived substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car, and vacation package reservation services; Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to OTAs and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; and Global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees related to our Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservation services, and price-disclosed airline ticket and rental car reservation services. Beginning on July 24, 2014, our revenues include revenues recognized by OpenTable from its restaurant customers, which consist of monthly subscription fees, a fee for each restaurant guest seated through OpenTable's online reservation service and other revenue. Our priceline.com U.S. brand offers merchant Name Your Own Price opaque travel services, which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue. All of our other services are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between Name Your Own Price travel services and other travel services. Gross profit reflects the commission or net margin earned for our retail, Name Your Own Price and semi-opaque travel services and our advertising services. Consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business because, in 25 contrast to our revenues, it is not affected by the mix between our Name Your Own Price travel services and our other travel services. Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices, the high growth of travel overall in emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America, and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build accommodation supply, content and distribution and to improve the customer experience on our websites and mobile apps. We experienced strong year-over-year growth in recent years, though that growth has generally decelerated. For example, for the three months ended June 30, 2014 , our accommodation room night reservation growth was 29% , a deceleration from 38% in the same period in 2013 and 39% in the same period in 2012 . Given the size of our hotel reservation business, we expect that our year-over-year growth rates will continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate. Many governments around the world, including the U.S. government and certain European governments, are operating at large financial deficits, resulting in high levels of sovereign debt in such countries. Failure to reach political consensus regarding workable solutions to these issues has resulted in a high level of uncertainty regarding the future economic outlook. This uncertainty, as well as concern over governmental austerity measures including higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates and weaker trends in hotel average daily rates ("ADRs") across many regions of the world, particularly in those European countries that appear to be most affected by economic uncertainties. We believe that these business trends are likely impacted by weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns. Disruptions in the economies of such countries could cause, contribute to or be indicative of deteriorating macro-economic conditions. In addition, during periods of elevated uncertainty, the value of the U.S. Dollar compared to other currencies, including the Euro, has often increased, which adversely affects our gross bookings, gross profit, operating income and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars. The uncertainty of macro-economic factors and their impact on consumer behavior across regions, which may differ, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. We compete with both online and traditional travel reservation services. The market for the travel reservation services we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple and Facebook, have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do, and they may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to enable them to compete more effectively with us. For example, Google has entered various aspects of the online travel market through its acquisition of ITA Software, Inc., a major flight information software company, in 2011, its hotel meta-search service known as "Hotel Finder" (discussed below) and its recent license of hotel-booking software from Room 77. We currently, or potentially may, compete with a variety of companies, including: online travel reservation services such as those owned by Expedia, Orbitz, Travelocity, Ctrip, Rakuten, eDreams ODIGEO, Jalan and Wotif (which has agreed to be acquired by Expedia); search, social networking and group buying companies, such as Google, Facebook and Groupon; traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators, such as Carlson Wagonlit, American Express, Thomas Cook and Tui Travel, as well as thousands of individual travel agencies around the world; travel service providers such as accommodation providers, rental car companies and airlines; and online travel search and price comparison services (generally referred to as "meta-search" services), such as trivago (in which Expedia has acquired a majority ownership interest), TripAdvisor, Qunar and HotelsCombined. TripAdvisor, a leading travel research and review website, Google, the world's largest search engine, and other large, established companies with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic have launched meta-search services and may create additional inroads into online travel, both in the United States and internationally. Meta-search services leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the consumer's specific itinerary across travel service provider (e.g., hotels, rental car companies or airlines), OTA and other travel websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers. Meta-search services intend to appeal to consumers by showing broader travel search results than may be available through OTAs or other travel websites, which could lead to travel 26 service providers or others gaining a larger share of search traffic. TripAdvisor has begun supporting its meta-search service with offline advertising, and trivago, a leading meta-search service in Europe, recently expanded its offline advertising campaign into the United States. Google offers "Hotel Finder", a meta-search service that Google has at times placed at or near the top of its hotel-related search results. Through our KAYAK meta-search service, we compete directly with other meta-search services. KAYAK depends on access to information related to travel service pricing, schedules, availability and other related information from OTAs and travel service providers. As consumers attempt to be more efficient in their shopping behavior, they may favor travel services offered by meta-search websites or search companies over OTAs, which could reduce traffic to our travel reservation websites, increase consumer awareness of our competitors' brands and websites and increase our advertising and other customer acquisition costs. To the extent any such consumer behavior leads to growth in our KAYAK meta-search business, such growth may not result in sufficient increases in profits from our KAYAK meta-search business to offset any related decrease in profits experienced by our OTA brands. Further, meta-search services may evolve into more traditional OTAs by offering consumers the ability to make travel reservations directly through their websites. For example, TripAdvisor facilitates hotel reservations on its transactional websites Tingo and Jetsetter and now allows consumers to make a reservation while staying on TripAdvisor through its "Instant Booking" offering. Meta-search providers may also offer direct booking services with travel service providers, which may lead to more consumers booking directly with a travel service provider rather than an OTA. To the extent consumers book travel services through a meta-search website or directly with a travel service provider after visiting a meta-search website or meta-search utility on a traditional search engine without using an OTA like us, we may need to increase our advertising or other customer acquisition costs to maintain or grow our reservation bookings. If meta-search services limit our participation within their search results, there could be an adverse effect on our business, gross bookings and results of operations. As a result of our acquisition of OpenTable, we now compete or may in the future compete with other restaurant reservation providers, such as Yelp's SeatMe service and LaFourchette, a European restaurant reservation business recently acquired by TripAdvisor. Travel service providers, including multi-national hotel chains, rental car companies and airlines with which we conduct business, compete with us in online channels to drive consumers to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us. Travel service providers who sell on their own websites may charge lower prices and, in some instances, offer advantages such as loyalty points or special discounts to members of closed user groups (such as loyalty program participants or customers with registered accounts). We may need to offer similar advantages to maintain or grow our reservation bookings, which could adversely impact our profitability. Widespread adoption of mobile devices, such as the iPhone, Android-enabled smart phones and tablets such as the iPad, coupled with the improved web browsing functionality and development of thousands of useful "apps" available on these devices, is driving substantial traffic and commerce activity to mobile platforms. We have experienced a significant shift of business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Our major competitors and certain new market entrants are offering mobile applications for travel products and other functionality, including proprietary last-minute discounts for accommodation reservations. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. The gross profit earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. Further, given the device sizes and technical limitations of tablets and smart phones, mobile consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps from multiple travel service providers and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their mobile travel activity. As a result, the consumer experience with mobile apps as well as brand recognition and loyalty are likely to become increasingly important. We have made significant progress creating mobile offerings, which have received strong reviews and solid download trends, and which are driving a material and increasing share of our business. We believe that mobile bookings present an opportunity for growth and are necessary to maintain and grow our business as consumers increasingly turn to mobile devices instead of a personal computer and to mobile applications in addition to a web browser. If we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly and differentiated mobile offerings and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our mobile apps are not downloaded and used by consumers, we could lose market share to existing competitors or new entrants and our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. Apple, Inc., one of the most innovative and successful companies in the world and producer of, among other things, the iPhone and iPad, obtained a patent for "iTravel," a mobile app that would allow a traveler to check in for a travel reservation. In addition, Apple's iPhone operating system includes "Passbook," a virtual wallet app that holds tickets, boarding passes, coupons and gift cards, and along with iTravel, may be indicative of Apple's intent to enter the travel reservations 27 business in some capacity. Apple has substantial market share in the smart phone category and controls integration of offerings, including travel services, into its mobile operating system. Apple also has more experience producing and developing mobile apps and has access to greater resources than we have. Apple may use or expand iTravel, Passbook, Siri (Apple's voice recognition "concierge" service) or another mobile app as a means of entering the travel reservations marketplace. Similarly, Google's Android operating system is the leading smart phone operating system in the world. As a result, Google could leverage its Android operating system to give its travel services a competitive advantage, either technically or with prominence on its Google Play app store or within its mobile search results. To the extent Apple or Google use their mobile operating systems or app distribution channels to favor their own travel service offerings, our business could be harmed. There has been a proliferation of new channels through which accommodation providers can offer reservations. For example, some accommodations offer reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social, which sell coupons to customers at a substantial discount. Companies such as HotelTonight, BackBid, GuestMob, Tingo and Hipmunk have developed new and differentiated offerings that endeavor to provide savings on accommodation reservations to consumers and that compete directly with us. Further, meta-search services may lower the cost for new companies to enter the market by providing a distribution channel without the cost of promoting the new entrant's brand to drive consumers directly to its website. If any of these new services are successful, we may experience less demand for our services and are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. In August 2013, Expedia and Travelocity announced that they had entered into an exclusive, long-term strategic marketing agreement, whereby Expedia will power the technology platforms for Travelocity's existing websites in the United States and Canada, while providing Travelocity access to Expedia's supply and customer services. To the extent this arrangement enhances Expedia's and/or Travelocity's ability to compete with us in the affected markets, our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected. We use third party websites, including online search engines (primarily Google) and meta-search and travel research services, and affiliate marketing as primary means of generating traffic to our websites. Our online advertising expense has increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue. Various factors can impact whether our online advertising will grow faster or slower than gross profit. Our online advertising returns on investment ("ROIs") have been down year-over-year for the last several quarterly periods, and as a result, our online advertising expense has grown more quickly than our gross profit. In the second quarter of 2014 and thus far in the third quarter, we have experienced more significant year-over-year declines in our online marketing ROIs. Furthermore, our international brands are generally growing faster than our U.S. brands, and typically spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising, also resulting in our online advertising growing more quickly than our gross profit. These negative factors have recently been slightly offset by an increasing share of traffic coming directly to us, a trend that may or may not continue. We also intend to continue to invest in offline advertising, in particular for our Booking.com, KAYAK and priceline.com brands, and expect to increase our overall offline advertising spend in 2014. For example, building on its first offline advertising campaign, which it launched in the United States in 2013, Booking.com recently began offline advertising campaigns in Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and Germany and may expand its offline advertising into other markets during 2014. The inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013 had a significant favorable impact on online advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2014 because KAYAK spends a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other brands, and our consolidated results exclude intercompany advertising by our brands on KAYAK since the acquisition date. This favorable impact benefited year-over-year comparisons through the anniversary of the acquisition on May 21, 2014. Advertising efficiency is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates and our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and then having customers return directly to our websites or mobile apps for future bookings. If Google changes how it presents travel search results or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results in a manner that is competitively disadvantageous to us, whether to support its own travel related services or otherwise, our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites could be harmed. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We rely on online advertising channels to enhance our brand awareness and to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in Internet search engine algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " Further, we have observed increased offline advertising by OTAs, meta-search services and travel service providers, particularly in North America and Europe, which may make such advertising more expensive and less effective. The competition authorities of many governments have begun investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. For example, Booking.com and others recently agreed to certain commitments to resolve an investigation by the U.K. Office of Fair Trading, which 28 commitments provide that OTAs will have the flexibility to discount a hotel's retail price, notwithstanding "rate parity" requirements in contracts with hotels (requirements that generally require a hotel to offer the same room rates to all OTAs), but only to members of closed user groups. Other national competition authorities, including those in France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Hungary, Sweden and Switzerland, have opened investigations that focus on Booking.com's rate parity clause in its contracts with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions. All of these investigations are at a preliminary stage. We are currently unable to predict the outcome of these investigations or how our business may be affected. Possible outcomes include requiring Booking.com to remove its rate parity clause from its contracts with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions. We note that the German competition authority has required Hotel Reservation Service, a leading OTA in Germany, to remove its rate parity clause from its contracts with hotels, though this decision is currently subject to appeal. To the extent that regulatory authorities require changes to our business practices or to those currently common to the industry, our business, competitive position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Negative publicity regarding any such investigations could adversely affect our brand and therefore our market share and results of operations. In addition, we have observed an increase in promotional pricing to closed user groups, including through mobile apps. If we are not as effective as our competition in offering discounted prices to closed user groups, our ability to grow and compete could be harmed. If we need to fund such discounts out of our gross profit in order to effectively compete, our profitability could be adversely affected. International Trends . The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet adoption rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the United States. However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. We expect that over the long-term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. Our growth has primarily been generated by our international accommodation reservation service brands, Booking.com and agoda.com. Booking.com, our most significant brand, included over 525,000 properties on its website as of August 8, 2014 , which included over 190,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from both a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. As our international business represents the substantial majority of our financial results, we expect to continue to see our operating results and other financial metrics largely driven by international performance. For example, certain newer markets in which we operate that are in earlier stages of development have lower operating margins compared to more mature markets, which could have a negative impact on our overall margins as these markets increase in size over time. Also, we intend to continue to invest in adding accommodations available for reservation on our websites, including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels and vacation rentals. Vacation rentals generally consist of, among others, properties categorized as single-unit and multi-unit villas, holiday homes, apartments, "aparthotels" (which are apartments with a front desk and cleaning service) and chalets and are generally self-catered (i.e., include a kitchen), directly bookable properties. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms, lower ADRs or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts), and therefore may also negatively impact our margins. For example, because a vacation rental is either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, vacation rental properties represent more limited booking opportunities than non-vacation rental properties, which generally have more units to rent per property. Our non-hotel accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons, weather or other factors. As we increase our non-hotel accommodation business, these different market characteristics could negatively impact our profit margins; and, to the extent these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our websites, our gross bookings growth rate and property growth rate will likely diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of non-hotel accommodations increases, the number of reservations per property will likely decrease. Another impact of the size of our international business is our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. Because we conduct a substantial majority of our business outside the United States and report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international business are translated 29 from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation. For example, a strengthening of the Euro increases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars, while a weakening of the Euro decreases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars. Certain European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt have had difficulty refinancing their debt. Concern around devaluation or abandonment of the Euro common currency, or that sovereign default risk may be more widespread and could include the United States, has led to significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the U.S. Dollar and other currencies. We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results. However, such derivative instruments are short-term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact our gross bookings, revenue or gross profit (see Note 5 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). For example, while revenue from our international operations grew year-over-year on a local currency basis by approximately 36% for the three months ended June 30, 2014 compared to the same period in 2013, as a result of the positive impact of currency exchange rates, revenue from our international operations as reported in U.S. Dollars grew 38% year-over-year for the three months ended June 30, 2014 . Revenue from our international operations grew year-over-year by 36% for the six months ended June 30, 2014 compared to the same period in 2013 on both a local currency basis and as reported in U.S. Dollars. Domestic Trends . Competition in U.S. online travel remains intense and online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantages. In particular, the competition to provide "opaque" hotel reservation services to consumers, an area in which our priceline.com U.S. business has been a leader, has become more intense. For example, Expedia makes opaque hotel reservations available through its Hotwire brand and on its principal website under the name "Expedia Unpublished Rates" and has, we believe, supported this initiative with steeper discounts through lower margins. As with our opaque Name Your Own Price and Express Deals hotel reservation services, the name of the hotel is not disclosed until after booking the reservation. We believe these offerings, in particular "Expedia Unpublished Rates," have adversely impacted the market share and year-over-year room night reservations growth rate for our Name Your Own Price opaque hotel reservation service, which began to experience a decline in the third quarter of 2011. In addition, some hotels offer discounted room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social. If Expedia or others are successful in growing their opaque hotel reservation services, and/or "daily deal" websites are successful in garnering a sizable share of discounted hotel bookings, we may have less consumer demand for our opaque hotel reservation services over time, and we would face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. In an effort to compete more effectively against these new offerings, in 2012 we launched Express Deals , a semi-opaque price-disclosed hotel reservation service. While Express Deals has been a significant contributor to the improved performance of our opaque hotel reservation service, the offering may not ultimately be successful at recovering or growing U.S. hotel reservation service market share. As a result of this increased competition, our share of the discount hotel reservation market in the United States could further decrease. While demand for online travel services in the United States continues to experience growth, we believe that the U.S. market share of third-party distributors is impacted in part by a concerted initiative by travel service providers to direct customers to their own websites in an effort to reduce distribution expenses and establish more direct control over their pricing. In addition, high hotel occupancy levels have had an adverse impact on our access to hotel rooms for our opaque hotel reservation services. Further, growth in discounted closed user group retail prices for hotel rooms lessens the price difference for members of the closed user group between a retail hotel reservation and an opaque hotel reservation, which may lead to fewer consumers using our opaque hotel reservation services. U.S. airlines have, at times, reduced capacity and increased fares. Decreases in capacity reduce the amount of airline tickets available, while increases in average airfares can adversely impact leisure travel demand. Generally, reduced airline capacity and demand negatively impact our priceline.com air ticket reservation service, which in turn can have negative repercussions on our priceline.com hotel and rental car services. Further, consolidation in the airline industry has negatively affected our access to airline tickets for our opaque services. We expect continued variability in the breadth and depth of discounted airline tickets and rental car rates made available to us in the future, depending on market conditions from time to time. Seasonality . A meaningful amount of gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which reservations are booked. However, we generally do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs. As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation checkouts for the year for our European and North American businesses. 30 In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2013 our second quarter year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were adversely affected by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, as it did in 2012. Conversely, our second quarter 2014 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were favorably impacted by Easter falling in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2013. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short-term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable advertising expense. In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters. We experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters. Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results. Other Factors . We believe that our success will depend in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, higher oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, volcanic eruptions (such as the April 2010 eruption of a volcano in Iceland), travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities or travel related accidents, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and impair our ability to effectively implement all or some of the initiatives described above. For example, in late 2012 Hurricane Sandy disrupted travel in the northeastern United States. In early 2011, Japan was struck by a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency. In October 2011, severe flooding in Thailand, a key market for our agoda.com business and the Asian business of Booking.com, negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market. In addition, Thailand has recently experienced disruptive civil unrest, which has negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market. In early 2010, Thailand also experienced civil unrest, which caused the temporary relocation of agoda.com's Thailand-based operations. Future natural disasters or civil or political unrest could further disrupt our business and operations. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to grow gross profit and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain gross profit growth and profitability. On May 21, 2013, we acquired KAYAK Software Corporation, a leading travel meta-search service, for $2.1 billion ($1.9 billion net of cash acquired). A substantial portion of the total consideration related to identifiable acquired intangibles and goodwill (see Note 6 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Since our annual goodwill impairment test in September 2013, there have been no events or changes in circumstances to indicate a potential impairment to the goodwill associated with this acquisition. If KAYAK is unsuccessful in profitably growing its global online travel brand or it experiences a significant reduction in advertising revenues due to factors such as a loss of continued access to travel services information provided by other OTAs or travel service providers or a reduction in advertising on its websites or mobile apps, we may incur an impairment charge related to this goodwill. 31 Results of Operations Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2014 compared to the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2013 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking activity generated by our travel services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units purchased by our customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers and is widely used in the travel business. International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com businesses and domestic gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our priceline.com business, in each case without regard to the travel destination or the location of the customer purchasing the travel. We follow a similar approach for reporting international and domestic revenue and gross profit. Gross bookings resulting from accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our international and U.S. operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 and 2013 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change International $ 11,682 $ 8,579 36.2 % $ 22,326 $ 16,362 36.4 % Domestic 1,856 1,538 20.6 % 3,492 2,908 20.1 % Total $ 13,538 $ 10,118 33.8 % $ 25,818 $ 19,270 34.0 % Gross bookings increased by 33.8% and 34.0% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 compared to the same periods in 2013 (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 32% and 34% for the three and six months, respectively), principally due to growth of 29.2% and 30.5% in accommodation room night reservations, 3% growth on a local currency basis in ADRs, 22.3% and 22.4% growth in airline ticket reservations and growth of 14.4% and 18.9% in rental car day reservations for the three and six months, respectively. International gross bookings grew by 36.2% and 36.4% (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 35% and 36% ) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 . International gross bookings growth was primarily attributable to growth in accommodation room night reservations for our Booking.com and agoda.com businesses, as well as growth in rental car day reservations for our rentalcars.com business. Domestic gross bookings increased by 20.6% and 20.1% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to increases in priceline.com's retail airline ticket, retail hotel, Express Deals and rental car services, partially offset by declines in our Name Your Own Price hotel and air services. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 and 2013 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Agency $ 11,581 $ 8,425 37.4 % $ 22,096 $ 16,073 37.5 % Merchant 1,957 1,692 15.7 % 3,721 3,197 16.4 % Total $ 13,538 $ 10,118 33.8 % $ 25,818 $ 19,270 34.0 % Agency gross bookings increased 37.4% and 37.5% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to growth in Booking.com accommodation room night reservations, as well as growth in priceline.com's retail airline ticket, rental car and hotel services. Merchant gross bookings increased 15.7% and 16.4% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily due 32 to increases in agoda.com, rentalcars.com and priceline.com Express Deals hotel and retail hotel services, as well as higher Name Your Own Price rental car ADRs, partially offset by declines in our Name Your Own Price hotel and air services. Units sold for accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Room Nights 89.6 69.4 29.2 % 173.0 132.6 30.5 % Rental Car Days 14.3 12.5 14.4 % 26.7 22.4 18.9 % Airline Tickets 2.1 1.7 22.3 % 4.2 3.4 22.4 % Accommodation room night reservations increased by 29.2% and 30.5% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , principally due to an increase in Booking.com, agoda.com and priceline.com accommodation room night reservations. Booking.com, our most significant brand, included over 525,000 properties on its website as of August 8, 2014 (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate and our core European market. Rental car day reservations increased by 14.4% and 18.9% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , due to an increase in retail rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and priceline.com, partially offset by a decline in our Name Your Own Price rental car reservation service. Airline ticket reservations increased by 22.3% and 22.4% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , due to an increase in price-disclosed airline ticket reservations for priceline.com driven primarily by increased paid advertising placements on KAYAK. Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, GDS reservation booking fees related to certain travel services, travel insurance fees and customer processing fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Substantially all of the revenue for Booking.com is agency revenue comprised of travel commissions. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer's credit card for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the price of Name Your Own Price hotel room night, rental car and airline ticket reservations and vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged to us by travel service providers in connection with (a) the accommodation reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel services at agoda.com and priceline.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at rentalcars.com and merchant Express Deals services at priceline.com, which allow customers to see the price of the reservation prior to purchase but not the identity of the travel service provider; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservations and merchant price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from KAYAK for sending referrals to OTAs and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile applications. 33 Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Agency Revenues $ 1,474,396 $ 1,064,640 38.5 % $ 2,515,540 $ 1,834,568 37.1 % Merchant Revenues 567,253 580,224 (2.2 )% 1,094,251 1,108,788 (1.3 )% Advertising and Other Revenues 81,926 35,374 131.6 % 155,586 38,894 300.0 % Total Revenues $ 2,123,575 $ 1,680,238 26.4 % $ 3,765,377 $ 2,982,250 26.3 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 increased 38.5% and 37.1% , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com. Our priceline.com agency revenues benefited from growth in our retail airline ticket, rental car and hotel businesses. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 decreased 2.2% and 1.3% , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to decreases in revenues from our Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket services, mostly offset by increases in our agoda.com business, rentalcars.com business and priceline.com's Express Deals hotel service, retail hotel service and vacation package service for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , compared to the same periods in 2013 . Merchant revenue growth over the prior year period was substantially lower than merchant gross bookings growth because our merchant revenues are disproportionately affected by our Name Your Own Price service. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and represented a smaller percentage, year-over-year, of total revenues compared to our faster-growing agoda.com, rentalcars.com and priceline.com Express Deals services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues during the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 consisted primarily of advertising revenues. Advertising revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 includes $76.4 million and $145.5 million , respectively, of KAYAK revenue as a result of the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013, and is net of intercompany revenues earned by KAYAK from other Priceline Group brands. Cost of Revenues Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Cost of Revenues $ 240,579 $ 296,383 (18.8 )% $ 475,910 $ 588,730 (19.2 )% For the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost paid to travel service providers for our Name Your Own Price services, net of applicable taxes and charges; (2) fees paid to third parties by KAYAK and priceline.com to return travel itinerary information in response to search queries; and (3) the cost related to accruals for travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). Cost of revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 decreased by 18.8% and 19.2% , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to a decrease in our Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket services, partially offset by increases in our priceline.com vacation package service and the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Cost of revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2013 includes an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia. Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Agency revenues principally consist of travel commissions on accommodation reservations. 34 Gross Profit Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Gross Profit $ 1,882,996 $ 1,383,855 36.1 % $ 3,289,467 $ 2,393,520 37.4 % Gross Margin 88.7 % 82.4 % 87.4 % 80.3 % Total gross profit for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 increased by 36.1% and 37.4% , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily as a result of the increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , compared to the same periods in 2013 , because our revenues are disproportionately affected by our Name Your Own Price service. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 these revenues represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the same periods in 2013 . Our retail and semi-opaque services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs, have been growing faster than our Name Your Own Price services. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $1.65 billion and $2.86 billion of our gross profit for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , respectively, which compares to $1.20 billion and $2.10 billion, respectively, for the same periods in 2013. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 36% for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , compared to the same periods in 2013 . Gross profit attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by 25% and 44% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , compared to the same periods in 2013 . Gross profit for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 was positively impacted by the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2013 was negatively impacted by an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia. Operating Expenses Advertising Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Online Advertising $ 639,655 $ 463,135 38.1 % $ 1,160,503 $ 866,288 34.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 34.0 % 33.5 % 35.3 % 36.2 % Offline Advertising $ 58,026 $ 32,130 80.6 % $ 111,500 $ 59,859 86.3 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.1 % 2.3 % 3.4 % 2.5 % Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; (4) banner, pop-up and other Internet advertisements; and (5) e-mail campaigns. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , online advertising expenses increased over the same periods in 2013 , primarily to generate increased gross bookings. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2014 benefited from the inclusion of KAYAK. KAYAK spends a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other brands, and our consolidated results exclude intercompany advertising by our brands on KAYAK since the acquisition date. This favorable impact, which has benefited year-over-year comparisons through the anniversary of the acquisition on May 21, 2014, was more than offset for the three months ended June 30, 2014 and partially offset for the six months ended June 30, 2014 by (1) a year-over-year decline in advertising ROIs and (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group as our international brands grew faster than our U.S. brands and typically spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. In addition, gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2013 was negatively impacted by an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia. Offline advertising expenses are related to our Booking.com, KAYAK and priceline.com businesses and primarily consist of television advertising. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , offline advertising increased by 80.6% and 86.3% , respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013 , due to the impact of the inclusion of KAYAK in our consolidated 35 results since its acquisition on May 21, 2013, as well as the launch of offline advertising campaigns by Booking.com in the United States in 2013 and in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom in 2014. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Sales and Marketing $ 75,053 $ 59,855 25.4 % $ 139,364 $ 112,118 24.3 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.0 % 4.3 % 4.2 % 4.7 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to increased gross booking volumes as well as expenses related to content translations and public relations. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of gross profit are typically higher for our merchant business, which incurs credit card processing fees. Our merchant business grew more slowly than our agency business, and as a result, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross profit for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , declined compared to the same periods in 2013 . Personnel Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Personnel $ 221,852 $ 165,997 33.6 % $ 416,383 $ 300,215 38.7 % % of Total Gross Profit 11.8 % 12.0 % 12.7 % 12.5 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes and employee health benefits. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , personnel expenses increased over the same periods in 2013 , due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses and the impact of the inclusion of KAYAK in our consolidated results since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $35.2 million and $74.0 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to $34.7 million and $56.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2013 , respectively. Stock-based compensation expense included $2.7 million and $6.8 million related to unvested assumed employee stock options and payroll taxes of $0.2 million and $0.7 million for exercises of assumed stock options during the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to stock based compensation expense of $11.0 million related to unvested assumed employee stock options and $2.7 million for payroll taxes related to exercises of assumed stock options during the three months ended June 30, 2013 . 36 General and Administrative Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change General and Administrative $ 91,067 $ 64,921 40.3 % $ 164,048 $ 115,082 42.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.8 % 4.7 % 5.0 % 4.8 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) personnel related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 over the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to higher occupancy and office expenses related to the expansion of our international businesses, higher travel, training and recruiting expenses related to increased headcount in all our businesses and the impact of the inclusion of KAYAK in our consolidated results since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. General and administrative expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 included approximately $5.6 million of professional fees related to consummated acquisitions. General and administrative expenses for three and six months ended June 30, 2013 included approximately $6.4 million and $8.5 million , respectively, of professional fees related to the acquisition of KAYAK. Information Technology Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Information Technology $ 24,042 $ 16,959 41.8 % $ 47,266 $ 30,181 56.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.3 % 1.2 % 1.4 % 1.3 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) system maintenance and software license fees; (2) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; (3) outsourced data center costs; and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , the increase in information technology expenses compared to the same periods in 2013 was due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations and the impact of the inclusion of KAYAK in our consolidated results since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 40,287 $ 26,027 54.8 % $ 78,663 $ 45,107 74.4 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.1 % 1.9 % 2.4 % 1.9 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , depreciation and amortization expense increased from the same periods in 2013 due primarily to increased intangible amortization from the KAYAK acquisition and increased depreciation expense due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com brand. 37 Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Interest Income $ 1,634 $ 1,141 43.2 % $ 2,675 $ 2,015 32.8 % Interest Expense (17,106 ) (19,633 ) (12.9 )% (34,851 ) (36,962 ) (5.7 )% Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (1,777 ) (782 ) 127.2 % (7,746 ) (3,724 ) 108.0 % Total $ (17,249 ) $ (19,274 ) (10.5 )% $ (39,922 ) $ (38,671 ) 3.2 % For the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , interest income on cash and marketable securities increased over the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to an increase in the average invested balance partially offset by lower yields. Interest expense decreased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 as compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to a decrease in the average outstanding debt resulting from early conversions of the 1.25% convertible senior notes due March 2015, partially offset by the May 2013 issuance of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due June 2020. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $4.6 million and $4.3 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to foreign exchange gains of $1.8 million and $2.2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2013 , respectively, and were recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in losses of $3.8 million and $6.0 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , respectively, compared to foreign exchange losses of $2.5 million and $5.8 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2013 , respectively, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the first and second quarters of 2014, the Company delivered cash of $117.8 million to repay the aggregate principal amount and issued 289,430 shares of its common stock in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount associated with 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 2015 that were converted prior to maturity. The conversion of our convertible debt prior to maturity resulted in non-cash losses of $2.7 million and $6.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 and is recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. Income Taxes Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Income Tax Expense $ 139,314 $ 98,117 42.0 % $ 224,149 $ 144,267 55.4 % Our effective tax rates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 were 19.5% and 19.8% , respectively, compared to 18.3% and 17.5% for the same periods in 2013 . Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%, due to lower tax rates outside the United States, partially offset by state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. Our effective tax rate was higher for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , compared to the same periods in 2013 , primarily due to the acquisition of KAYAK on May 21, 2013, which is principally taxed at the higher U.S. tax rates. According to Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying "innovative" activities is taxed at a rate of 5% ("Innovation Box Tax") rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities in February 2011 confirming that a portion of its earnings is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment. The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid through December 31, 2017. 38 Until our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, most of our U.S. income will not be subject to a cash tax liability, other than federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our non-U.S. income except in countries where we have operating loss carryforwards. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income more than the U.S. business over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international businesses generate an increasing share of our pre-tax income. We will be subject to increased income taxes in the event that our cash balances held outside the United States are remitted to the United States. As of June 30, 2014 , we held approximately $5.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments outside of the United States. We currently intend to use our cash held outside the United States to reinvest in our non-U.S. operations. If our cash balances outside the United States continue to grow and our ability to reinvest those balances outside the United States diminishes, it will become increasingly likely that we will repatriate some of these cash balances to the United States. In such event, we would likely be subject to additional income tax expense in the United States with respect to our unremitted non-U.S. earnings. We would not make additional income tax payments unless we were to actually repatriate our international cash balances to the United States. We would pay only U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and certain U.S. state income taxes as long as we have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset our U.S. taxable income. Additionally, if we were to repatriate cash held outside the United States to the United States, it would use a portion of our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards which could result in us being subject to a cash income tax liability on the earnings of our U.S. business sooner than would otherwise have been the case. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change 2014 2013 Change Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests $ $ 114 (100.0 )% $ $ 135 (100.0 )% We purchased the remaining outstanding shares underlying the redeemable noncontrolling interests in April 2013. 39 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2014 , we had $7.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Approximately $5.4 billion of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments is held by our international subsidiaries and is denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars, Euros and, to a lesser extent, in British Pounds Sterling and other currencies. We currently intend to permanently reinvest these funds in our international operations. If we repatriate cash to the United States, we would utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and beyond that amount incur additional tax payments in the United States. Cash equivalents and short-term investments are primarily comprised of foreign and U.S. government securities and bank deposits. In October 2011, we entered into a $1.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.00% to 1.50%; or (ii) the greatest of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association's prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50%. Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.10% to 0.25%. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $100.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50.0 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of June 30, 2014 , there were no borrowings under the facility, and approximately $2.4 million of letters of credit were issued under the facility. On July 24, 2014, we acquired OpenTable, Inc., a leading provider of online restaurant reservations, in a cash transaction for a purchase price of approximately $2.5 billion (approximately $2.4 billion net of cash acquired) or $103.00 per share of OpenTable common stock. We funded the acquisition from cash on hand in the United States and $995 million borrowed under our revolving credit facility. Also in connection with this acquisition, we assumed unvested employee stock options and restricted stock units with an estimated fair value at acquisition of approximately $95 million , which will be accounted for as post-combination compensation expense. We intend to explore options for longer term financing in the future. On August 6, 2014 , we used our international cash to invest in a five-year Senior Convertible Note issued by Ctrip.com International Ltd. ("Ctrip"). The Note was issued at par with an aggregate principal amount of $500 million . As of June 30, 2014 , we had a remaining aggregate amount of $654.5 million authorized by our Board of Directors to purchase our common stock. We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital, and other factors. Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from our customers and then we pay most of our travel service providers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant swings in deferred merchant bookings and travel service provider payables seasonally depending on the absolute level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. For the six months ended June 30, 2014 , we paid $117.8 million to satisfy the aggregate principal amount due and issued 289,430 shares of our common stock in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount for debt converted prior to maturity. As of August 4, 2014, the Company had received early conversion notices that were settled in the third quarter of 2014 for an aggregate principal amount of approximately $4 million and issued shares of its common stock to satisfy the conversion value in excess of the principal amount associated with the 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 2015. Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2014 , was $867.0 million , resulting from net income of $907.7 million and a favorable impact of $221.0 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $261.7 million . For the six months ended June 30, 2014 , prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $264.0 million , principally related to a first quarter prepayment of $346.4 million for income taxes for 2014 by Booking.com to earn a prepayment discount. For the six months ended June 30, 2014 , accounts receivable increased $313.0 million , primarily due to increases in business volumes. For the six months ended June 30, 2014 , accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $312.9 million . The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to seasonality and increases in business volumes. Our bookings and revenues are generally higher in the second quarter of the year than in the fourth quarter of the year which typically results 40 in higher accounts receivable, deferred merchant bookings, accounts payable and accrued expenses at June 30 compared to December 31. The growth in deferred merchant bookings was partly offset by an initiative at agoda.com which allows their customers to pay near the time of travel rather than at the time booking. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes, and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2013 , was $776.5 million , resulting from net income of $681.7 million and a favorable impact of $133.9 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $39.1 million . For the six months ended June 30, 2013 , prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $133.1 million , principally related to a first quarter prepayment of $224.0 million for income taxes for 2013 by Booking.com to earn a prepayment discount. For the six months ended June 30, 2013 , accounts receivable increased $243.0 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $328.0 million . The increase in these working capital balances were primarily related to seasonality and increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes, and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by investing activities was $1.5 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2014 . Investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2014 were affected by net sales of investments of $1.8 billion , partially offset by $101.1 million used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, net payments of $69.8 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts and a change in restricted cash of $5.2 million . Net cash used in investing activities was $986.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2013 . Investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2013 were affected by net purchases of investments of $573.9 million , $330.8 million for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, payments of $44.2 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts, and a change in restricted cash of $0.6 million. Cash invested in purchase of property and equipment was $62.0 million and $36.5 million in the six months ended June 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Net cash used in financing activities was $193.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014 . The cash used by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2014 primarily consisted of treasury stock purchases of $97.3 million and payments of $117.8 million related to the conversion of senior notes, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $9.7 million and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $12.2 million . Net cash provided by financing activities was $453.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2013 . The cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2013 was primarily related to proceeds from the issuance of convertible senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion less $20.0 million of initial debt discount, proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $72.8 million . and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $17.8 million , partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $423.3 million , $192.5 million spent to purchase the remaining shares underlying noncontrolling interests, and payments of $1.1 million for stock issuance costs. Contingencies A number of jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against online travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). In addition, a number of U.S. states, counties and municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes. To date, the majority of taxing jurisdictions in which we facilitate the making of travel reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on our travel services. With respect to jurisdictions that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect taxes from us only on a prospective basis. See Note 13 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and proceedings, and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations " in this Quarterly Report. As a result of this litigation and other attempts by jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual for the potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes in the amount of approximately $55 million at both June 30, 2014 and December 31, 2013 (which includes, among other things, amounts related to the litigation in the State of Hawaii, San Antonio, District of Columbia and Chicago). The accrual is based on our estimate of the probable cost of resolving these issues. Our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded. An estimate for a reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount accrued cannot be reasonably made. We believe that even if we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash, it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. 41 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2014 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Sections of this Form 10-Q including, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above and the Risk Factors contained in Part II Item 1A hereof, contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Part II Item 1A, Risk Factors. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 , and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.