Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements " at the end of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Quarterly Report. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, " this discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in " Risk Factors " and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. The information on our websites is not a part of this Quarterly Report and is not incorporated herein by reference. We evaluate our results of operations on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Overview We help people experience the world by providing consumers, travel service providers and restaurants with leading travel and restaurant reservation and related services. Through our online travel companies ("OTCs"), we connect consumers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world. We are the leader in the worldwide online accommodation reservation market based on room nights booked. We offer consumers a broad array of accommodation reservations (including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels, apartments, vacation rentals and other properties) through our Booking.com, priceline.com and agoda.com brands. Our priceline.com brand also offers consumers reservations for rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages and cruises. We offer rental car reservations worldwide through Rentalcars.com. We also allow consumers to easily compare airline ticket, hotel reservation and rental car reservation information from hundreds of travel websites at once through KAYAK. We provide restaurants with reservation management services and consumers with the ability to make restaurant reservations at participating restaurants through OpenTable, a leading provider of online restaurant reservations. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands, including Booking.com, priceline.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, Rentalcars.com, OpenTable and various smaller brands, collectively as "The Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include five other primary, independently operated brands: Booking.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, Rentalcars.com and OpenTable. Our principal goal is to help people experience the world by serving both consumers and our travel service provider and restaurant partners with worldwide leadership in online reservation and related services. Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda.com and Rentalcars.com and the results of the internationally-based websites of KAYAK and OpenTable (in each case regardless of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while using our services or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant). During the year ended December 31, 2015 , our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 86% of our consolidated gross profit. A significant majority of our gross profit is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations. We derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car, airline ticket and vacation package reservation services; Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; Reservation revenues paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation services, subscription fees for restaurant reservation management services provided by OpenTable and other OpenTable revenues; and Damage excess waiver fees, travel insurance fees and global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees, in each case related to certain of our travel services. Our priceline.com brand offers merchant Name Your Own Price opaque travel services, which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue. All of our other services are recorded in revenue on a "net" 28 basis and have no associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between Name Your Own Price travel services and other services. Gross profit reflects the commission or net margin earned for all of our services. Consequently, gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business because, in contrast to our revenues, it is not affected by the different methods of recording revenue and cost of revenue between our Name Your Own Price travel reservation services and our other services. Trends Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices, the high growth of travel overall in emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America, and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build accommodation supply, content and distribution and to improve the consumer experience on our websites and mobile apps. These year-over-year growth rates have generally decelerated in recent years. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2015, our accommodation room night reservation growth was 25%, a deceleration from 28% in 2014, 37% in 2013, and 40% in 2012. Given the size of our accommodation reservation business, we expect that our year-over-year growth rates will continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate. The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet use and e-commerce activity of international consumers have trailed that of consumers in the United States. However, international consumers are increasingly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. We expect that over the long term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. Our growth has primarily been generated by our worldwide accommodation reservation service brand, Booking.com, which is our most significant brand, and has been due, in part, to the availability of a large and growing number of directly bookable properties through Booking.com. Booking.com included about 965,000 properties on its website as of June 30, 2016 , which included over 467,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website), and compares to about 742,000 properties (including over 337,000 vacation rental properties) as of June 30, 2015 . We believe that continuing to expand the number and variety of accommodations available through our services, in particular Booking.com, will help us to continue to grow our accommodation reservation business. As part of our strategy to increase the number and variety of accommodations available on Booking.com, Booking.com is increasingly processing transactions on a merchant basis where it facilitates payments on behalf of customers. This allows Booking.com to process transactions for properties that do not accept credit cards and to increase its ability to offer flexible transaction terms to customers, such as the form and timing of payment. Although we will incur additional credit card processing costs related to these transactions, which are recorded as sales and marketing expenses in our statement of operations and which will negatively impact our operating margins, we believe that adding these types of properties and service offerings will benefit our customers and our gross bookings, room night and earnings growth rates. As our international business represents the substantial majority of our financial results, we expect our operating results and other financial metrics to continue to be largely driven by international performance. For example, certain markets in which we operate that are in earlier stages of development have lower operating margins compared to more mature markets, which could have a negative impact on our overall margins as these markets increase in size over time. Also, we intend to continue to invest in adding accommodations available for reservation on our websites, including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels and vacation rentals. Vacation rentals generally consist of, among others, properties categorized as single-unit and multi-unit villas, apartments, "aparthotels" (which are apartments with a front desk and cleaning service) and chalets and are generally self-catered (i.e., include a kitchen), directly bookable properties. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms, lower average daily rates ("ADRs") or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts), and therefore may also negatively impact our margins. For example, because a vacation rental is typically either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, vacation rental properties represent more limited booking opportunities than non-vacation rental properties, which generally have more units to rent per property. Our vacation rental properties in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons, weather or other factors. As we increase our vacation rental property 29 business, these different market characteristics could negatively impact our profit margins; and, to the extent these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our websites, we expect that our gross bookings growth rate and property growth rate will continue to diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of vacation rental properties increases, we expect that the number of reservations per property will likely continue to decrease. Concerns persist about the outlook for the global economy in general, including uncertainty in the European Union. In addition, many governments around the world, including the U.S. government and certain European governments, are operating at large financial deficits, resulting in high levels of sovereign debt in such countries. Greece, Ireland, Portugal and certain other European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt at times have had difficulty refinancing their debt. Failure to reach political consensus regarding workable solutions to these issues has resulted in a high level of uncertainty regarding the future economic outlook. This uncertainty, as well as concern over governmental austerity measures including higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates and cancellation rates and weaker trends in hotel ADRs across many regions of the world, particularly in those European countries that appear to be most affected by economic uncertainties. We believe that these business trends are likely impacted by weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns. Similarly, while China's economy experienced rapid growth over the past 20 years, growth of the Chinese economy slowed in 2015 and concerns about its future growth have had an adverse impact on financial markets, currency exchange rates and other economies. Disruptions in the economies of such countries could cause, contribute to or be indicative of deteriorating macro-economic conditions, which in turn could negatively affect travel to or from such countries or the travel industry in general and therefore have an adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, we have experienced an increase in cancellation rates, which we believe is due in part to these macro-economic factors and a resulting lack of consumer confidence. Increased cancellation rates negatively affect our advertising efficiency and our results of operations. Greece, in particular, has recently faced and continues to face significant economic challenges, in large part due to its high levels of sovereign debt and difficulties refinancing that debt. This may increase the likelihood that Greece, and in turn other countries, could exit the European Union, which could lead to added economic and political uncertainty and further devaluation or eventual abandonment of the Euro common currency. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which British citizens approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as "Brexit." Following the referendum, global markets and foreign exchange rates experienced increased volatility, including a sharp decline in the value of the British Pound Sterling as compared to the U.S. Dollar. To leave the European Union, the United Kingdom must provide official notice of its decision to leave and negotiate the terms of its exit, which could take two years or more. Upon leaving the European Union, among other things, the United Kingdom could lose access to the single European Union market and travel between the United Kingdom and European Union countries could be restricted. We could face new regulatory costs and challenges if U.K. regulations and policies diverge from those of the European Union. Since the timing and terms of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union are unknown, we are unable to predict the effect Brexit will have on our business and results of operations. The United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union could result in other member countries also determining to leave, which could lead to added economic and political uncertainty and further devaluation or eventual abandonment of the Euro common currency, any of which could have a negative impact on travel and therefore our business and results of operations. These and other macro-economic uncertainties, such as sovereign default risk becoming more widespread, declining oil prices and geopolitical tensions, have led to significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the U.S. Dollar, the British Pound Sterling and other currencies. In March 2015, the European Central Bank, in an effort to stimulate the European economy, launched a quantitative easing program to purchase public debt and, in March 2016, announced an expansion of the program and other stimulus measures. As noted earlier, our international business represents a substantial majority of our financial results. Therefore, because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international businesses are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. Throughout 2015, the U.S. Dollar strengthened significantly year-over-year relative to substantially all currencies in which we transact, most notably the Euro, Brazilian Real, British Pound Sterling, Russian Ruble and Australian Dollar. In the first half of 2016, the U.S. Dollar continued to be stronger year-over-year relative to the British Pound Sterling, Russian Ruble, Brazilian Real and many other major currencies in which we transact. Following the "Brexit" referendum in the United Kingdom in June 2016, the U.S. Dollar strengthened significantly against the British Pound Sterling, and whether or when the British Pound Sterling will recover is unknown. As a result of these currency exchange rate changes, our foreign currency denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses and net income have been negatively impacted as expressed in U.S. Dollars, although to a much lesser extent in the first half of 2016 than in the first half of 2015. 30 For example, gross profit from our international operations grew 17.5% and 20.1% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015, but, without the negative impact of changes in currency exchange rates, grew year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately 19% and 24% . Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins are not significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. The aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated 2022 Notes, 2024 Notes and 2027 Notes, and accrued interest thereon, provide a natural hedge of the net assets of certain of our Euro functional currency subsidiaries. We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results. However, such derivative instruments are short term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact growth rates for our gross bookings, revenues or gross profit (see Note 5 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). Significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, stock markets and oil prices can also impact consumer travel behavior. Consumers traveling from a country whose currency has weakened against other currencies may book lower ADR accommodations, choose to shorten or cancel their international travel plans or choose to travel domestically rather than internationally, any of which could adversely affect our gross bookings, revenues and results of operations, in particular when expressed in U.S. Dollars. For example, the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro in 2015 made it more expensive for Europeans to travel to the United States. Similarly, dramatic depreciation of the Russian Ruble in 2014 and 2015 made it more expensive for Russians to travel to Europe and most other non-Ruble destinations. In addition, although lower oil prices may lead to increased travel activity as consumers have more discretionary funds and airline fares decrease, recent declines in oil prices and stock market volatility may be indicative of broader macro-economic weakness, which in turn could negatively affect the travel industry and our business. The uncertainty of macro-economic factors and their impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. We compete with both online and traditional travel and restaurant reservation and related services. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, a trend we expect to continue, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. We currently, or may potentially in the future, compete with a variety of companies, including: online travel reservation services such as those owned by Expedia (including Travelocity and Orbitz), Ctrip (in which we hold a minority interest), Rakuten, eDreams ODIGEO and Jalan (which is owned by Recruit); online accommodation search and/or reservation services, such as Airbnb and HomeAway (which is owned by Expedia), currently focused on vacation rental properties and other non-hotel accommodations, including individually owned properties; large online companies, including search, social networking and marketplace companies such as Google, Facebook, Alibaba, Amazon and Groupon; traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators, such as Carlson Wagonlit, American Express, Thomas Cook and TUI Travel, as well as thousands of individual travel agencies around the world; travel service providers such as accommodation providers, rental car companies and airlines; online travel search and price comparison services (generally referred to as "meta-search" services), such as TripAdvisor, trivago (in which Expedia holds a majority ownership interest), Qunar (which is controlled by Ctrip) and HotelsCombined; online restaurant reservation services, such as TripAdvisor's LaFourchette, Yelp's SeatMe and Zomato; and companies offering new rental car business models or car- or ride-sharing services that affect demand for rental cars, some of which have developed innovative technologies to improve efficiency of point-to-point transportation and extensively utilize mobile platforms, such as Uber, Lyft and Zipcar. 31 For more detail regarding the competitive trends and risks we face, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. " and " Consumer adoption and use of mobile devices creates new challenges and may enable device companies such as Apple to compete directly with us. " During 2015, Expedia acquired Travelocity, Orbitz and HomeAway. To the extent these acquisitions enhance Expedia's ability to compete with us, in particular in the United States, which is Expedia's, Travelocity's, Orbitz's and HomeAway's largest market, our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected. Widespread adoption of mobile devices, such as the iPhone, Android-enabled smart phones and tablets such as the iPad, coupled with the web browsing functionality and development of thousands of useful "apps" available on these devices, is driving substantial online traffic and commerce to mobile platforms. We have experienced a significant shift of business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Our major competitors and certain new market entrants are offering mobile apps for travel products and other mobile functionality, including proprietary last-minute discounts for accommodation reservations. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. The gross profit earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. Further, given the device sizes and technical limitations of tablets and smart phones, mobile consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps from multiple companies providing a similar service and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their mobile travel and restaurant research and reservation activity. As a result, the consumer experience with mobile apps as well as brand recognition and loyalty are likely to become increasingly important. Our mobile offerings have received generally strong reviews and are driving a material and increasing share of our business. We believe that mobile bookings present an opportunity for growth and are necessary to maintain and grow our business as consumers increasingly turn to mobile devices instead of a personal computer. If we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly and differentiated mobile offerings and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our mobile offerings are not used by consumers, we could lose market share to existing competitors or new entrants and our business, future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we have observed an increase in promotional pricing to closed user groups (such as loyalty program participants or consumers with registered accounts), including through mobile apps. For example, Marriott International, Hilton and Hyatt Hotels each recently announced additional initiatives to encourage consumers to book accommodations directly through their websites, with increased discounting and incentives. If we are not as effective as our competitors in offering discounted prices to closed user groups or if we are unable to entice members of our competitors' closed user groups to use our services, our ability to grow and compete could be harmed. If we need to fund discounts out of our gross profit, our profitability could be adversely affected. Further, growth in discounted closed user group retail prices for hotel rooms lessens the price difference for members of closed user groups between a retail hotel reservation and an opaque hotel reservation, which we believe has led to fewer consumers using our opaque hotel reservation services. In addition, hotels typically make available only a limited number of hotel rooms for opaque services like those of our priceline.com business, especially during periods of high occupancy. Recent high hotel occupancy levels in the United States, which have had an adverse impact on our access to hotel rooms for our opaque hotel reservation services, and, we believe, the increased use by consumers of discounted closed user group retail prices for hotel rooms have negatively affected our opaque hotel reservation gross profit. We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotional campaigns. Our performance and brand advertising expenses have both increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue. For the six months ended June 30, 2016 , our total performance advertising expense was approximately $1.7 billion , primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services and affiliate marketing to generate traffic to our websites. We also invested approximately $182 million in brand advertising during that period, primarily related to costs associated with producing and airing television advertising, online video advertising (for example, on YouTube and Facebook) and online display advertising. We have observed increased brand advertising by OTCs, meta-search services and travel service providers, particularly in North America, South America and Europe, which may make our brand advertising efforts more expensive and less effective. Performance advertising efficiency, expressed as performance advertising expense as a percentage of gross profit, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and the extent to which consumers come directly to our websites or mobile apps for bookings. For example, competition for desired rankings in search results and/or a decline in ad clicks by consumers could increase our costs-per-click and reduce our performance advertising efficiency. We have observed a long-term trend of decreasing performance advertising returns on investment ("ROIs"), a trend we expect to continue. If Google changes how it presents travel search results or the manner in 32 which it conducts the auction for placement among search results in a manner that is competitively disadvantageous to us, whether to support its own travel-related services or otherwise, our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites could be harmed. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We rely on performance advertising channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites and enhance our brand awareness. " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in Internet search engine algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " The national competition authorities ("NCAs") of many governments have begun investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. For example, various European NCAs opened investigations primarily related to Booking.com's contractual price parity arrangements with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions. It is uncertain how these issues will finally be resolved. For example, the French, Italian and Swedish NCAs accepted commitments offered by Booking.com to resolve and close their investigations and Booking.com voluntarily implemented these commitments throughout the European Economic Area and Switzerland on July 1, 2015, which resolved the concerns of various other countries. However, in August 2015, France adopted legislation known as the "Macron Law" making price parity agreements illegal, including those that had been approved by the French NCA and similar legislation is expected to be enacted in Italy. For more information on these investigations and their potential effects on our business, see Note 11 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " As the size of our business grows, we may become increasingly subject to the scrutiny of anti-trust and competition regulators. " To the extent that regulatory authorities impose fines or require changes to our business practices or to those currently common to the industry or legislation is enacted with a similar effect, our business, competitive position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Negative publicity regarding any such investigations could adversely affect our brand and therefore our market share and results of operations. Seasonality A meaningful amount of our gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as the expense is incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which reservations are booked. However, we generally do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs. As a result, we have historically experienced our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation checkouts for the year for our European and North American businesses. We experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters. As these businesses have generally been growing faster than our European and North American businesses, our operating results for the fourth quarter of the year have become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results. In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2016, our first quarter year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were positively impacted by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, as it did in 2015. Conversely, our second quarter 2016 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were adversely impacted by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, as it did in 2015. The timing of other holidays such as Chinese New Year, Carnival and Ramadan can also impact our quarterly year-over-year growth rates. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable advertising expense. In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters. Other Factors We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel-related services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual or extreme weather or natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, droughts and volcanic eruptions, travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, Zika, Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu, SARS and MERS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities or travel-related accidents, can disrupt travel or otherwise result in declines in travel demand. Because these events or concerns are largely unpredictable, they can dramatically and suddenly affect travel behavior by consumers, and therefore demand for our services, which can adversely affect our business and results of operations. For example, our business and operations were negatively impacted by the terror attacks in Paris in November 2015, Brussels in March 2016, Orlando in June 2016 and Nice in July 2016; the coup attempt in Turkey in 33 July 2016; Hurricane Sandy, which disrupted travel in the northeastern United States in late 2012; a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency in Japan in 2011; severe flooding in Thailand in October 2011; and disruptive civil unrest in Thailand in 2014. In addition, MERS had an adverse impact on our business in northeast Asia in 2015. Also, in 2015 regional hostilities in the Middle East spurred an unprecedented flow of migrants from that region to Europe. As countries respond to the European migrant crisis, travel between countries in the European Union and to and from the region could be subject to increased restrictions or the closing of borders, which could negatively impact travel to, from or within the European Union and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. For example, we are investing in growth initiatives at OpenTable, including international expansion, and in building our BookingSuite services. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to grow gross profit and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain gross profit growth and profitability. Since our acquisition of OpenTable, we have invested and intend to continue to invest in OpenTable to accelerate its global expansion, increase the value offered to its restaurant partners and enhance the end-to-end experience for consumers across desktop and mobile devices. As expected, these investments resulted in lower OpenTable post-acquisition EBITDA compared to pre-acquisition levels. However, the time required to execute these investments has exceeded our initial expectations. Despite the delays, we continue to believe that these investments will result in significant future earnings. Future events and changing market conditions may, however, lead us to reevaluate the assumptions we have used to test for goodwill impairment, including key assumptions regarding OpenTable's expected growth rates and operating margins, as well as other key assumptions with respect to matters outside of our control, such as discount rates, currency exchange rates and market EBITDA comparables. We expect OpenTable to complete the technology platform development efforts necessary to enable its global expansion by the end of 2016. As these development efforts are completed and OpenTable's global expansion activities increase, we will refine our forecast accordingly. If OpenTables investments, in particular its investments in its global expansion efforts, are not successful, there is a substantial likelihood that we would recognize a related goodwill impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 34 Results of Operations Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2016 compared to the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2015 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units booked by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers, net of cancellations, and is widely used in the travel business. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Agency $ 15,369 $ 12,867 19.4 % $ 29,903 $ 24,775 20.7 % Merchant 2,494 2,094 19.1 % 4,612 3,961 16.5 % Total $ 17,862 $ 14,960 19.4 % $ 34,515 $ 28,736 20.1 % Gross bookings increased by 19.4% and 20.1% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 21% and 23% , respectively), principally due to growth of 24.4% and 27.4% , respectively, in accommodation room night reservations and growth of 7.9% and 9.3% , respectively, in rental car day reservations, partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, a decrease in accommodation ADRs (the decline on a constant-currency basis was less than 1%) and decreases in airfares and airline ticket reservations. The U.S. Dollar was stronger against the British Pound Sterling and many other currencies for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015, which adversely affected the growth of our agency and merchant gross bookings, expressed in U.S. Dollars. We therefore believe that unit growth rates and total gross bookings and gross profit growth on a constant-currency basis, excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate the charging of customers credit cards. Agency gross bookings increased 19.4% and 20.7% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , primarily due to growth in gross bookings from Booking.com agency retail accommodation room night reservations, as well as growth in gross bookings from agoda.com agency retail hotel reservations and agency retail rental car reservations for Rentalcars.com and priceline.com, partially offset by lower retail airfares and a decline in retail airline ticket reservations. Merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we facilitate the charging of customers credit cards for the travel services provided. Merchant gross bookings increased 19.1% and 16.5% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , primarily due to increases in gross bookings by merchant retail hotel reservation services for Booking.com and priceline.com, priceline.com's Express Deals airline ticket and hotel reservation services, and merchant retail rental car reservations for Rentalcars.com. These increases were partially offset by declines in gross bookings by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services, a portion of agoda.com's accommodation room night reservations shifting to agency and the impact of the stronger U.S. Dollar on agoda.com's merchant retail hotel ADRs. 35 Accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our services for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Room Nights 140.7 113.1 24.4 % 277.2 217.7 27.4 % Rental Car Days 18.5 17.2 7.9 % 34.7 31.7 9.3 % Airline Tickets 2.0 2.1 (6.6 )% 3.8 4.1 (6.9 )% Accommodation room night reservations increased by 24.4% and 27.4% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , primarily due to strong execution by our brand teams to add accommodations to our websites, advertise our brands to consumers and provide a continuously improving experience for customers on our desktop and mobile platforms. Booking.com included about 965,000 properties on its website as of June 30, 2016 , which included over 467,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website), compared to about 742,000 properties (including over 337,000 vacation rental properties) as of June 30, 2015 . Rental car day reservations increased by 7.9% and 9.3% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , due to an increase in price-disclosed rental car day reservations for Rentalcars.com and priceline.com, partially offset by a decrease in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price rental car day reservations. Airline ticket reservations decreased by 6.6% and 6.9% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , due to a decline in priceline.com's retail and Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservations, partially offset by an increase in priceline.com's Express Deals airline ticket reservations. Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate the charging of customers credit cards and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, GDS reservation booking fees related to certain travel services, travel insurance fees and customer processing fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Substantially all of the revenue for Booking.com is agency revenue comprised of travel commissions. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we facilitate the charging of customers credit cards for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction net revenues (i.e., to the extent applicable, the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged to us by travel service providers) in connection with (a) the accommodation reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed accommodation reservation services at agoda.com, priceline.com and Booking.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at Rentalcars.com and Express Deals reservation services at priceline.com; (2) transaction revenues representing the price of Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car, vacation packages and airline ticket reservations charged to a customer (with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues); (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with (a) priceline.com's Express Deals and Name Your Own Price reservation services and (b) merchant retail hotel reservation services at priceline.com and agoda.com; and (4) ancillary fees, including damage excess waiver and travel insurance fees and GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for (a) sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers and (b) advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; (2) revenues earned by OpenTable for (a) reservation fees (fees paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees earned by OpenTable for restaurant reservation management services; (3) revenues earned by priceline.com for advertising on its websites; and (4) revenues 36 generated by Booking.com's BookingSuite branded accommodation marketing and business analytics services. Revenue from KAYAK is net of intercompany revenues earned by KAYAK from other Priceline Group brands. Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Agency Revenues $ 1,852,961 $ 1,582,153 17.1 % $ 3,352,990 $ 2,781,501 20.5 % Merchant Revenues 517,867 546,013 (5.2 )% 987,899 1,040,688 (5.1 )% Advertising and Other Revenues 185,074 152,231 21.6 % 363,132 298,902 21.5 % Total Revenues $ 2,555,902 $ 2,280,397 12.1 % $ 4,704,021 $ 4,121,091 14.1 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 increased 17.1% and 20.5% , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 primarily as a result of growth in the agency business of Booking.com, as well as the agency hotel business of agoda.com and the agency rental car businesses of Rentalcars.com and priceline.com. The U.S. Dollar was stronger against the British Pound Sterling and many other currencies for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , which adversely affected the growth of our agency revenues, expressed in U.S. Dollars. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 decreased 5.2% and 5.1% , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 primarily due to decreases in revenues from priceline.com's Name Your Own Price hotel, airline ticket and rental car reservation services, partially offset by increases in our merchant price-disclosed hotel, rental car and airline ticket businesses. Our priceline.com Name Your Own Price reservation services, which declined year-over-year, are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues. Our other merchant revenues, which in total grew year-over-year, are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs. As a result, changes in Name Your Own Price reservation revenue disproportionately affect merchant revenues as compared to our other merchant revenues. We therefore believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. The U.S. Dollar was stronger against the British Pound Sterling and many other currencies for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , which adversely affected the growth of our merchant revenues, expressed in U.S. Dollars. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 consisted primarily of advertising revenues, restaurant reservation fees and subscription revenues for restaurant reservation management services. Advertising and other revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 increased 21.6% and 21.5% , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 primarily due to growth in our KAYAK business, reservation fees at OpenTable, advertising revenue at priceline.com and subscription revenue at OpenTable. Cost of Revenues Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Cost of Revenues $ 126,084 $ 187,491 (32.8 )% $ 254,753 $ 355,949 (28.4 )% For the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost paid to travel service providers for priceline.com's Name Your Own Price and vacation package reservation services, net of applicable taxes and charges; and (2) fees paid to third parties by KAYAK and priceline.com to return travel itinerary information for consumer search queries. Cost of revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 decreased by 32.8% and 28.4% , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 primarily due to a decrease in priceline.com's Name 37 Your Own Price reservation services. Cost of revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was positively impacted by a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the first quarter of 2015 based on a favorable ruling in the State of Hawaii. Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Agency revenues principally consist of travel commissions on accommodation reservations. Gross Profit Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Gross Profit $ 2,429,818 $ 2,092,906 16.1 % $ 4,449,268 $ 3,765,142 18.2 % Gross Margin 95.1 % 91.8 % 94.6 % 91.4 % Total gross profit for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 increased by 16.1% and 18.2% , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 18% and 22% , respectively), primarily as a result of the increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , because our revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 these revenues represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 . Our price-disclosed reservation services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs, have been growing while priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services have declined. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure for evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $2.1 billion and $3.8 billion of our gross profit for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to $1.8 billion and $3.2 billion for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 . Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased by 17.5% and 20.1% , respectively (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 19% and 24% , respectively) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 . The U.S. Dollar was stronger against the British Pound Sterling and many other currencies for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , which adversely affected the growth of our total and international gross profit, expressed in U.S. Dollars. Gross profit attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by 7.9% and 7.5% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 . Gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was positively impacted by a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the first quarter of 2015 based on a favorable ruling in the State of Hawaii. Our second quarter 2016 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were negatively impacted by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, as it did in 2015, which resulted in Easter-related checkouts, and therefore related revenue and gross profit, generally falling in the first quarter of 2016. We estimate that the earlier Easter timing shifted approximately $40 million of gross profit into the first quarter of 2016 that would have been recognized in the second quarter if Easter had fallen in the second quarter, as it did in 2015. 38 Operating Expenses Advertising Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Performance Advertising $ 920,763 $ 758,690 21.4 % $ 1,700,672 $ 1,392,234 22.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 37.9 % 36.3 % 38.2 % 37.0 % Brand Advertising $ 112,321 $ 78,431 43.2 % $ 182,166 $ 151,685 20.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.6 % 3.7 % 4.1 % 4.0 % Performance advertising expenses consist primarily of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; and (4) other performance-based advertisements. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , performance advertising expenses increased over the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , primarily to generate increased gross bookings. Performance advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2016 increased compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 due to timing of booking versus travel (including Easter shifting into the first quarter of 2016) and growth of paid traffic channels. Performance advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2016 increased compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015 due to the timing difference related to recognizing performance advertising expense when incurred but recognizing revenue at the time of travel and growth of paid traffic channels. Performance advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was positively impacted by a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) based on a favorable ruling in the State of Hawaii. Brand advertising expenses are primarily related to our Booking.com, KAYAK and priceline.com businesses and consist mainly of television advertising, online video advertising (including the airing of our television advertising online) and online display advertising. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , brand advertising expenses increased compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , primarily due to increased television advertising, including associated production costs and agency fees, and online video advertising, principally related to our Booking.com business. We have changed the presentation for advertising expenses in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 1 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Sales and Marketing $ 105,522 $ 94,523 11.6 % $ 197,845 $ 176,467 12.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.3 % 4.5 % 4.4 % 4.7 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) customer relations costs; (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables; (5) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (6) promotional and trade show costs. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 due primarily to increased gross booking volumes. 39 Personnel Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Personnel $ 332,654 $ 289,156 15.0 % $ 641,005 $ 548,140 16.9 % % of Total Gross Profit 13.7 % 13.8 % 14.4 % 14.6 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes, and employee health and other benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses. Personnel expenses for the six months ended June 30, 2016 were favorably impacted by the reversal of unpaid 2015 bonus accruals. General and Administrative Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change General and Administrative $ 112,642 $ 98,945 13.8 % $ 225,687 $ 199,123 13.3 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.6 % 4.7 % 5.1 % 5.3 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) personnel-related expenses such as travel, recruiting and training expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , due primarily to higher occupancy and office expenses related to the expansion of our international businesses, higher personnel-related expenses related to increased headcount in all of our businesses, and higher fees for outside professionals. Information Technology Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Information Technology $ 35,797 $ 27,156 31.8 % $ 68,585 $ 52,517 30.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.5 % 1.3 % 1.5 % 1.4 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; (3) outsourced data center costs; and (4) payments to outside consultants. Information technology expense increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 77,712 $ 67,674 14.8 % $ 150,583 $ 132,676 13.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.2 % 3.2 % 3.4 % 3.5 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , 40 depreciation and amortization expenses increased compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 primarily as a result of increased depreciation expenses due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build-outs to support growth and geographic expansion, as well as increased capitalized software development costs. Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Interest Income $ 21,292 $ 13,037 63.3 % $ 41,639 $ 24,633 69.0 % Interest Expense (50,290 ) (41,547 ) 21.0 % (97,184 ) (75,026 ) 29.5 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other 1,997 (1,444 ) (238.3 )% (10,931 ) (6,287 ) 73.9 % Impairment of cost-method investments (12,858 ) 100.0 % (63,208 ) 100.0 % Total $ (39,859 ) $ (29,954 ) 33.1 % $ (129,684 ) $ (56,680 ) 128.8 % For the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , interest income on cash and marketable securities increased compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , primarily due to an increase in the average invested balance and higher yields. Interest expense increased for the three months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 , primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes issued in November 2015 and May 2016. Interest expense increased for the six months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015 , primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes issued in March 2015, November 2015 and May 2016, partially offset by the maturity of our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes in March 2015. See Note 7 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $3.9 million and $0.3 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to foreign exchange losses of $1.7 million and foreign exchange gains of $0.2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , respectively, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in foreign exchange losses of $3.8 million and $10.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , respectively, and foreign exchange losses of $1.2 million and $9.6 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , respectively, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 we recognized $2.1 million of net realized gains and $0.8 million of net realized losses, respectively, compared to $1.6 million and $3.4 million of net realized gains for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , respectively, related to investments, which are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2016, we recognized impairments of approximately $13 million and $63 million , respectively, related to cost-method investments (see Note 4 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Income Taxes Three Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) Six Months Ended June 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Income Tax Expense $ 111,910 $ 131,345 (14.8 )% $ 197,979 $ 205,261 (3.5 )% Our effective tax rate for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 was 16.2% and 17.2% , respectively, compared to 20.3% and 19.4% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , respectively. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%, due to lower tax rates outside the United States, partially offset by U.S. state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. Our effective tax rate was lower for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 , primarily due to U.S. state tax law changes which resulted in a decrease to our 41 deferred tax liabilities associated with acquired intangible assets and an increased proportion of our income being taxed at lower international tax rates due to the growth of our international businesses, offset by an increase in the tax rate that arises because the impairments of our Hotel Urbano investment of approximately $50 million in the first quarter of 2016 and approximately $10 million in the second quarter of 2016 are not tax deductible (see Note 4 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). According to Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying innovative activities is taxed at a rate of 5% ("Innovation Box Tax") rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment, which had a significant beneficial impact on the Company's effective tax rate for those periods. While we expect Booking.com to continue to qualify for Innovation Box Tax treatment with respect to a portion of its earnings for the foreseeable future, the loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit, whether due to a change in tax law or a determination by the Dutch government that Booking.com's activities are not "innovative" or for any other reason, would substantially increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our results of operations. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We may not be able to maintain our 'Innovation Box Tax' benefit. " Until our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, most of our U.S. income will not be subject to a cash tax liability, other than federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our international income except in countries where we have net operating loss carryforwards. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income faster than our U.S. businesses over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international businesses generate an increasing share of our pretax income and upon full utilization of our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards. As of June 30, 2016 , we held approximately $10.7 billion of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments outside of the United States. We currently intend to use our cash held outside the United States to reinvest in our international operations. If that intention changes and we decide to repatriate that cash to the United States, whether due to cash needs in the United States or otherwise, we would incur related U.S. income tax expense, and we would only make income tax payments when we repatriate the cash. We would pay only U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and certain U.S. state income taxes as long as we have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset our U.S. taxable income. As of December 31, 2015, we had net operating loss carryforwards of $847.9 million and $620.9 million for federal and state tax purposes, respectively. If our foreign earnings were repatriated, this could result in us being subject to a cash income tax liability on the earnings of our U.S. businesses sooner than would otherwise have been the case. After our net operating loss carryforwards have been fully utilized, foreign tax credits associated with the repatriation of international cash may be used to reduce U.S. federal taxes on the repatriation. 42 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2016 , we had $12.3 billion in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments. Approximately $10.7 billion is held by our international subsidiaries and is denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars, Euros and, to a lesser extent, British Pounds Sterling and other currencies. We currently intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of the United States. If we repatriate cash to the United States, we would utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and beyond that amount incur additional tax payments in the United States. Cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments are comprised of U.S. and foreign corporate bonds, U.S. and foreign government securities, commercial paper, U.S. government agency securities, convertible debt securities and American Depositary Shares ("ADSs") of Ctrip and bank deposits. In May 2016, we issued Senior Notes due June 1, 2026, with an interest rate of 3.6% (the "2026 Notes") for an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion . Interest on the 2026 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1, beginning December 1, 2016. The net proceeds of these notes may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include share repurchases, repayment of debt and acquisitions. See Note 7 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the 2026 Notes. In June 2015, we entered into a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.50% ; or (ii) the greatest of (a) Bank of America, N.A.'s prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% , and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00% , plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50% . Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.085% to 0.20% . The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $70.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50.0 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of June 30, 2016 , there were no borrowings outstanding and approximately $3.6 million of letters of credit issued under the facility. During the six months ended June 30, 2016 , we repurchased 437,798 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $558.7 million , which includes stock repurchases in June 2016 of 27,320 shares for an aggregate cost of $33.5 million that were settled in July 2016. As of June 30, 2016 , we had a remaining authorization of $2.6 billion from our Board of Directors to purchase our common stock. During the period from July 1, 2016 through July 29, 2016, we repurchased 52,609 additional shares for an aggregate cost of $68.6 million . We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. We expect to use cash on hand and cash generated by our operations in the United States to fund our share repurchases. We may also utilize our revolving credit facility or raise funds through the debt capital markets to fund share repurchases. Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from consumers and then we pay most of our travel service providers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant seasonal swings in accounts receivable, deferred merchant bookings and travel service provider payables depending on the level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was $1.3 billion , resulting from net income of $955.1 million , a favorable impact of $309.0 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows and net favorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $46.3 million . For the six months ended June 30, 2016 , prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $287.0 million , primarily related to prepayments of 2016 income taxes in the first quarter of $431.3 million to earn prepayment discounts, principally by Booking.com. For the six months ended June 30, 2016 , accounts receivable increased $344.1 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $688.0 million , primarily related to seasonality and increases in business volumes. Our bookings and revenues are generally higher in the second quarter of the year than in the fourth quarter of the year which typically results in higher accounts receivable, deferred merchant bookings, accounts payable and accrued expenses at June 30 compared to December 31. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, impairment of cost-method investments, amortization of debt discount on our convertible notes and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was $911.4 million, resulting from net income of $850.4 million and a favorable impact of $257.0 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially 43 offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $196.0 million. For the six months ended June 30, 2015, prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $300.5 million, principally related to a $423.8 million prepayment of 2015 income taxes in the first six months by Booking.com to earn a prepayment discount. For the six months ended June 30, 2015, accounts receivable increased $287.9 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $405.8 million, primarily related to seasonality and increases in business volumes. The growth in deferred merchant bookings was partly offset by an initiative at agoda.com which allows their customers to pay near the time of travel rather than at the time of making a reservation. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes and deferred income taxes. Net cash used in investing activities was $639.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 . Investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 were principally affected by net purchases of investments of $524.8 million . Net cash used in investing activities was $2.6 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2015. Investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2015 were affected by net purchases of investments of $2.5 billion, $45.9 million used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and net proceeds of $5.2 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts. Cash invested in the purchase of property and equipment was $113.7 million and $84.4 million in the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities was $540.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 . Cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 primarily consisted of net proceeds of $994.7 million from the issuance of Senior Notes, excess tax benefits on stock-based awards and other equity deductions of $61.5 million and the exercise of employee stock options of $9.8 million , partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $525.1 million . Net cash provided by financing activities was $0.6 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2015. Cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2015 primarily consisted of total net proceeds of $1.6 billion from the issuance of Senior Notes, the exercise of employee stock options of $12.8 million and excess tax benefits on stock-based awards and other equity deductions of $68.2 million, partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $986.6 million and payments of $147.6 million related to the conversion of Senior Notes. Contingencies French tax authorities recently concluded an audit that started in 2013 of the years 2003 through 2012 to determine whether Booking.com is in compliance with its tax obligations in France. Booking.com received formal assessments in December 2015 in which the French tax authorities claim that Booking.com has a permanent establishment in France and seek to recover unpaid income taxes and value-added taxes of approximately 356 million Euros, the majority of which would represent penalties and interest. We believe that Booking.com has been, and continues to be, in compliance with French tax law and we intend to contest the assessments. If we are unable to resolve the matter with the French authorities, we would expect to challenge the assessments in the French courts. In order to contest the assessments in court, we may be required to pay, upfront, the full amount or a significant part of any such assessments, though any such payment would not constitute an admission by us that we owe the taxes. French authorities may decide to also audit subsequent tax years, which could result in additional assessments. See Part II Item IA Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " A number of U.S. jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against online travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). In addition, a number of U.S. states, counties and municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes. For additional information, see Note 11 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Adverse application of U.S. state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. " in this Quarterly Report. As a result of this litigation and other attempts by U.S. jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual (including estimated interest and penalties) for the potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes in the amount of approximately $27 million as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 . The accrual is based on our estimate of the probable cost of resolving these issues. Our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded. An estimate for a reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount accrued cannot be reasonably made. If we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash we believe that it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. 44 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2016 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Sections of this Form 10-Q including, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above and the Risk Factors contained in Part II Item 1A hereof, contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Part II Item 1A, Risk Factors. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 , and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.