Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Trends. Macroeconomic uncertainties have led to significant volatility in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British Pound Sterling, and other currencies, stock markets, and oil prices, which can also impact consumer travel behavior. For example, although lower oil prices may lead to increased travel activity as consumers could have more discretionary funds and airline fares decrease, declines in oil prices may be indicative of broader macroeconomic weakness, which in turn could negatively affect the travel industry, our business, and results of operations. Conversely, higher oil prices may result in higher airfares and decreased travel activity, which can negatively affect our business and results of operations. The uncertainty of macroeconomic factors and their impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Other events beyond our control such as terrorist attacks, extreme weather or natural disasters, wars and regional hostilities, travel-related accidents, or increased focus on the environmental impact of travel may disrupt travel, limit the ability or willingness of travelers to visit certain locations, or otherwise result in declines in demand for our travel offerings and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, responses to such events by governments, organizations like the United Nations, or others, could limit or prohibit travel in ways that are not foreseeable and could impact our ability to conduct our business. Because these events and their impacts, as well as international responses to such events, are largely unpredictable, they can dramatically and suddenly affect travel behavior by consumers, demand for and provision of our services, and relationships with travel service providers and other partners, any of which can adversely affect our business and results of operations. Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. We compete globally with both online and traditional travel and restaurant reservation and related services. The markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive, constantly evolving, and subject to rapid change, and current and new competitors can and do launch new services at a relatively low cost. Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple, Alibaba, Tencent, Amazon, Uber, and Meta, have significantly more customers or users, consumer data, and financial and other resources than we do, and may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to compete more effectively with us. For example, Googles online travel offerings have grown rapidly by linking travel search services to its dominant search functionality through flight, hotel, and alternative accommodations meta-search products, and integrating its hotel meta-search products and restaurant information and reservation products into Google Maps. As the economy and the travel industry recover from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the structure of the travel industry or consumer preferences could change in ways that could disadvantage us and benefit certain of our existing competitors or new entrants. For example, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting international travel restrictions and social distancing practices, we saw a shift in favor of domestic travel and alternative accommodations. This shift could benefit competitors that are more well established in domestic markets and alternative accommodations. As a result, our historical strengths may not provide the competitive advantages that they did prior to the pandemic. If we are unable to successfully adapt to changes in how the travel industry operates or to changes in the ways in which consumers purchase travel services, our ability to compete, and therefore our business and results of operations, would be adversely affected. We currently, or may in the future, compete with companies that provide a variety of products and services, including: online travel reservation services; online accommodation search and/or reservation services that are focused primarily on alternative accommodations; travel service providers (e.g., accommodations, rental car companies, or airlines) that have their own branded online platforms to which they drive business and may be able to offer lower prices on their direct channel than they provide to us; 11 large online companies, including search, social networking, and marketplace companies; traditional travel agencies, travel management companies, wholesalers and tour operators, many of which combine physical locations, telephone services, and online services; online travel meta-search and price comparison services; "Super apps" that offer consumers a wide range of everyday and other services including travel bookings; companies offering car- or ride-sharing services that affect demand for rental cars, some of which have developed innovative technologies to improve efficiency of point-to-point transportation and extensively utilize mobile platforms; online restaurant reservation services; and companies offering technology services and software solutions to travel service providers, including large global distribution systems ("GDSs") and hospitality software and payments platforms. Meta-search services leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the consumer's specific itinerary across travel service providers, online travel companies ("OTCs"), and other online platforms and in many instances compete directly with us for customers. Google leverages its general search business to promote its meta-search offerings by showing meta-search results at the top of its organic search results and it offers its meta-search services free to travel service providers. Google and other meta-search services may evolve into more traditional OTCs by offering consumers the ability to make travel reservations directly through their platforms. If consumers book travel services through such a service or directly with a travel service provider without using an OTC like us, or if meta-search services limit our participation within their search results or evolve into more traditional OTCs, we may need to increase our marketing or other customer acquisition costs to maintain or grow our reservation bookings and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. As the market for travel services has evolved, there has also been a proliferation of new channels through which accommodation providers can offer reservations. Companies such as Airbnb and Expedia Group, primarily through Vrbo, offer services providing alternative accommodation property owners an online place to list their accommodations where travelers can search and book such properties and compete directly with our alternative accommodation services. In addition, companies such as Airbnb that have in the past exclusively provided alternative accommodations have expanded into traditional accommodation offerings. Meta-search services may lower the cost for new companies to enter the market by providing a distribution channel without the cost of promoting the new entrant's brand to drive consumers directly to its platform. Some of our competitors and potential competitors offer a variety of online services, such as food delivery, shopping, gaming, or search services, many of which are used by consumers more frequently than online travel services, and new travel-related services are frequently being introduced to the market. A competitor or potential competitor that has established other, more frequent online or app-based interactions with consumers may be able to more easily or cost-effectively acquire customers for its online travel services than we can. For example, global companies with widely used mobile applications that enter the travel industry, such as Uber, have the potential to grow quickly. Some competitors or potential competitors with more frequent online interactions with consumers have created or are seeking to create "super-apps" where consumers can use many online services without leaving that company's app, in particular in Asia where online activity (including e-commerce) is conducted primarily through apps on mobile devices. Some competitors and new entrants to the travel services industry include private equity funded entities, which can more easily withstand significant losses for an extended period of time while such new entrants build market share through heavy marketing and/or discounting of their services. If any of these competitors are successful in offering new travel-related services or services similar to ours to consumers who would otherwise use our platforms or if we are unable to offer our services to consumers within these super-apps, our customer acquisition efforts could be less effective and our customer acquisition costs, including our marketing expenses, could increase, either of which would harm our business and results of operations. Travel service providers with which we conduct business compete with us in online channels to drive consumers directly to their own platforms. Travel service providers, such as large hotel chains, may charge lower prices and offer advantages such as loyalty points or special discounts to members of closed-user groups (such as loyalty program participants or consumers with registered accounts), any of which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than our services. We also offer various incentives to consumers and may need to offer additional or increased incentives to maintain or grow our reservation bookings, which could adversely impact our profit margins. Further, consolidation among travel service providers could result in lower OTC commission rates, increased discounting, and greater incentives for consumers to join closed-user groups as such travel service providers expand their offerings. If we are not as effective as our competitors in offering 12 discounted prices and other incentives or value to consumers, our ability to grow and compete and our results of operations could be harmed. Although we believe that providing an extensive collection of properties, excellent customer service, and an intuitive, easy-to-use consumer experience are important factors influencing a consumer's decision to make a reservation, for many consumers the price of the travel service is the primary factor determining whether to book a reservation. It is increasingly important to offer travel services at competitive prices, whether through discounts, coupons, closed-user group rates or loyalty programs, increased flexibility in cancellation policies, or otherwise. Discounting and couponing coupled with a high degree of consumer shopping behavior has become typical throughout the world, particularly in Asian markets. In some cases, our competitors are willing to make little or no profit on a transaction or offer travel services at a loss in order to gain market share. As a result, in certain markets we may need to provide discounts or other incentives in order to be competitive, which may make it difficult for us to maintain or grow market share, maintain historical profit margins, and may also result in lower ADRs and lower revenues as a percentage of gross bookings. If we are unable to effectively offer competitive prices, our market share, business, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We face risks related to the growth rate and the global expansion of our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues and have significant operations outside the United States. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, our OTC operations outside of the United States historically had achieved significant year-over-year growth in their gross bookings, in particular Booking.coms accommodation reservation services. Without taking into consideration the recent declines caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, these growth rates, which contributed significantly to our historical growth in consolidated revenues and earnings, had generally declined over time as the absolute level of our gross bookings increased and online travel growth rates declined. In addition to the general slowing growth rates of online travel and the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, other factors may also slow the growth rates of our businesses outside of the United States, including worldwide or regional economic conditions, strengthening of the U.S. Dollar versus the Euro, the British Pound Sterling, and other currencies, declines in ADRs, increases in cancellations, adverse changes in travel market conditions, and the competitiveness of the market. Any decline in the growth rates of our businesses outside of the U.S. negatively impacts our revenue and earnings growth rates and as a consequence our stock price. Our long-term strategy involves continued expansion throughout the world, and we are subject to associated risks typical of international businesses. International markets may have strong local competitors with an established brand and travel service provider or restaurant relationships that may make expansion in that market difficult or costly and take more time than anticipated. Certain markets in which we operate have unique localized preferences and lower operating margins compared to other markets. Scaling and growing our business in these markets, in particular in Asia, could require significant investment, which could have a negative impact on our profit margins. In some markets such as China, legal and other regulatory requirements may prohibit or limit participation by foreign businesses, such as by making foreign ownership or management of internet or travel-related businesses illegal or difficult, or may make direct participation in those markets uneconomical, which could make our entry into and expansion in those markets difficult or impossible, require that we work with a local partner, or result in higher operating costs. If we are unsuccessful in expanding in new and existing markets and effectively managing that expansion, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We intend to continue to improve the accommodation choices available for reservation on our platforms, however the growth rate of the number of accommodations on our platforms may vary in part as a result of removing accommodations from our platforms from time to time. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly-penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts). We believe that the number, variety, and quality of accommodations on our platforms, and the corresponding access to accommodation room nights, had been a key driver of the growth of our accommodation reservation business prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. As accommodation providers recover from the COVID-19 pandemic and occupancy rates increase, they may wish to limit the amount of business that flows through certain distribution channels. Also, certain jurisdictions have instituted regulations intended to address the issues of "overtourism" and the impact of tourism on climate, including by restricting accommodation offerings in city centers or near popular tourist destinations, such as by restricting construction of new hotels or the renting of homes or apartments, introducing quota or registration systems, or increasing visitor fees or taxes. Such restrictions could also include limiting the number of tourists permitted to visit and stay near popular areas during peak seasons or as a general matter. As a result, we may experience constraints on the number of listings, or accommodation room nights, actually available to us or could experience a decrease in demand if consumers cannot book the experiences they would like during their trip, which could negatively impact our business growth rate and results of operations. 13 The COVID-19 pandemic has materially adversely affected, and may further adversely impact, our business and financial performance. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, certain governments and businesses around the world continue to implement a variety of restrictive measures to reduce the spread of COVID-19. These measures have had a significant adverse effect on many of the partners on which our business relies, including hotels and other accommodation providers, airlines, and restaurants, as well as on our consumers, operations, and workforce. The spread of variants of COVID-19 and ongoing restrictive measures in certain places have caused uncertainty. We cannot predict the long-term effects of the pandemic on our business or the travel and restaurant industries as a whole. If the travel and restaurant industries are fundamentally changed by the COVID-19 pandemic in ways that are detrimental to our operating model, our business may continue to be adversely affected even as the broader global economy recovers. Our financial results and prospects are almost entirely dependent on facilitating the sale of travel-related services. While the year began with the Omicron variant surge which resulted in a decrease in consumers traveling and dining out, most of the government restrictions on travel-related services have subsided and travel demand has generally returned. See Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Trends. The ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and growth prospects depends on any resurgences of the pandemic; efficacy of vaccines and other medical interventions to alleviate or treat COVID-19, and their impacts on the travel and restaurant industries and consumer spending more broadly; actions taken by national, state, and local governments to contain the disease or treat its impact; employee engagement, including the health and productivity of management and our employees; any impact on our contracts and relationships with our partners; and the duration, timing, and severity of the impact on customer spending, including other economic impacts such as inflation that have resulted in part from the pandemic. The effects of the pandemic, including the imposition of travel restrictions, may continue to fluctuate throughout the world, which could continue to affect our business. If ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affect our business and financial performance, it may also heighten many of the other risks identified in this section. We are dependent on providers of accommodations, rental cars, and airline tickets and on restaurants. We rely on providers of accommodations, rental cars, and airline tickets, and on restaurants, to make their services available to consumers through us. Our arrangements with travel service providers generally do not require them to make available any specific quantity of accommodation reservations, rental cars, or airline tickets, or to make accommodation reservations, rental cars, or airline tickets available in any geographic area, for any particular route, or at any particular price. Similarly, our arrangements with restaurants generally do not require them to provide all of their available tables and reservations to customers through us. We are in regular dialogue with our major travel service providers about the nature and extent of their participation in our services. A significant reduction on the part of any of our major travel service providers or providers that are particularly popular with consumers for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal in favor of one of our competitors services or requiring consumers to purchase directly from them could have a material adverse effect on our business, market share, and results of operations. During periods of higher occupancy rates, accommodation providers may decrease their distribution of accommodation reservations through third-party intermediaries like us, particularly with regard to our discounted offerings. Further, as consolidation among travel service providers increases, the potential adverse effect of a decision by any particular significant travel service provider (such as a large hotel chain, airline, or rental car company) to withdraw from or reduce its participation in our services also increases. In particular, the potential harm to our business and results of operations is greater if any larger partners such as airlines, hotel chains, or large rental car companies declare bankruptcy or close. To the extent restaurants limit the availability of reservations through OpenTable or if a significant number of restaurants cease to participate in our services, consumers may not continue to use our services and/or our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. We offer a range of optional insurance products and coverages related to our travel offerings primarily through unaffiliated third-party insurance providers. We are dependent on such providers to make their services available to consumers through us. Our business and reputation may be adversely affected if such insurers no longer make such insurance offerings available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all or if such insurance providers fail to pay out under these insurance policies. KAYAK, a meta-search service, depends on access to information related to travel service pricing, schedules, availability, and other related information from OTCs and travel service providers to attract consumers. Many of KAYAK's agreements with OTCs and travel service providers are short-term agreements that may be terminated on 30 days' notice. To the extent OTCs or travel service providers no longer provide such information to KAYAK, KAYAK's ability to provide comprehensive travel service information to consumers could be diminished and its brand, business, and results of operations could be harmed. To the extent consumers do not view KAYAK as a reliable source of comprehensive travel service 14 information, fewer consumers would likely visit its websites, which would also likely have a negative impact on KAYAK's advertising revenue and results of operations. In addition, if OTCs or travel service providers choose not to advertise with KAYAK or choose to reduce or eliminate the fees paid to KAYAK for referrals from query results, KAYAK's business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face risks related to the growth of our alternative accommodations business. As our alternative accommodations business continues to grow, we face new risks relating to characteristics of this business that impact our profits and other metrics. We may also face new claims of liability and are subject to regulatory developments that affect our business. Because alternative accommodations are often either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, these properties generally represent more limited booking opportunities than hotels, motels, and resorts, which generally have more units to rent per property. Further, alternative accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality or may not be available at peak times due to use by the property owners. Lower profit margins are associated with alternative accommodation properties due to certain additional costs related to offering these accommodations on our platforms. As we increase our alternative accommodation business, these different characteristics negatively impact our profit margins and to the extent these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties we add to our platforms, we expect that our room-night growth rate and property growth rate will continue to diverge over time (since each such alternative accommodation property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result, as the percentage of alternative accommodation properties increases, the number of reservations per property will likely continue to decrease. In addition, as our alternative accommodation reservation business grows, we may experience claims of liability based on events occurring at properties listed on our platforms such as robbery, injury, death, discrimination, or other criminal activities. We have no control over the actions or ability to predict the actions of our consumers, property owners, and other third parties during the customers stay, and as a result we cannot guarantee the safety of our consumers, property owners, and third parties. In addition, we have not in the past and may not in the future undertake to independently verify the safety, suitability, location, quality, and legal compliance, such as fire code compliance or the presence of carbon monoxide detectors, of all our alternative accommodation listings. We have in the past relied and may in the future rely on property owners to disclose information relating to their listings and such information may be inaccurate or incomplete. In addition, Booking.com facilitates the provision of partner liability insurance that may protect alternative accommodation partners against liability claims, lawsuits by third parties for bodily injury, or personal property damage that occur during a stay at a partner property reserved via Booking.com. This partner liability insurance, if applicable to the claim, may provide partners with up to $1.0 million equivalent (policy limit) of third party liability coverage related to investigation, defense, and/or other costs related to the underlying claim. The Company could be required to pay amounts in excess of the partner liability policy limit. Any resulting complaints or claims, even if such a claim does not result in liability, could result in negative publicity and increased costs, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, and results of operations. Further, the regulatory environment related to the alternative accommodations business is evolving, and laws, regulations, or property association rules could impose restrictions or burdens on these property owners and managers that limit or negatively affect their ability to rent their properties. For example, the European Commission has proposed a short-term rental regulation which, if enacted, could have a material impact on the way short-term rentals are regulated in the European Union and the obligations on platforms including around data sharing or the need to enforce local registration schemes, and in conjunction with the Digital Services Act. For additional discussion regarding the Digital Services Act, see below Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " Our business is subject to various competition/anti-trust, consumer protection, and online commerce laws, rules, and regulations around the world, and as the size of our business grows, scrutiny of our business by legislators and regulators in these areas may intensify." Some jurisdictions have adopted or are considering statutes or ordinances that prohibit owners and managers from renting certain properties for fewer than a stated number of consecutive days or for more than an aggregate total number of days per year or that require owners or managers to obtain a license to rent their properties. From time to time, we are subject to inquiries related to compliance with alternative accommodation laws, rules, and regulations that we may not be able to respond to in a timely manner or in full satisfaction of such requests. The outcome of such inquiries has resulted in fines and could result in additional fines, adversely affect our reputation, or require modifications to our business operations, which could result in increased legal and compliance costs. In addition, several jurisdictions have adopted or are considering adopting statutes or ordinances requiring online platforms that list certain alternative accommodations to obtain a license to list such accommodations and/or to comply with other restrictions or requirements. Laws, rules, and regulations applicable to alternative accommodations are evolving and can be distinct and inconsistent among the various municipalities, regions, and countries in which we operate. As a result, tracking and compliance with these laws, rules, and regulations can be difficult and costly. As governments adopt new laws, rules, and regulations related to alternative accommodations, we are unable to predict what, if any, effect they may have on our business. This dynamic regulatory environment requires us to expend significant time and resources and could negatively impact the growth and/or size of our alternative accommodation reservation business. 15 We rely on marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our platforms and grow our business. Maintaining and strengthening our brands are important aspects of our efforts to attract and retain customers. We have invested considerable resources in the establishment and maintenance of our brands, and we intend to continue to invest resources in marketing and other brand building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our brands when and to the extent we deem appropriate. Our marketing spend is influenced by the marketing spend of our competitors as we seek to maintain and increase our brand recognition and to maintain and grow traffic to our platforms through performance marketing channels. We may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness and acceptance of our brands, and even if we are successful in our branding efforts such efforts may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness and acceptance of our brands in a cost-effective manner, our business, market share, and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our marketing efficiency, expressed as marketing expense as a percentage of revenues, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and are in some cases outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign currency exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers, and the extent to which consumers come directly to our websites or mobile apps for bookings. Deterioration in our marketing efficiency could result in reduced revenues or revenue growth, or marketing expenses increasing faster than revenues, which would reduce margins and earnings growth. For example, competition for desired rankings in search results and/or a decline in ad clicks by consumers could increase our costs-per-click and impede our marketing efficiency. For more information regarding the role of online search engines in generating traffic to our websites, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in online search and meta-search algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " At times we may pursue a strategy of increasing marketing returns on investment ("ROIs"), which could negatively affect our gross bookings and revenue growth rates. When evaluating our performance marketing spend generally, we consider several factors for each channel, such as the customer experience on the advertising platform, the incrementality of the traffic we receive, the anticipated repeat rate from a particular platform, and the likelihood of cancellation. Pursuing a strategy of improving marketing ROIs along with factors such as competitors' actions in the bidding environment, the amount of marketing invested by these channels to generate demand, and overall marketing platform traffic growth trends, which have shown volatility and long-term deceleration of growth rates, may also impact growth rates for marketing channels. Many factors could cause consumers to increase their shopping activity before making a travel purchase. Increased shopping activity impedes our marketing efficiency and effectiveness because traffic becomes less likely to result in a reservation through our platforms, and such traffic is more likely to be obtained through paid marketing channels than through direct channels. Further, consumers may favor travel services offered by search or meta-search companies over OTCs, which could reduce traffic to our travel reservation platforms, increase consumer awareness of our competitors' brands and platforms, increase our marketing and other customer acquisition costs, and adversely affect our business, margins, and results of operations. To the extent any such increased shopping behavior leads to growth in our KAYAK meta-search business, such growth may not result in sufficient increases in revenues from our KAYAK meta-search business to offset any related decrease in revenues or increase in marketing and other customer acquisition costs experienced by our OTC brands. We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological or other market changes. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, consolidation, frequent new service announcements, introductions and enhancements, and changing consumer demands and preferences. These characteristics are changing at an even greater pace as OTCs and travel service providers seek to address consumer needs and preferences that resulted from the COVID-19 pandemic. We may not be able to keep up with these rapid changes. In addition, these market characteristics are heightened by the progress of technology adoption in various markets, including the continuing adoption of the internet and online commerce in certain geographies and the growth of the use of smartphones, tablets, and other smart devices for mobile e-commerce transactions. New developments in other areas such as cloud computing could make entering our markets easier for competitors due to lower upfront technology costs. It is increasingly important for us to effectively offer our services on mobile devices through mobile apps and mobile-optimized websites and to tailor our services to varying devices and platforms. See below Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " Consumer adoption and use of mobile devices creates challenges and may enable device companies such as Google and Apple to compete directly with us ." Additionally, our ability to achieve our long-term strategy to build the Connected Trip depends on successfully integrating and developing new and evolving technologies, which will require increased financial and personnel investments that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations until we achieve the expected return on these investments. While we believe that we have the ability to achieve our long-term strategy to build the Connected Trip, the development of the 16 Connected Trip is subject to uncertainties, including further technical development of the flight, accommodation, and other verticals and technological capabilities necessary for the Connected Trip experience, the ability to collect, store, and use customer data in a compliant and integrated fashion, and the attraction and retention of employees dedicated to this development effort. As a result, it may take longer than we expect to build the Connected Trip or it may not achieve the expected return on investment. Consumer demand for the Connected Trip may also not be sustained at the levels that we anticipate. These efforts may also not be successful in improving the travel experience or retaining and attracting new customers. Further, regulatory authorities may subject us to existing or new rules or restrictions that could prevent us from successfully commercializing the Connected Trip or expose us to unanticipated claims or liabilities. With any technical innovation such as the Connected Trip effort, there could be bugs, vulnerabilities, and other system failures, which could result in lost business, harm to our brand or reputation, consumer complaints, and other adverse consequences, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are working toward enhancing our payments capabilities, including by offering alternative payment solutions to consumers even when those payment solutions may not be accepted by the travel service provider or restaurant. In many markets, particularly in Asia where credit cards are not readily available and/or e-commerce is largely carried out through mobile devices, alternative payment methods like Alipay, Paytm, and WeChat Pay that operate closed loop payments systems are the exclusive or preferred means of payment for many consumers. If we are unable to offer consumers their preferred method of payment by integrating new or emerging payment methods into our platforms, we may not be able to effectively offer our services to these consumers, which would limit our growth opportunities in these markets and our business and results of operations could be harmed. Furthermore, in the future the competitive pressure to innovate could encompass a wider range of services and technologies, including services and technologies that may be outside of our historical core business, and our ability to keep pace may slow. Emerging start-ups may be able to innovate and focus on developing a particularly new product or service faster than we can or may foresee consumer need for new services or technologies before we do. Some of our competitors have more resources or more established or varied relationships with consumers than we have, and they could use these advantages to innovate in ways that could affect our competitive position. In addition, the widespread adoption of new internet, networking, or telecommunications technologies, such as artificial intelligence including machine learning ("AI"), smart home devices, chatbot, virtual reality technologies, development of the metaverse, and the creation of new "super-apps" could influence how customers search for and book travel, and require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. For example, we incorporate AI into certain of our offerings. The use of AI presents risks and challenges including that algorithms may be flawed, datasets may be insufficient, erroneous, stale, or contain biased information, or content chosen for display to users by AI systems may be discriminatory, offensive, illegal, or otherwise harmful. These deficiencies and other failures of AI systems could subject us to competitive harm, regulatory action, legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services and online platforms to evolving industry standards and local preferences, and to continually innovate and improve the performance, features, and reliability of our services and online platforms in response to competitive service offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. We rely on the performance of highly skilled employees; and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key employees or hire, retain, and motivate well-qualified employees, our business would be harmed. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals, including key senior management in the United States, Europe, and Asia. We may not be able to retain the services of members of our senior management or other key employees, the loss of whom could harm our business and competitive position. We had approximately 21,600 employees worldwide at December 31, 2022. Our future success and ability to innovate depends on our continuing to identify, attract, hire, develop, motivate, and retain a highly skilled, global, diverse workforce. In addition, our customer service resources and outsource arrangements for customer support may be unable to provide adequate customer service support, particularly during peak periods. The COVID-19 pandemic has had and will have a long-term effect on how and from where people work, the attractiveness of our office environments, and remote working policies, and there may continue to be operational and workplace cultural challenges that may adversely affect our business, including talent retention, in the shorter term. Competition for well-qualified employees in all aspects of our business, especially software engineers, mobile communication talent, product professionals, and other technology professionals, is intense and costly. In particular, our success in markets across Europe, the United States, and Asia has led to increased efforts by our competitors and others to hire our employees. These difficulties may be amplified by increased ability to work remotely, evolving restrictions on immigration and 17 travel or availability of visas or work permits for skilled technology workers, and laws or regulations in jurisdictions where we operate, such as a new cap on the Dutch (partial) tax exemption that benefits certain non-Dutch citizens working in the Netherlands. The competition for talent in our industry, including among established technology companies and startups, combined with inflationary pressure on compensation has caused our personnel expenses to attract and retain key talent to increase, which may adversely affect our results of operations. There is also competition for technology talent from companies with whom we did not historically compete for talent that are transitioning to digital. The competition for talent is exacerbated by an increased willingness of certain companies to offer flexible and remote working policies, which expands the pool of candidates from which our competitors may attract talent. If we do not succeed in attracting and retaining well-qualified employees, our business, our ability to grow and innovate, competitive position, reputation, and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our business could be negatively affected by changes in online search and meta-search algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. We use Google to generate a significant portion of traffic to our platforms and, to a lesser extent, we use other search and meta-search services to generate traffic to our platforms, principally through pay-per-click marketing campaigns. The pricing and operating dynamics on these search and meta-search platforms can experience rapid change commercially, technically, and competitively. For example, Google frequently updates and changes the logic which determines the placement and display of results of a consumer's search, such that the placement of links to our platforms can be negatively affected and our costs to improve or maintain our placement in search results can increase. The European Commission has fined Google significant amounts for anti-competitive behavior relating to its comparison-shopping service and online search advertising services. Changes by Google in how it presents travel search results, including promotion of its own travel meta-search services, amounts charged to travel partners for referrals, or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results may be competitively disadvantageous to us, may increase our costs, and may impact our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our platforms, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our business, market share, and results of operations. In addition, a decline or slowing growth in travel search traffic negatively impacts our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our platforms through performance marketing on general search platforms, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We purchase online traffic from a number of other sources, including some operated by our competitors, in the form of pay-per-click arrangements that can be terminated with little or no notice. If one or more of such arrangements is terminated, our business, market share, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on various third-party distribution channels (i.e., marketing affiliates) to distribute accommodation, rental car, and airline ticket reservations. Should one or more of such third parties cease distribution of reservations made through us, or suffer deterioration in its search or meta-search ranking, due to changes in search or meta-search algorithms or otherwise, our business, market share, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Consumer adoption and use of mobile devices creates challenges and may enable device companies such as Google and Apple to compete directly with us. Widespread adoption of mobile devices, such as the iPhone and Android-enabled smartphones, coupled with the web browsing functionality and development of thousands of apps available on these devices, continues to drive substantial online traffic and commerce to mobile platforms. We have experienced a significant shift of business, both direct and indirect, to mobile platforms. The revenues earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay, have lower ADRs, and are not made as far in advance. To the extent mobile devices or platforms enable users to block advertising content, our advertising revenue and our ability to market our brands and acquire new consumers may also be negatively affected. Given the device sizes and technical limitations of smartphones, mobile consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps from multiple companies providing a similar service and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their mobile travel and restaurant research and reservation activity. As a result, the consumer experience with mobile apps as well as brand recognition and loyalty continue to be increasingly important. Our mobile offerings have received generally strong reviews and an increasing percentage of our room nights are booked on mobile devices. We believe that mobile bookings are necessary to maintain and grow our business as consumers increasingly turn to mobile devices instead of a personal computer. As a result, it is increasingly important for us to develop and maintain effective mobile platforms to provide consumers with an appealing, easy-to-use mobile experience and that the features of our mobile platforms are competitive with our peers. If we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly, and differentiated mobile offerings, and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our mobile offerings are not used by consumers, we could lose market share and our business, future growth, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 18 Google and Apple each have substantial market share in the smartphone markets and provide the leading operating systems for smartphones. As a result, they could leverage their operating systems to give a competitive advantage to their services that overlap with ours. We rely heavily on Google and Apples app stores to provide our mobile application to users, and each of Google and Apple have more experience developing mobile apps and access to greater resources than us. To the extent Google or Apple use their mobile operating systems, app distribution channels, mobile payment systems, or search or other marketplace services to favor their services that overlap with ours, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Impairments of goodwill, long-term investments, and long-lived assets, increases in provisions for expected credit losses on receivables from and cash advances made to our travel service provider and restaurant partners, and increases in cash outlays to refund consumers for prepaid reservations have a negative impact on our results of operations. We have recorded and may in the future record impairments of goodwill, long-term investments, or long-lived assets. Future events and changing market conditions, like significant adverse changes in the market valuations of companies in the travel and technology industries, may lead us to re-evaluate the assumptions to estimate the fair value of our goodwill, long-term investments, and long-lived assets, including assumptions related to the recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and performance following the pandemic, which may result in the need to recognize goodwill, investment, and asset impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any significant increase in our provision for expected credit losses and any significant increase in cash outlays to refund consumers, for instance relating to a downturn in the global travel industry affecting our travel service provider and restaurant partners and marketing affiliates, could have a corresponding adverse effect on our results of operations and related cash flows. We could experience a high level of cancellations of existing reservations which could result in higher than normal cash outlays to refund consumers for prepaid reservations. In some instances, where we had agreed to provide free cancellations to consumers for non-refundable reservations, we did not estimate a recovery of prepayment already made to a travel service provider. In certain instances, we may offer cancellable room rates on behalf of a partner to provide flexibility to our consumers even if the partner has not provided a cancellable room rate, which could have a negative impact on our revenues if we are unable to facilitate booking from another customer. Investment in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. We have invested and in the future may invest in new business strategies and acquisitions of complementary businesses in furtherance of our mission to make it easier for everyone to experience the world. For example, we acquired Getaroom in December 2021 to enhance our business-to-business distribution capabilities for hotel partners and more effectively support our accommodations affiliate partners, and in November 2021 we entered into an agreement to acquire European-based flights booking provider Etraveli Group. Such endeavors may not be successful and may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including diversion of management's attention from current operations, greater than expected liabilities and expenses, increased regulatory scrutiny, inadequate return on capital, new risks with which we are not familiar, legal and compliance obligations that previously did not apply to us, integration risks, and difficulties and unidentified issues not discovered in our investigations and evaluations of those strategies and acquisitions. Further, we may issue shares of our common stock in these transactions, which could result in dilution to our stockholders. As a result, entering new businesses involves risks and costs that could, if realized, have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, profit margins, cash flows or financial condition, as well as on our ability to achieve the expected benefits of any such investments or acquisitions. We may decide to make minority investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have limited or no management or operational control. The controlling person in such a case may have business interests, strategies, or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and decisions of the company or venture in which we invested may result in harm to our reputation or business or adversely affect the value of our investment. 19 We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses or combine internal businesses. The integration of acquired businesses requires significant time and resources, and we may not manage these processes successfully. In addition to acquired businesses, we have integrated certain of our businesses that had been managed independently, integrated certain functions across our businesses, and restructured or ceased operating certain assets or businesses, and we may do so in the future, including through divestitures. Integrations are complex, often involve additional or unexpected costs, and create a variety of issues and risks, including: disruption or harm to the businesses involved, or to our other businesses, including as a result of the need for management to spend time and attention on the integration; difficulty combining different company cultures, systems, reporting structures, titles, job descriptions, and compensation schemes, or implementing and maintaining effective controls, procedures, and policies; problems retaining key personnel, in particular at the acquired or integrated company; and loss of travel service providers, restaurants, or partners of the acquired business. We may not successfully integrate companies or achieve the strategic, financial, or operating objectives of an acquisition or integration, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or value of our acquisitions. We face risks related to our operational and technological infrastructures. Historically, our brands operated on a largely independent basis and many of them focused on particular services or geographies. As we look to develop our Connected Trip vision and pursue our other strategic objectives, we continue to optimize collaboration among our brands. As we manage this shift, in addition to managing any changes in our workforce, we may find it difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture at the brand companies and throughout the organization as a whole. In addition, any future expansion or shift increases the complexity of our business and places additional strain on our management, operations, technical performance, financial resources, and administrative, legal, tax, internal control, and financial reporting functions. Our current and planned employees and outsourced resources, systems, procedures, and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage growth and increased complexity, or could result in actual or perceived disruption of our service or customer support, especially as we have employees and outsourced resources in multiple geographic locations around the world and increase the number and variety of our products and payment systems. In addition, we are in the early stages of a multi-year phased migration to integrate and upgrade certain cross-brand global systems and processes. The implementation of new information technology, payment, enterprise resource planning, or other systems could be disruptive and/or costly or we may experience difficulty successfully integrating new systems into existing systems or migrating to new systems from existing systems, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any failure to implement or adapt to new technologies in a timely manner or at all could adversely affect our ability to compete, increase our consumer acquisition costs or otherwise adversely affect our business, brand, market share, and results of operations. Information Security, Cybersecurity, and Data Privacy Risks Our processing, storage, use, and disclosure of personal data exposes us to risks of internal or external security breaches and could give rise to liabilities and/or damage our reputation. We are an innovative technology company dependent on sophisticated software applications and computing infrastructure. If threat actors such as cyber-criminals, hackers, and state-sponsored organizations are able to circumvent our security controls and capabilities, including as a result of our own acts or omissions, it could result in a compromise or breach of consumer or employee data. In e-commerce, data security is essential to maintaining consumer and partner confidence in our services and the uninterrupted availability of our web and mobile platforms is essential for our business. Consumers who use certain of our services provide us with their personal identity data and payment information, which in turn attracts attention from threat actors and fraudsters. Cyberattacks are increasing in frequency and sophistication and are constantly evolving. We may not be able to defend against a persistent, sophisticated cyberattack from a determined adversary. In addition, our security policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with the continuous innovation of our offerings. 20 Vulnerabilities in our consumer and partner account security and workflow practices could and have resulted in unauthorized access to confidential data. These risks are likely to increase as we expand our offerings, integrate our products and services including as we incorporate AI and machine learning, and store and process more data, including personal information and payment data. The disclosure of non-public Company-sensitive information by our workforce or other parties, through external media channels such as social media, could lead to information loss, reputational harm, or loss of a competitive advantage. We expend significant resources to protect against security breaches, and regularly increase our security-related expenditures to maintain or increase our systems' security. We have experienced and responded to cyberattacks, which we believe have not had a material impact on the integrity of our systems or the security of data, including personal information maintained by us. Security breaches could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions, or cause consumers to lose confidence in our security and choose to use the services of our competitors, any of which would have an adverse effect on our brands, market share, results of operations, and financial condition. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors -" Cyberattacks and system vulnerabilities could lead to sustained service outages, data loss, reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position ." Additionally, our consumers' personal data could be affected by security breaches at third parties upon which we rely, such as travel service providers, connectivity partners, payroll providers, health plan providers, payment processors, data exchange services (for example, XML Providers), or GDSs. See below Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " Our business relies on a global supply chain of third party services providers and we are exposed to risks because we rely on the resilience, security, and legal compliance of their products and services ." Our efforts to protect information from unauthorized access may also result in the rejection of legitimate attempts to book reservations through our services, which could result in lost business. In the operation of our business, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data and payment information. This data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. The European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (the "GDPR") imposes significant compliance obligations and costs on us. Under the GDPR, violations could result in fines of up to 20 million Euros or up to 4% of the annual global revenues of the infringer, whichever is greater. Several data protection authorities have imposed significant fines on companies of various sizes across industry sectors for violations of the GDPR. The California Consumer Privacy Act (the "CCPA"), which became operative in January 2020, and the California Privacy Rights Act, which became operative in January 2023, each impose new privacy requirements and rights for consumers in California and has resulted and will continue to result in additional complexity and costs related to compliance. Many other states in the United States and jurisdictions globally have adopted or may adopt similar data protection regulations. These regulations are typically intended to protect the security of personal data that is collected, processed, and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction as well as to give individuals greater rights and/or control over how their data is processed. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, including employee information. These laws and their interpretations continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Furthermore, enforcement actions often cause interpretation of these new laws to evolve, which could require changing our initial responses to these laws. For example, the invalidation of the EU-US Privacy Shield in 2020 altered one of the acceptable approaches which many companies relied upon to ensure compliant data transfers between the European Union and the United States. Additionally, some of these regulations, such as the CCPA, give consumers a private right of action against companies for violations of these rules. While we have invested and continue to invest significant resources to comply with the GDPR, CCPA, and other privacy regulations, many of these regulations (such as the Personal Information Protection Law in the People's Republic of China) are new, complex, and subject to interpretation. Non-compliance with these laws could result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation, significant penalties, or other legal liability. If legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, our results of operations, financial condition, or competitive position could be adversely affected. Cyberattacks and system vulnerabilities could lead to sustained service outages, data loss, reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position. If our systems cannot cope with the level of demand required to service our consumers and accommodations, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times, decreased customer service and customer satisfaction, and delays in the introduction of new services. As an online business, we are dependent on the internet and maintaining connectivity between ourselves and consumers, sources of internet traffic, such as Google, and our travel service providers and restaurants. As consumers increasingly turn to mobile and other smart devices, we also depend on consumers' access to the internet through mobile carriers and their systems. Disruptions in internet access, especially if widespread or prolonged, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. While we maintain redundant systems and hosting services, it is possible that we could experience an interruption in our business, and we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for all losses that may occur. 21 We have computer hardware for operating our services located in hosting facilities around the world. We do not have a comprehensive disaster recovery plan in every geographic region in which we conduct business, and these systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, misconduct, or catastrophic events. In the event of any disruption of service at such facilities or the failure by such facilities to provide our required data communications capacity, we may not be able to switch to back-up systems immediately and it could result in lengthy interruptions or delays in our services. In addition to placing increased burdens on our engineering staff, these outages could create a significant amount of consumer questions and complaints that need to be addressed by customer support. Any system failure that causes an interruption or delay in service could impair our reputation, damage our brands, increase customer service costs, or result in lost business, any of which could adversely effect our business and results of operations. We have taken and continue to take steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems. These steps are expensive, may reduce our margins, and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. We have experienced targeted and organized malware, phishing, and account takeover attacks, and may in the future experience these and other forms of attack such as ransomware, SQL injection (where a third party attempts to insert malicious code into our software through data entry fields in our websites in order to gain control of the system), and attempts to use our websites as a platform to launch a denial-of-service attack on another party. Our existing security measures may not be successful in preventing attacks on our systems. For instance, from time to time, we have experienced denial-of-service type attacks on our systems that have made portions of our websites slow or unavailable for periods of time. Our existing IT business continuity and disaster recovery practices are less effective against certain types of attacks such as ransomware, which could result in our services being unavailable for an extended period of time, nullify our data, expose our payment card and personal data, or expose us to an extortion attempt. Reductions in the availability and response time of our online services could cause loss of substantial business volumes during the occurrence of any such attack on our systems and measures we may take to divert suspect traffic in the event of such an attack could result in the diversion of bona fide customers. These issues are more difficult to manage during any expansion of the number of places where we operate and the variety of services we offer, and as the tools and techniques used in such attacks become more advanced. We use sophisticated technology to identify cybersecurity threats; however, a cyberattack may go undetected for a period of time resulting in harm to our computer systems and the loss of data. This could result in financial penalties being imposed by the regulators and reputational harm. Our insurance policies have coverage limits and may not be adequate to reimburse us for all losses caused by security breaches. Successful attacks could result in significant interruptions in our operations, severe damage to our information technology infrastructure, negative publicity, damage our reputation, and prevent consumers from using our services during the attack, any of which could cause consumers to use the services of our competitors, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brands, our market share, business, and results of operations. We use both internally-developed systems and third-party systems to operate our services, including transaction processing, order management, and financial and accounting systems. If the number of consumers using our services increases substantially, or if critical third-party systems stop operating as designed, we may need to significantly expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems, financial and accounting systems, or other infrastructure. We may not be able to upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such conditions in a timely manner, and, depending on the systems affected, our transactional, financial, and accounting systems could be impacted for a meaningful amount of time before upgrade, expansion, or repair. Many of our processes and systems, including those related to processing and recording revenue, are highly automated and involve multiple inputs from various IT systems, which can mitigate the risk of human error but which can also make testing, troubleshooting, and auditing more difficult. As a result, it may be difficult to quickly detect and correct errors embedded in these processes or systems. Our business relies on a global supply chain of third party services providers and we are exposed to risks because we rely on the resilience, security, and legal compliance of their products and services. We rely on certain third-party computer systems and third-party service providers, including GDSs and computerized central reservation systems of the accommodation, rental car, and airline industries in connection with providing some of our services. Any damage to, breach of or interruption in these third-party services and systems or deterioration in their performance could prevent us from booking related accommodation, rental car, and airline reservations and have a material adverse effect on our business, brands, and results of operations. Third party business partners, service providers, and consultants may be given access to our computer networks. A cyberattack against one of these third parties that compromises their credentials may result in unauthorized access to our systems and data, resulting in a cyberattack against us. Furthermore, our agreements with some third-party service providers are terminable upon short notice and often do not provide recourse for service interruptions. In the event our arrangement with any such third party is terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative source of systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms and, as a result, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 22 Consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy on the internet, and any publicized privacy and security problems could negatively affect consumers' willingness to provide private information or effect online commercial transactions generally, including through our services. Some of our business is conducted with third-party marketing affiliates, which may generate travel reservations through our infrastructure or through other systems. A security breach at any third-party that we conduct business with, such as the security breach experienced by Intercontinental Hotels Group Plc. in September 2022, could be perceived by consumers as a security breach of our systems and could result in negative publicity, subject us to notification requirements, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions, even if we had no direct involvement in the breach. In addition, such third parties may not comply with applicable disclosure requirements or with parameters within which we permit them to process data, which could expose us to liability. We depend upon various third parties to process payments, including credit cards, for our merchant transactions around the world. In addition, we rely on third parties to provide credit card numbers which we use as a payment mechanism for merchant transactions. If any such third party were wholly or partially compromised or ceased or suspended operations, our cash flows could be disrupted or we may not be able to generate merchant transactions (and related revenues) for a period of time and this could have a negative effect on our business, reputation, and results of operations and, in certain cases of the insolvency of such a partner, could result in additional payments by us and loss of the total transaction value. Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, and Reputational Risks We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As an international business providing reservation and marketing services around the world, we are subject to income taxes and non-income-based taxes. Although we believe that our tax filing positions are reasonable and comply with applicable law, we regularly review our tax filing positions, especially in light of tax law or business practice changes, and we may change our positions or determine that previous positions should be amended, either of which could result in additional tax liabilities. The final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. To date, we have been audited in many taxing jurisdictions. If current or future audits find that additional taxes are due, we may be subject to incremental tax liabilities, possibly including interest and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. See Notes 15 and 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding certain tax matters and tax contingencies. In general, governments are increasingly focused on ways to increase tax revenues, which has contributed to an increase in audit activity, more aggressive positions taken by tax authorities, more time and difficulty to resolve any audits or disputes and an increase in new tax legislation. Any such additional taxes or other assessments may be in excess of our current tax provisions or may require us to modify our business practices in order to reduce our exposure to additional taxes going forward, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act") was enacted into law in the United States. The Tax Act introduced a tax on 50% of global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI"), which is income determined to be in excess of a specified routine rate of return on qualifying business assets. The Tax Act further introduced a base erosion and anti-abuse tax ("BEAT") aimed at preventing the erosion of the U.S. tax base and a new tax deduction with respect to certain foreign-derived intangible income. If we are unable to operate our business so that BEAT does not impact us, our effective tax rate, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. The interpretation and implementation of the Tax Act and regulations, rules, or guidance that have been or may be adopted under, or result from, the Tax Act have had and could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. In August 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act was enacted into law in the United States. The key tax provisions applicable to us are a 15% corporate minimum tax on book income and a 1% excise tax on stock repurchases, both of which are effective January 1, 2023. The interpretation and implementation of these provisions could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, increases in the U.S. corporate income tax rate, increasing the percentage of GILTI subject to tax in the United States, or other changes included in any adopted U.S. federal tax legislation could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Certain countries have taken steps to unilaterally introduce a digital services tax to address the issue of multinational businesses carrying on business in their jurisdiction without a physical presence and therefore generally not being subject to income tax in those jurisdictions. These digital services taxes are calculated as a percentage of revenue rather than income or profits. The interpretation and implementation of the various digital services taxes (especially if there is inconsistency in the application of these taxes across tax jurisdictions) could have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Further, digital services taxes may not apply to our competitors such as hotel chains and smaller OTCs, which could harm our business and competitive position. 23 Additionally, there have been significant changes made and proposed to international tax laws that increase the complexity, burden, and cost of tax compliance. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD") has been working on the "base erosion and profit shifting" ("BEPS") project to ensure international tax standards keep pace with changes in global business practices. This project could change various aspects of the existing rules under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. In 2021, more than 130 countries agreed to a new OECD framework on BEPS that, among other provisions, includes proposed changes to how the right to tax income would be allocated among countries and imposes a 15% global minimum tax. The OECD recently issued additional commentary related to the 15% minimum tax, including the intention that provisions be incorporated into law with an effective date of January 1, 2024. The rules for the calculation of the 15% minimum tax are complex and additional guidance continues to be issued by the OECD. Until member countries enact legislation implementing the 15% minimum tax, it is not certain how it will impact us. Due to the large scale of our business activities outside of the United States, any changes in U.S. or international taxation of our activities, such as new definitions of permanent establishment, new nexus and profit allocation rules, or the combined effect of tax laws in multiple jurisdictions, may increase our worldwide effective tax rate, increase the complexity and costs associated with tax compliance, and adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. We are also subject to other non-income-based taxes, such as value-added, payroll, sales, use, excise, net worth, property, hotel occupancy, and goods and services taxes. We refer generally to taxes on travel transactions (e.g., value-added taxes, sales taxes, excise taxes, hotel occupancy taxes, etc.) as "travel transaction taxes." From time to time, we are under audit or investigation by tax authorities or involved in legal proceedings related to these non-income-based taxes or we may revise or amend our tax positions, which may result in additional non-income-based tax liabilities. A number of jurisdictions in the United States have initiated lawsuits or other proceedings against OTCs, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of certain travel transaction taxes (such as hotel occupancy taxes) that could include historical taxes that are claimed to be owed, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney's fees and costs. Additional jurisdictions may assert that we are subject to travel transaction taxes and could seek to collect such taxes, either retroactively, prospectively or both. We continue to defend against these lawsuits and, where appropriate, intend to continue to assert that we should not be subject to such taxes. Although we believe we do not owe the taxes claimed in these lawsuits, litigation is uncertain, and if there was an adverse outcome in this litigation, or any similar litigation in other jurisdictions, it could result in liabilities for past and/or future bookings, and it could have an adverse effect on our business, profit margins, and results of operations. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation, audit proceedings, or other regulatory inquiries. Jurisdictions could also seek to amend their tax statutes in order to collect travel transaction taxes from us on a prospective basis. Additionally, a number of jurisdictions in the United States and other countries have adopted or may adopt laws that require us to collect and remit travel transaction taxes on behalf of travel service providers, which in some instances may negatively impact our revenue and may be difficult to implement. Adverse tax decisions or new laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, margins, cash flows and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain our "Innovation Box Tax" benefit. The Netherlands corporate income tax law provides that income generated from qualifying innovative activities is taxed at the rate of 9% beginning in January 2021 and 7% prior to 2021 ("Innovation Box Tax") rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. Effective January 1, 2022, the Netherlands corporate income tax rate increased from 25% to 25.8%. A portion of Booking.com's earnings historically has qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment. In order to be eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment, Booking.com must, among other things, apply for and obtain a research and development ("R&D") certificate from a Dutch governmental agency every six months confirming that the activities that Booking.com intends to be engaged in over the subsequent six-month period are "innovative." The R&D certificate is current but should Booking.com fail to secure such a certificate in any future period - for example, because the governmental agency does not view Booking.com's new or anticipated activities as innovative - or should this agency determine that the activities performed in a prior period were not performed as contemplated or did not comply with the agency's requirements, Booking.com may lose its certificate and, as a result, the Innovation Box Tax benefit may be reduced or eliminated. Booking.com intends to apply for continued Innovation Box Tax treatment for future periods. However, Booking.com's application may not be accepted, or, if accepted, the amount of qualifying earnings may be reduced. 24 The loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit (or any material portion thereof), whether due to a change in tax law or a determination by the Dutch government that Booking.com's activities no longer qualify, could substantially increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows in the future. Our business is subject to various competition/anti-trust, consumer protection, and online commerce laws, rules, and regulations around the world, and as the size of our business grows, scrutiny of our business by legislators and regulators in these areas may intensify. We, the travel industry, and the technology industry generally are subject to competition and consumer protection laws and regulations around the world. These laws and regulations evolve and change, and their interpretation, application, and enforcement can also change, be unpredictable, or be affected by changing political or social pressures. As we expand our business into new areas, including our evolution towards the Connected Trip, we may become subject to additional laws and regulations. At times, online travel platforms, including us, have been the subject of investigations or inquiries by various national competition authorities ("NCAs") or other governmental authorities. For example, we have been and continue to be involved in investigations related to whether Booking.com's contractual parity arrangements with accommodation providers, sometimes also referred to as "most favored nation" or "MFN" provisions, are anti-competitive because they require accommodation providers to provide Booking.com with room rates, conditions, and availability that are at least as favorable as those offered to other OTCs or through the accommodation provider's website. To resolve and close certain of the investigations, we have from time to time made commitments to the investigating authorities regarding future business practices or activities, such as agreeing to narrow the scope of our parity arrangements. Additionally, these types of investigations can result and have resulted in the assessment of fines. We have also been involved in investigations or inquiries involving consumer protection matters and we have previously made certain voluntary commitments to consumer authorities to resolve investigations or inquiries that have included showing prices inclusive of all mandatory taxes and charges, providing information about the effect of money earned on search result rankings on or before the search results page, and making certain adjustments to how discounts and statements concerning popularity or availability are shown to consumers. To the extent that these or any other investigations or inquiries result in additional commitments, fines, damages, or other remedies, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. As markets evolve and NCAs or other governmental authorities continue to monitor our industry, investigations of the industry generally or of us specifically could occur and have occurred. While we believe that we are complying with our commitments, investigating authorities or third parties may determine that we are not complying with the commitments we have made and decide to pursue legal action to compel compliance or seek other remedies. Further, in September 2017 the Swiss Price Surveillance Office opened an investigation into the level of commissions of Booking.com in Switzerland and the investigation is ongoing. If there is an adverse outcome and Booking.com is unsuccessful in any appeal, Booking.com could be required to reduce its commissions in Switzerland. We are cooperating with regulators where applicable, but we are unable to predict what, if any, effect any investigations or resolutions thereof, including the effect of any commitments we might make, will have on our business, industry practices, or online commerce more generally. To the extent that regulatory authorities impose fines on us or require changes to our business practices or to those currently common to the industry, our business, competitive position, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Negative publicity regarding competition and/or consumer law investigations could adversely affect our brands and therefore our business, market share, and results of operations. Competition and consumer law-related investigations, legislation, or issues have and could in the future result in private litigation. Another area of regulatory inquiry involves contractual search term bidding restrictions where one contracting party agrees not to bid on certain key search terms related to the other party (e.g., such other partys name). In some of our contracts, we or the other party have agreed to bidding restrictions. If bidding restrictions are held to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable or if we remove them from all of our contracts, it could negatively impact our performance marketing efficiency, business, and results of operations. There is significant legislative and public focus on the technology industry, especially as technology companies become larger. In some instances, countries have passed legislation that goes further to restrict business activities than actions taken by NCAs or other regulatory authorities. France, Italy, Belgium, Portugal, and Austria have passed legislation prohibiting parity contract clauses in their entirety and, last year, a German court ruled that our narrow parity clauses are not permitted. Additionally, the EU's Platform to Business Regulation regulates the relationship between online platforms such as Booking.com and European business users of online platforms. The Digital Markets Act ("DMA") and Digital Services Act ("DSA") give regulators in the EU more instruments to investigate and regulate digital businesses and impose new rules and 25 requirements on platforms designated as "gatekeepers" under the DMA and online platforms more generally, with separate rules for "Very Large Online Platforms" ("VLOPs") under the DSA. If the European Commission determines that we are a gatekeeper or one of our brands is a VLOP, we will be subject to additional rules and regulations that may not be applicable to our competitors. For example, the DMA imposes new restrictions and requirements, including in areas such as parity arrangements and the usage of personal data across services, which could adversely impact our business. Designated gatekeepers will also need to establish an independent compliance function to monitor compliance with the DMA. An initial designation as a gatekeeper could take place later this year, and key requirements are expected to become enforceable against designated gatekeepers in early 2024. The requirements for gatekeepers are also subject to further interpretation and regulatory engagement, and such designation may be subject to a review process. Under the DSA, we may be required to collect more information from partners, which could disincentivize certain partners from using our services. Further, if one of our brands is designated a VLOP, it would be subject to additional scrutiny, obligations, and costs, such as payment of an annual supervisory fee, requirements to carry out annual risk assessments and independent audits, and needing to establish an independent compliance function. The DMA and DSA each have significant penalties for non-compliance. The European Commission will designate VLOPs based on a platform's number of EU "monthly active recipients" ("MARs"). The European Commission requires counting users to whom information was displayed, even if a user does not make a transaction on the platform. The assessment of MARs and any other published information by our brands represents an estimate based on the data available to us and limited guidance, and is subject to limitations. The estimate is published solely as a requirement under the DSA, may be inaccurate, and should not be used for any other purpose. For information we consider relevant to the performance of our business, see Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Additionally, in July 2021 President Biden of the United States signed an executive order aimed at restricting anticompetitive practices, including those within the technology industry. Any rules or regulations that result from this executive order, as well as any other new laws and regulations and changing public perception relating to the technology industry could impact our services, require us to change our business practices, or otherwise cause us to incur additional operating costs to comply with or address these developments. Further, as market conditions change as a result of investigations, litigation, legislation, or political or social pressure, we may decide to voluntarily modify our business practices beyond what is required, the full effects of which may not be known when making the decision, but which could harm our competitive position and adversely affect our business and results of operations. With additional attention on the size of travel or technology companies generally, our size and market share may negatively affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval of proposed acquisitions, our ability to expand into complementary businesses or our latitude in dealing with travel service providers (such as by limiting our ability to provide discounts, rebates, or incentives or to exercise contractual rights), any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or ability to grow and compete. Regulatory and legal requirements and uncertainties could subject us to business constraints, increased compliance costs and complexities, or otherwise harm our business. Our ability to provide our services and any future services is and will continue to be affected by legal regulations of national and local governments and regulatory authorities, many of which are evolving and subject to the possibility of new or revised interpretations. For example, we currently offer optional rental car-related insurance products to customers protecting them against accidental damage to their rental vehicles, optional room and flight cancellation insurance products, and we intend to offer additional trip-related insurance products in the future, which subjects us to certain insurance distribution regulations and related increased compliance costs and complexities, any of which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Laws in some countries relating to data localization, registration as a travel agent, and other local requirements could, if applicable to us, adversely affect our ability to conduct business in those countries. Any increase in the number or complexity of the laws and regulations applicable to us and our businesses could increase our compliance costs and burdens and negatively affect our business and results of operations. For example, in the European Union and the United Kingdom, the Package Travel Directive and other local laws governing the sale of travel services (the "Package Directive") sets out broad requirements such as local registration, certain mandatory financial guarantees, disclosure requirements, and other rules regulating the provision of single travel sales, travel packages, and linked travel arrangements. The Package Directive also creates additional liability for a provider of travel packages, which could be the OTC, for performance of the travel services within a packaged trip under certain circumstances. Some parts of our business are already subject to the broad scope of the Package Directive, and as our offerings continue to diversify and expand, we may become subject to additional requirements of the Package Directive. Compliance with this directive could be costly and complex or, as a result of these requirements, we could choose to limit offerings that would 26 otherwise be beneficial for the business, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or ability to grow and compete. Any changes to the Package Directive, including any changes to the scope of the travel services covered, increased levels of consumer protections, or changes to the requirements of financial guarantees could be costly or complex to comply with and may also adversely affect our business, results of operations, or ability to grow and compete in the future. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by judicial or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause the development of the affected markets to become impractical and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, in connection with a lawsuit begun in 2015 by the Association of Turkish Travel Agencies, a Turkish court ordered in 2019 that Booking.com must meet certain registration requirements in order to offer Turkish hotels and accommodations to Turkish residents. If Booking.com does not successfully appeal this decision or meet the Turkish registration requirements, Booking.com will be unable to resume offering Turkish hotels and accommodations to Turkish residents, which would continue to negatively impact our results of operations. There can be no assurance that there will not be an adverse outcome to any such litigation or that such an outcome would not result in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Compliance with the laws and regulations of multiple jurisdictions increases our cost of doing business. Examples of these laws and regulations, which sometimes conflict, include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, the DSA and DMA, and local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials or third parties, data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, non-discrimination, human rights or anti-human trafficking laws and regulations, such as the U.K. Modern Slavery Act 2015, tax laws, anti-trust or competition laws, U.S., E.U., or U.N. sanctioned country or sanctioned persons mandates, and consumer protection laws. Violations of these laws and regulations have resulted in the past and could result in the future in fines, penalties, and/or criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees and/or prohibitions on how or where we conduct business. Any such violations could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could materially damage our reputation, our brands, our global expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees and business partners, our business, and our operating results. Even if we comply with these laws and regulations, doing business in certain jurisdictions or violations of these laws and regulations by the parties with whom we conduct business could harm our reputation and brands, which could adversely affect our results of operations or stock price. In addition, these restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to our competitors unless they are also subject to comparable restrictions. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. Additionally, our employees in certain countries in Europe are represented by works councils and/or trade unions. We are required to consult with works councils on certain matters such as restructurings, acquisitions and divestitures, and other matters that could impact our labor force. Consultations may not be completed on terms satisfactory to us and, as a result, could result in increases in our cost of labor, diversion of management's attention away from operating our business, delays in certain initiatives, and expose us to claims and litigation. We are also subject to a variety of other regulatory, legal, and public policy risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to: additional complexity to comply with regulations in multiple jurisdictions, as well as overlapping or inconsistent legal regimes, in particular with respect to tax, labor, consumer protection, digital content, advertising, promotions, privacy, and competition laws; difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and changes in social or political conditions or policies relating to a wide range of sustainability topics. We have made efforts and expect to make further efforts to integrate access to travel services across our various brands. These changes add complexity to legal and tax compliance and our internal controls, and our size and operating history may increase the likelihood that we will be subject to regulatory scrutiny or audits by tax authorities in various jurisdictions. In addition, by virtue of Booking.com's size and presence in the Netherlands, it is required to have a supervisory board to oversee the strategy and operations of Booking.com. While the existence of the supervisory board has not had a material impact on our operations, under certain circumstances, this governance structure could require Booking.com to obtain supervisory board approval in order to take certain actions, which could result in delays or other unanticipated strategic or operational challenges. 27 There are various risks associated with the facilitation of payments from consumers, including risks related to fraud, compliance with evolving rules and regulations, and reliance on third parties. Our results have been and will likely continue to be negatively impacted by consumer purchases made using fraudulent payment cards (such as credit, debit, prepaid, or similar cards), claims the consumer did not authorize the purchase, or consumers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in their bank accounts to satisfy payments. We may be held liable for accepting fraudulent payment cards (such as stolen or cloned cards) on our platforms or in connection with other fraudulent transactions on our platforms, as well as other payment disputes with consumers. Accordingly, we calculate and record an allowance for the resulting chargebacks. We must also continually implement and evolve measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, in particular as these methods become increasingly sophisticated. If we are unable to successfully combat the use of fraudulent payment cards on our platforms, our business, profit margins, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We are processing more of our transactions on a merchant basis where we facilitate payments from travelers through the use of payment cards and other payment methods (such as PayPal, Alipay, Paytm, and WeChat Pay). While processing transactions on a merchant basis allows us to process transactions for properties that do not otherwise accept payment cards and to increase our ability to offer a variety of payment methods and flexible transaction terms to consumers, we incur additional payment processing costs (which are typically higher for foreign currency transactions) and other costs related to these transactions, such as costs related to fraudulent payments and transactions and fraud detection. As we expand our payments services to consumers and business partners, in addition to the revenues from these transactions, we may experience a significant increase in these costs, and our results of operations and profit margins could be materially adversely affected, in particular if we experience a significant increase in non-variable costs related to fraudulent payments and transactions. As a greater percentage of our transactions involve us processing payments, our global systems and processes must be managed on a larger scale, which adds complexity, administrative burdens and costs, and increases the demands on our systems and controls, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, as our payment processing activities continue to develop, we expect to be subject to additional regulations, including financial services regulations, which we expect to result in increased compliance costs and complexities, including those associated with the implementation of new or advanced internal controls, including, by way of example, those arising from the E.U.s Payment Services Directive 2 and similar legislation. The implementation of these processes may result in increased compliance costs and administrative burdens. Regulators (or we) may determine, and in some cases are likely to determine, that certain aspects of our business are subject to laws that govern payments activities, such as money transmission and online payments processing, which could require us to obtain licenses to continue to operate in certain jurisdictions or result in modification of our business plans. Regulations relating to operational resilience, banking, privacy, and security of our processes could also apply to us. Further, our payments systems are susceptible to illegal and improper uses, including money laundering, terrorist financing, fraudulent sales of goods or services, and transactions by or with sanctioned parties. We have invested and will need to continue to invest substantial resources to comply with applicable laws and regulations, and failure to maintain compliance could lead to fines or require us to modify or interrupt our business practices, plans, or operations, any of which could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and profit margins. We are also subject to payment card association rules and obligations under our contracts with the card schemes and our payment card processors, and indirectly to the rules of payment systems in respect of credit (i.e., account to account) transfers. The rules of the card schemes and payment systems are updated in cycles, and we may need to adjust our systems and/or processes to comply with any updated obligations. Card association rules include the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (the "Standard"). Under the Standard and these association rules and obligations, if information is compromised, we could be liable to payment card issuers for associated expenses and penalties, and in some cases, we could be restricted in our ability to accept payment cards. Under certain circumstances in our agreements with the card schemes and in relation to the Standard, we are also subject to periodic audits, self-assessments, and other assessments of our compliance with the rules and obligations of the payment card associations and the Standard, which could result in additional expenses and administrative burdens. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if no consumer information is compromised, we could incur significant fines or experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs. Additionally, compliance with the Standard may not prevent all security incidents. If we are fined or required to pay additional processing fees or if our ability to accept payment cards is restricted in any way as a result of our failure to comply with these payment card industry rules, or otherwise, it could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and profit margins. We rely on banks, card schemes, and other payment processors to execute certain components of the payments process. For inbound payments, we pay these third parties interchange fees and other processing and gateway fees to help 28 facilitate payments from consumers to travel service providers. As a result, if we are unable to maintain our relationships with these third parties on favorable terms or if these fees are increased for any reason, our profit margin, business, and results of operations could be harmed. Additionally, if these third parties experience service disruptions or if they cease operations, consumers and travel service providers could have difficulty making or receiving payments, which could adversely impact our reputation, business, and results of operations. In addition, in the event that one of our major travel service providers voluntarily or involuntarily declares bankruptcy or otherwise ceases or limits operations, we could experience an increase in chargebacks from customers with travel reservations with such travel service provider and we could experience financial loss from certain prepayments made to such travel service provider if we are not able to recover the prepayment. We face risks relating to our environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") objectives, including climate related commitments we have made that require us to invest effort, resources, and management time, and failing to meet those objectives may adversely impact our reputation, employee retention, and willingness of customers and partners to do business with us. Investors, proxy advisory services, regulatory authorities, and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on our ESG practices. We have made climate related commitments to reduce our scope 1 & 2 emissions by 95% and our scope 3 emissions by 50% by the end of 2030, and to achieve net zero by 2040. Additionally, we committed to making it easier for our customers to find more sustainable trip options and we continue to work on enhancing related disclosure of goals, progress, and other ESG matters. Our ability to achieve ESG goals and initiatives is subject to risks including: (1) the availability and cost of limiting or offsetting our use of carbon-based energy sources and technologies, (2) evolving regulatory requirements affecting ESG standards and disclosures, (3) our ability to work with partners and providers that can meet our sustainability and other standards, (4) the availability of vendor or other third-party data, (5) the impact of our organic growth and acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or operations on our ESG goals, and (6) customers actual demand for ESG-oriented product offerings, which may be more expensive and less available than other options. We may need to invest significant effort, resources, and time to progress our ESG objectives, including our climate commitments, and external factors such as rapidly changing regulations, policies, and related interpretation may arise that may lead us to revise our timelines, commitments, or how we measure and report ESG data. For example, stricter regulation related to certification schemes applicable to sustainability labels under consideration in Europe could impact our Travel Sustainable program commitments. If our ESG practices do not meet evolving investor or other stakeholder expectations or regulatory requirements, then our reputation, ability to attract or retain employees, and our attractiveness as an investment or business partner could be negatively impacted. Similarly, our failure or perceived failure to pursue or fulfill our ESG-related objectives or to satisfy various reporting standards could expose us to government enforcement actions, private litigation, and actions by stockholders or stakeholders, and adversely impact our business, brands, or reputation. We face risks related to our intellectual property. We regard our intellectual property as important to our success, and we rely on intellectual property such as trademarks, copyrights, patents, and trade secrets to support our business as well as domain names or other intangible rights or property secured through purchase, licensing or other agreements with our employees, travel service providers, partners, and other parties. We have filed various applications for protection of certain aspects of our intellectual property in the United States and other jurisdictions, and we currently hold a number of issued patents in several jurisdictions. Further, in the future we may acquire additional intellectual property portfolios, which could require significant cash expenditures. However, we may choose not to register or otherwise protect some of our intellectual property and instead rely on trade secret or other means of protection. We have licensed in the past, and may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties, and these licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. We also have procured various intellectual property licenses from third parties. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our services are made available, particularly in certain jurisdictions in which we operate in which theft of intellectual property may be more prevalent. We may be required to expend significant time and resources to prevent infringement or to enforce our intellectual property rights. We believe that our intellectual property rights help to protect our business. We endeavor to defend our intellectual property rights diligently, but intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, and may divert managerial attention and resources from our business objectives. We may not be able to successfully defend our intellectual property rights 29 or our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to effectively protect our business, which could adversely affect our business, brands, and results of operations. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties will continue to assert intellectual property claims against us. Successful infringement claims against us could result in a significant monetary liability and/or prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business, or require us to change business practices or develop non-infringing alternatives, which could require significant effort and expense. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to obtain licenses to intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be expensive to procure, or possibly require us to cease using those rights altogether. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our use of "open source" software could adversely affect our ability to protect our proprietary software and subject us to possible litigation. We periodically use open source software in connection with our software development. From time to time, companies that use open source software have faced claims challenging the use of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. We could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software, or claiming non-compliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source licenses require users who distribute software containing open source to make available all or part of such software, which in some circumstances could include valuable proprietary code of the user. While we monitor our use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose our proprietary source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur, in part because open source license terms are often ambiguous. Any requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or pay damages for breach of contract could be harmful to our business, results of operations, or financial condition, and could help our competitors develop services that are similar to or better than ours. Regulations and policies impacting the way corporations use cookies and other online tracking technologies could negatively impact the way we do business. There are several privacy-driven initiatives that are changing the gathering and use of consumer data in the digital marketing ecosystem. These include phasing out the use of third-party cookies (and other tracking technologies) by browsers such as Safari and Google Chrome, restrictions on the use of the identifier for advertisers (such as the Apple "IDFA") by mobile device manufacturers, the adoption of regulations by many jurisdictions that govern the use of cookies, and Apple's iCloud+ Private Relay, which hides a user's IP address from websites that the user accesses in favor of other IP addresses provided by Apples partners. Google Chrome has announced that they will not permit the use of third-party cookies on Chrome by the end of 2024 and other browsers have already stopped their use. Apple has begun to require app developers to gain consent to use the IDFA and other identifiers with their own consent framework. Apples paying iCloud customers who update to current versions of iOS, iPadOS and OS X have access to iCloud+ Private Relay when using the Safari browser to hide such user's IP address from websites. These initiatives impact a small portion of our digital advertising practices. These changes are not unique to the digital advertising at our Company. While we believe that our primary performance marketing spend will not be directly impacted by these changes, we are prepared to utilize alternative digital marketing techniques for the portion of our marketing spend that could be impacted. In addition, many jurisdictions have adopted regulations governing the use of cookies. For example, in the EU, the ePrivacy Directive regulates the use of cookies and similar technologies, including limitations on the use of data and guidelines for enabling users to accept or reject cookies. Authorities may assert, and in some cases are likely to determine, that our collection, use, or management of customer and other data is inconsistent with laws and regulations, including laws that apply to cookies or similar technology, and there may be significant penalties for non-compliance. In the EU, the ePrivacy Directive is implemented in national laws as a result of which different interpretations and requirements apply on a country by country basis. EU regulators continue to issue guidance concerning the ePrivacy Directive's requirements regarding the use of cookies and similar technologies and may impose specific measures which could impact our use of such technologies. In addition, the ePrivacy Directive and national implementation laws impose additional limitations on the use of data across messaging products and include significant penalties for non-compliance. In the U.S., disclosure requirements and limitations may apply to the use of certain cookies and other online tracking technologies deemed to be sales of personal information under the CCPA or other state laws. If these regulations impair our ability to serve customers optimally or if we are less effective than our competitors in addressing these issues, our ability to improve performance on our platforms, business, market share, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, any failure to comply with evolving privacy regulations, guidance, and 30 interpretations could result in significant fines, government enforcement actions, private litigation, and harm to our business, results of operations, or reputation. Financial Risks Our liquidity, credit ratings, and ongoing access to capital could be materially and negatively affected by global financial conditions and events. Our continued access to sources of liquidity depends on multiple factors, including global economic conditions, the condition of global financial markets, the availability of sufficient amounts of financing, our ability to meet debt covenant requirements, our operating performance, and our credit ratings. Increased volatility in the financial and securities markets in recent years has generally made access to capital less certain. Further, if our credit ratings were to be downgraded or if financing sources were to ascribe higher risk to our rating levels, our industry or us, our access to capital, and the cost of any financing would be negatively impacted. We currently have $2.0 billion available under our revolving credit facility, which provides an additional potential source of liquidity. The revolving credit facility contains certain financial covenants, compliance with which is a condition to our ability to borrow thereunder. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the covenant requirements at any particular time, and our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility depends on such compliance. Further, the lenders have the right to require repayment of any amounts borrowed under the facility if we are not in compliance. There is no guarantee that additional debt financing will be available in the future to fund our obligations, or that it will be available on commercially reasonable terms, in which case we may need to seek other sources of funding. In addition, the terms of future debt agreements could include more restrictive covenants, which could restrict our business operations. See Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information on our liquidity and capital resources. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We conduct a substantial majority of our business outside the United States but we report our results in U.S. Dollars. As a result, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates as the financial results of our businesses outside of the U.S. are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. When the U.S. Dollar strengthens against other currencies in which we transact, our foreign-currency-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses, and net income are lower as expressed in U.S. Dollars. When the U.S. Dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact, our foreign-currency-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses, and net income are higher as expressed in U.S. Dollars. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in gains and losses that are reflected in our financial results. Recent years have seen volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the British Pound Sterling, the U.S. Dollar, and other currencies. Significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can affect consumer travel behavior. Consumers traveling from a country whose currency has weakened against other currencies may book lower ADR accommodations, choose to shorten or cancel their international travel plans or choose to travel domestically rather than internationally, any of which could adversely affect our gross bookings, revenues, and results of operations. Volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and its impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, make it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn makes it more difficult to manage our business and forecast our financial and operational performance. Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: financial or operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors or any publicly-disclosed estimates; quarterly variations in our financial or operating results; changes in expectations as to our future financial or operating performance; 31 worldwide economic conditions in general and in Europe in particular; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro; the effects of inflation; changes in interest rates; occurrence of a significant security breach; changes in our capital structure; changes in market valuations of other internet or online service companies; announcements of significant business or operational changes by us or our competitors; loss of a major travel service provider participant, such as a hotel chain, rental car company, or airline, from our services; changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; lack of success in expanding our business; business interruptions, such as may result from catastrophes or other events; announcements by third parties of significant claims or initiation of litigation proceedings against us or adverse developments in pending proceedings; additions or departures of key personnel; and trading volume fluctuations or other market volatility. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, including through the conversion of our convertible notes, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by introducing a large number of sellers or short sellers to the market. Given the volatility that exists for our shares, such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made or may make our stock attractive to momentum, hedge, or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. The trading prices of technology company stocks in general, including ours, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. To the extent that the public's perception of the prospects of technology or e-commerce or travel companies is negative, our stock price could decline, regardless of our results. Other broad market and industry factors, such as market fluctuations or political and economic conditions, may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Negative market conditions could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or the value of our stock for purposes of acquiring other companies or businesses. In the past, we have been a defendant in securities class action litigation. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. To the extent our stock price declines or is volatile, we may in the future be the target of additional litigation. This additional litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We face increased risks if the level of our debt increases. We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness and we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including through public or private offerings of debt securities. Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have significant consequences, which may be amplified if our cash flow and earnings decrease, and which could include: 32 requiring the dedication of a portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, meeting our operating expenses, share repurchases, and acquisitions; increased vulnerability to downturns in our business, competitive pressures, and adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions; decreased or lost ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, or other general corporate purposes; and decreased flexibility when planning for or reacting to changes in our business and industry. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our results of operations and financial condition, many of which are beyond our control. Further, we may not have access to equity or debt markets or other sources of financing, or such financing may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, to repay or refinance our debt as it comes due or, in the case of our convertible notes, upon conversion. The value of our investments could decline, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an investment portfolio of various and diverse holdings. Our portfolio typically includes marketable debt securities, equity securities of publicly-traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility, and investments in private companies. Credit losses, impairments, and changes in the fair values of our investments could be volatile and they have had, and are likely to continue to have, a significant impact on our quarterly net income (or loss). See Notes 5 and 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Our investments in private companies are inherently risky in that such companies are typically at an early stage of development, may have no or limited revenues, may not be or ever become profitable, may not be able to secure additional funding, or their technologies, services, or products may not be successfully developed or introduced to the market. Further, our ability to liquidate any such investments is typically dependent on a liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition, as no public market exists for such securities. Valuations of privately-held companies are inherently complex and uncertain due to the lack of a liquid market for such securities. If we determine that any of our equity investments in such companies have experienced a decline in value, we are required to recognize the change in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For investments classified as debt securities, any decline in value attributed to credit losses is also recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. We could lose the full amount of any of our investments, and impairment of our investments have previously and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties We lease office space facilities for our corporate headquarters in Norwalk, Connecticut, United States of America. We lease additional space, including office space and data center facilities in various locations around the world, to support our operations, the largest being the headquarters of our Booking.com business in Amsterdam, Netherlands. We believe that our existing facilities are adequate to meet our current requirements, and that suitable additional or substitute space will be available as needed to accommodate any further expansion of corporate operations. Item 3. Legal Proceedings A description of any material legal proceedings to which we are a party is included in Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, and is incorporated into this Item 3 by reference. 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Common Stock Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "BKNG." Holders At February 16, 2023, there were approximatel y 130 s hareholders of record of Booking Holdings Inc.'s common stock. Dividend Policy We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock since our inception and do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Our revolving credit facility includes a covenant that restricts us from declaring or making any cash distribution or repurchasing any of our shares (with certain exceptions including in connection with tax withholding related to shares issued to employees) unless we are in compliance on a pro forma basis with the maximum leverage ratio covenant then in effect. Such restriction ends upon delivery of financial statements required for the three months ending June 30, 2023, or we have the ability to terminate this restriction earlier if we demonstrate compliance with the original maximum leverage ratio covenant in the revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2022 , we were in compliance with the relevant maximum leverage ratio covenant. See Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources. Performance Measurement Comparison The following graph shows the total stockholder return through December 31, 2022 of an investment of $100 in cash on December 31, 2017 for our common stock and an investment of $100 in cash on December 31, 2017 for (i) the NASDAQ Composite Index, (ii) the Standard and Poor's 500 Index, and (iii) the Research Data Group ("RDG") Internet Composite Index. The RDG Internet Composite Index is an index of stocks representing the internet industry, including internet software and service companies and e-commerce companies. Historic stock performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. All values assume reinvestment of the full amount of all dividends and are calculated as of the last day of each month: 34 Measurement Point December 31 Booking Holdings Inc. NASDAQ Composite Index S&P 500 Index RDG Internet Composite 2017 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 2018 99.12 97.16 95.62 89.34 2019 118.18 132.81 125.72 126.80 2020 128.17 192.47 148.85 174.13 2021 138.07 235.15 191.58 170.44 2022 115.97 158.65 156.89 103.35 35 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table sets forth information relating to repurchases of our equity securities during the three months ended December 31, 2022: ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Period Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased Average Price Paid per Share (or Unit) Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares (or Units) that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1, 2022 340,381 (1) $ 1,748 340,381 $ 5,646,693,772 (1) October 31, 2022 13 (2) $ 1,664 N/A N/A November 1, 2022 421,097 (1) $ 1,947 421,097 $ 4,826,709,181 (1) November 30, 2022 1,828 (2) $ 2,013 N/A N/A December 1, 2022 468,326 (1) $ 1,991 468,326 $ 3,894,328,381 (1) December 31, 2022 792 (2) $ 1,945 N/A N/A Total 1,232,437 1,229,804 $ 3,894,328,381 (1) Pursuant to a stock repurchase program announced on May 9, 2019, whereby we were authorized to repurchase up to $15.0 billion of our common stock. (2) Pursuant to a general authorization, not publicly announced, whereby we are authorized to repurchase shares of our common stock to satisfy employee withholding tax obligations related to stock-based compensation. The table above does not include adjustments during the three months ended December 31, 2022 to previously withheld share amounts (addition of ten shares) that reflect changes to the estimates of employee tax withholding obligations. Item 6. [Reserved] 36 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, and the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in any forward-looking statements, which may be due to factors discussed in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period operating and financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Overview Our mission is to make it easier for everyone to experience the world. We connect consumers who wish to make travel reservations with travel service providers around the world through our online platforms. We offer these services through six primary consumer-facing brands: Booking.com, Priceline, agoda, Rentalcars.com, KAYAK, and OpenTable. See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information on our operating segments. See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to revenue by geographic area. We derive substantially all of our revenues from enabling consumers to make travel service reservations. We also earn revenues from advertising services, restaurant reservations and restaurant management services, and various other services, such as travel-related insurance revenues. Trends The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting implementation of travel restrictions by governments around the world resulted in a significant decline in travel activities and consumer demand for related services. Accommodation room nights, which include the impact of cancellations, declined rapidly as the COVID-19 pandemic spread in 2020. Since the beginning of the second quarter of 2020 and through 2022, changes in accommodation room nights versus the comparable period in 2019 have generally improved as government-imposed travel restrictions have eased, vaccines and other medical interventions have become more widespread, and consumer demand for travel has generally rebounded. In 2021, room nights were 66% higher than in 2020 but still 30% lower than in 2019. On a regional basis, considering where the traveler is booking from, North America was the only region in 2021 to have room nights increase versus 2019. In 2022, global room nights were 52% higher than in 2021 and 6% higher than in 2019. The year-over-year growth in room nights in 2022 was driven primarily by the continued recovery in Europe, Asia, and Rest of World, as well as by continued growth in North America. 37 The comparison of room nights in 2021 and 2022 to the comparable period in 2019 avoids the distortion created from comparing to a prior year period that was significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Quarterly Room Nights and Change versus 2019 In early March 2022, following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, we suspended the booking of travel services in Russia and Belarus. This led to the loss of new bookings from bookers in these countries. Excluding room nights from bookers in Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus in both 2022 and 2019, our overall room nights in 2022 were up about 10% versus 2019. We have observed an improvement in cancellation rates since the high in April 2020, though we have seen periods of elevated cancellation rates typically coinciding with significant increases in COVID-19 cases and newly imposed travel restrictions. The cancellation rate in 2022 improved compared to the cancellation rates in 2021 and 2019. In 2022, a higher share of our room nights were booked with flexible cancellation policies, as compared to 2019 and 2021, which could result in higher cancellation rates in future periods. Because we recognize revenue from bookings when the traveler checks in, our reported revenue is not at risk of being reversed due to cancellations. Increases in cancellation rates can negatively impact our marketing efficiency as a result of incurring performance marketing expense at the time a booking is made even though that booking could be canceled in the future if it was booked under a flexible cancellation policy. There are many factors in addition to cancellation rates that contribute to marketing efficiency including average daily rates ("ADRs"), costs per click, foreign currency exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking consumers, the timing and effectiveness of our brand marketing campaigns, and the extent to which consumers come directly to our platforms for bookings. Significant increases in cancellation rates such as those experienced during the second quarter of 2020 may increase our customer service costs. 38 Since the second quarter of 2020, government-imposed travel restrictions have generally limited international travel (travelers booking a stay at a property located outside their own country) more than domestic travel (travelers booking a stay within their own country). We believe the continued easing of government-imposed travel restrictions in many countries throughout the world in 2022 helped drive an increase in the mix of our room nights booked for international travel versus 2021, however, the mix remained below 2019 levels. We saw an increase in the mix of our room nights booked on a mobile device in 2022 compared to 2019. When comparing 2022 to 2021, we saw a decrease in the mix of our room nights booked on a mobile device in 2022 due to a year-over-year increase in the mix of our room nights booked for international travel and a year-over-year expansion of the booking window. Room nights booked on a mobile device generally have a lower mix of international travel and a shorter booking window than room nights booked on a desktop. The mix of our room nights booked on a mobile app in 2022 was above 2019 and 2021. We continue to see favorable repeat direct booking behavior from consumers in our mobile apps, which allow us more opportunities to engage directly with consumers. The revenue earned on a transaction from a mobile device may be less than a typical desktop transaction as we see different consumer purchasing patterns across devices. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and have lower accommodation ADRs. Our global ADRs increased approximately 25%, on a constant currency basis, in 2022 as compared to 2019, driven primarily by higher ADRs for accommodations located in Europe as well as increases in ADRs across all other regions as compared to 2019. In addition, we estimate that our global ADRs in 2022, as compared to 2019, benefited by approximately two percentage points from changes in the geographical mix of our business driven primarily by slower room night recovery in Asia, which is a low ADR region, and stronger room night performance in North America, which is a high ADR region. Our global ADRs increased approximately 15%, on a constant currency basis, in 2022 as compared to 2021, driven primarily by higher ADRs in Europe as well as increases in ADRs across all other regions as compared to 2021. The increase in our global ADRs in 2022, as compared to 2021, was negatively impacted by approximately three percentage points from changes in geographical mix in our business driven primarily by stronger year-over-year room night growth in Asia and lower year-over-year room night growth in North America. Prior to the COVID-19 outbreak, we observed a trend of declining constant-currency accommodation ADRs partially driven by the negative impact of the changing geographical mix of our business (e.g., lower ADR regions like Asia were generally growing faster than higher ADR regions like Western Europe and North America) as well as pricing pressures within local markets from time to time. Those declining ADR trends resulted in accommodation gross bookings growing less than room nights. As the travel market continues to recover from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and with all regions experiencing general inflation in prices, we have seen travel industry ADRs generally increasing from pandemic lows in 2020. While our ADRs have continued to increase in 2022 as compared to 2019, it remains highly uncertain what the trend in industry ADRs will look like going forward. We focus on relentless innovation to grow our business by, among other things, providing a best-in-class user experience with intuitive, easy-to-use online platforms to ensure that we are meeting the needs of online consumers while aiming to exceed their expectations. As part of these ongoing efforts, we have a long-term strategy to build a seamless offering of multiple elements of travel, allowing us to provide a more tailored and flexible consumer experience, which we refer to as the "Connected Trip," and we expect these efforts to increase room night growth and revenue growth over time. We may see a negative impact on our operating margins in the near term as we incur the expenses associated with Connected Trip-related investments. Further, to the extent our non-accommodation services (e.g., airline ticket reservation services) have lower margins and increase as a percentage of our total business, our operating margins may be negatively affected. As part of our strategy to provide more payment options to consumers and travel service providers, increase the number and variety of accommodations available on Booking.com, and enable our long-term Connected Trip strategy, Booking.com increasingly processes transactions on a merchant basis, where it facilitates payments from travelers for the services provided. This allows Booking.com to process transactions for travel service providers and to increase its ability to offer secure and flexible transaction terms to consumers, such as the form and timing of payment. We believe that expanding these types of service offerings will benefit consumers and travel service providers, as well as our gross bookings, room night, and earnings growth rates. However, this results in additional expenses for personnel, payment processing, chargebacks (including those related to fraud), and other expenses related to these transactions, which are recorded in "Personnel" and "Sales and other expenses" in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, as well as associated incremental revenues (e.g., credit card rebates), which are recorded in "Merchant revenues." To the extent more of our business is generated on a merchant basis, we incur a greater level of these merchant-related expenses, which negatively impacts our operating margins despite increases in associated incremental revenues. The mix of our gross bookings generated on a merchant basis was 44% in 2022, an increase from 34% in 2021 and 27% in 2019. 39 We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through marketing and promotional campaigns. Our total marketing expenses, which are comprised of performance and brand marketing expenses that are substantially variable in nature, were $6.0 billion in 2022, up 58% versus 2021 and up 21% versus 2019 as a result of the improving demand environment and our efforts to invest in marketing. Our performance marketing expense, which represents a substantial majority of our marketing expense, is primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services, and affiliate marketing to generate traffic to our platforms. Our brand marketing expense is primarily related to costs associated with producing and airing television advertising, online video advertising (for example, on YouTube and Facebook), and online display advertising. Marketing efficiency, expressed as marketing expense as a percentage of gross bookings, and performance marketing returns on investment ("ROIs") are impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and are in some cases outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign currency exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers, and the timing and effectiveness of our brand marketing campaigns. In recent years, we observed periods of stable or increasing ROIs. Although it is difficult to predict how performance marketing ROIs will change in the future, ROIs could be negatively impacted by increased levels of competition and other factors. When evaluating our performance marketing spend, we typically consider several factors for each channel, such as the customer experience on the advertising platform, the incremental traffic we receive, and anticipated repeat rates. Marketing efficiency can also be impacted by the extent to which consumers come directly to our platforms for bookings. Marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross bookings in 2022 were lower than 2019 despite lower performance marketing ROIs due to an increase in the share of room nights booked by consumers coming directly to our platforms. Performance marketing ROIs were lower in 2022 versus 2019 due to our efforts to invest in marketing during the recovery in the travel industry in 2022. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " We rely on marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our platforms and grow our business, " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in online search and meta-search algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " Historically, our growth has primarily been generated by the worldwide accommodation reservation business of Booking.com due in part to the availability of a large number of properties through Booking.com. Booking.com included over 2.7 million properties on its website at December 31, 2022, consisting of over 400,000 hotels, motels, and resorts and approximately 2.3 million alternative accommodation properties (including homes, apartments, and other unique places to stay), and representing an increase from approximately 2.4 million properties at December 31, 2021. The year-over-year increase in total properties was driven primarily by an increase in alternative accommodation properties. The mix of Booking.coms room nights booked for alternative accommodation properties in 2022 was approximately 30%, up slightly versus 2019 and 2021. We have observed an overall longer-term trend of an increasing mix of room nights booked for alternative accommodation properties as consumer demand for these types of properties has grown, and as we have increased the number and variety of alternative accommodation properties available to consumers on Booking.com. We may experience lower profit margins due to additional costs, such as increased customer service costs, related to offering alternative accommodations on our platforms. As our alternative accommodation business has grown, these different characteristics have negatively impacted our profit margins and this trend may continue. Although we believe that providing an extensive collection of properties, excellent customer service, and an intuitive, easy-to-use consumer experience are important factors influencing a consumer's decision to make a reservation, for many consumers, the price of the travel service is the primary factor determining whether a consumer will book a reservation. Discounting and couponing (i.e., merchandising) occurs across all of the major regions in which we operate, particularly in Asia. In some cases, our competitors are willing to make little or no profit on a transaction, or offer travel services at a loss, in order to gain market share. As a result, it is increasingly important to offer travel services, such as accommodation reservations, at a competitive price, whether through discounts, coupons, closed-user group rates or loyalty programs, increased flexibility in cancellation policies, or otherwise. These initiatives have resulted and, in the future, may result in lower ADRs and lower revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Total revenue as a percentage of gross bookings was negatively impacted by investments in merchandising in 2022 compared to 2021 and 2019. Many taxing authorities are increasingly focused on ways to increase tax revenues and have targeted large multinational technology companies in these efforts. As a result, many countries and some U.S. states have implemented or are considering the adoption of a digital services tax or similar tax that imposes a tax on revenue earned from digital advertisements or the use of online platforms, even when there is no physical presence in the jurisdiction. Currently, rates for this tax range from 1.5% to 10% of revenue deemed generated in the jurisdiction. The digital services taxes currently in effect, which we record in "General and administrative" expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, have negatively impacted our 40 results of operations. While the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has been working on multinational tax changes that could require all member parties to remove all digital services taxes, the timing for completion of that project has been delayed and many details remain uncertain. If that project is significantly delayed or not completed more countries could implement digital services taxes, which could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. For more information, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " Increased regulatory focus on online businesses, including online travel businesses like ours, could result in increased compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. For example, the Digital Markets Act ("DMA") and Digital Services Act ("DSA") give regulators in the EU more instruments to investigate and regulate digital businesses and impose new rules and requirements on platforms designated as "gatekeepers" under the DMA and online platforms more generally, with separate rules for "Very Large Online Platforms" under the DSA. For more information on the impacts of regulations on our business, see Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " Our business is subject to various competition/anti-trust, consumer protection, and online commerce laws, rules, and regulations around the world, and as the size of our business grows, scrutiny of our business by legislators and regulators in these areas may intensify. " Our businesses outside of the U.S. (see Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements) represent a substantial majority of our financial results, but because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates as the financial results and the financial condition of our businesses outside of the U.S. are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. For example, the U.S. Dollar strengthened in 2022 versus both the Euro and British Pound Sterling by 11% and 10%, respectively, as compared to 2021. As a result of the movements in foreign currency exchange rates, both the absolute amounts of and percentage changes in our foreign-currency-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars are affected. Our total revenues increased by 56% in 2022 as compared to 2021, but without the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates our total revenue increased year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately 71%. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins have not been significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. We designate certain portions of the aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated debt as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of the net investment in certain Euro functional currency subsidiaries. Foreign currency transaction gains or losses on the Euro-denominated debt that is not designated as a hedging instrument for accounting purposes are recognized in "Other income (expense), net" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Notes 12 and 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). Such foreign currency transaction gains or losses are dependent on the amount of net assets of the Euro functional currency subsidiaries, the amount of the Euro-denominated debt that is designated as a hedge, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For more information, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates." We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. See Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our derivative contracts. Other Factors Over the long term, we intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology, and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. In recent years, we have experienced pressure on operating margins as we invested in initiatives to drive future growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, including exploring strategic alternatives such as acquisitions. The competition for technology talent in our industry is intense, including among established technology companies, startups, and companies transitioning to digital, and this level of competition could continue in the future. As a result of the competitive labor market and inflationary pressure on compensation, our personnel expenses to attract and retain key talent are increasing, which may adversely affect our results of operations. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " We rely on the performance of highly skilled employees; and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key employees or hire, retain, and motivate well-qualified employees, our business would be harmed. " 41 Outlook In January 2023, we saw an improvement in the monthly room night growth rate versus 2019 relative to the fourth quarter of 2022, with room nights growing about 26% versus January 2019, driven primarily by improvements in Europe, Rest of World, and Asia. On a year-over-year basis, room night growth in January 2023 was 60%, due in part to the negative impact of the Omicron variant on January 2022 room nights. While there continues to be uncertainty around the month to month trends, we assume that room night growth in the first quarter of 2023 will grow by over 30% relative to the first quarter of 2022. Given that assumption for room night growth, we expect the following for the first quarter of 2023: the year-over-year growth in gross bookings will be about four percentage points better than the year-over-year growth in room nights; revenues as a percentage of gross bookings will be higher than it was in the first quarter of 2022; and operating profit will be higher than in the first quarter of 2022. For the full year, assuming gross bookings increase in 2023 compared to 2022 by a low teens percentage, we expect the following for full-year 2023: revenues as a percentage of gross bookings will be higher than it was in 2022; and operating profit will be higher than in 2019 and 2022. Critical Accounting Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). Our significant accounting policies and estimates are more fully described in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. We use our judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of `certain estimates and we evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. Estimates are based on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Matters that involve significant estimates and judgments of management include the following: Valuation of Investments in Private Companies See Notes 2, 5, and 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the investments in private companies and information on fair value measurements, including the three levels of inputs to the valuation techniques used to measure fair value. When inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly (observable market data), are available at the measurement date and are not significantly adjusted using unobservable inputs, the observable inputs would be classified as Level 2 inputs. When little or no market data is available, the fair value of these investments are measured using unobservable inputs ("Level 3 inputs"). Our investments measured using Level 3 inputs primarily consist of investments in privately-held companies that were classified as either debt securities or equity securities without readily determinable fair values. Fair values of privately held securities are estimated using a variety of valuation methodologies, including both market and income approaches. We use valuation techniques appropriate for the type of investment and the information available about the investee as of the valuation date to determine fair value. Recent financing transactions in the investee are generally considered the best indication of the enterprise value and therefore used as a basis to estimate fair value. However, based on a number of factors, such as the proximity to the valuation date or the volume or other terms of these financing transactions, we may also use other valuation techniques to supplement this data, including the income approach. When a recent financing transaction occurs and represents fair value, we also use the calibration process, as appropriate, when estimating fair value on subsequent measurement dates. Calibration is the process of using observed transactions in the investee company's own instruments to ensure that the valuation techniques that will be employed to value the investee company investment on subsequent measurement dates begin with assumptions that are consistent with the original observed transaction as well as any more recent observed transactions in the instruments issued by the investee company. In July 2021, Yanolja announced a new round of funding which was completed in October 2021 along with certain other transactions. As a result of these observable transactions, we increased the carrying value of our investment in Yanolja to 42 $306 million as of December 31, 2021. During the three months ended June 30, 2022, considering the significant adverse changes in the market valuations of companies in the travel and technology industries, we evaluated our investment in Yanolja for impairment and recognized an impairment charge of $184 million resulting in an adjusted carrying value of $122 million at June 30, 2022 and December 31, 2022. As discussed below, we used unobservable inputs to determine fair value. We used a combination of the market approach and the income approach in estimating the fair value of our investment in Yanolja as of June 30, 2022. The market approach estimates value using prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable companies. The income approach estimates value based on the expectation of future cash flows that a company will generate. These future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a discount rate based on a companys weighted-average cost of capital, and is adjusted to reflect the risks inherent in its cash flows. The key unobservable inputs and ranges used in estimating the fair value of our investment in Yanolja as of June 30, 2022 include, for the market approach, percentage decrease in the calibrated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA") multiple (36%) and for the income approach, the weighted average cost of capital (10%-14%) and terminal EBITDA multiple (14x-16x). Significant changes in any of these inputs in isolation would result in significantly different fair value measurements. Generally, a change in the assumption used for EBITDA multiples would result in a directionally similar change in the fair value and a change in the assumption used for weighted average cost of capital would result in a directionally opposite change in the fair value. The determination of the fair values of investments in private companies, where we are a minority shareholder and have access to limited information from the investee, reflects numerous assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including key assumptions regarding the investees expected growth rates and operating margin, as well as other key assumptions with respect to matters outside of our control, such as discount rates and market comparables. It requires significant judgments and estimates and actual results could be materially different than those judgments and estimates used. Future events and changing market conditions may lead us to re-evaluate the assumptions reflected in our valuation, which may result in a need to recognize additional impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Valuation of Goodwill and other Long-lived Assets The application of the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Our estimates of the fair value are based upon assumptions that we believe are reasonable. When we deem appropriate, we utilize assistance from third-party valuation firms. The consideration transferred is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective values at the acquisition date. The excess of the consideration transferred over the net of the amounts allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination. A substantial portion of our intangible assets and goodwill relates to the acquisitions of OpenTable, KAYAK, and Getaroom. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the acquisition of Getaroom in December 2021. We review long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based upon the ability to recover the carrying value of the assets from the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows, before interest and taxes, of the related asset group. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likel y than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We test goodwill at a reporting unit level and our annual goodwill impairment tests are performed as of September 30. As of September 30, 2022, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test and concluded that there was no impairment of goodwill. The estimation of fair values of our reporting units reflect numerous assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including key assumptions regarding each reporting units expected growth rates and operating margin and the competitive environment, as well as other key assumptions with respect to matters outside of our control, such as discount rates and market comparables. Generally, changes in the assumptions used for comparable company multiples would result in directionally similar changes in the fair value and changes in the assumptions used for discount rates would result in directionally opposite changes in the fair value. The estimation of fair value requires significant judgments and estimates and actual results could be materially different than the judgments and estimates used. During 2022, there have been significant adverse changes in the market valuation of companies in the travel and technology industries. Discount rates have also been impacted during the period due to rising interest rates and adverse changes in the macroeconomic environment. Future events and changing market conditions, including economic uncertainties such as inflation, rising interest rates and risks of a potential 43 recession, may lead us to re-evaluate the assumptions used to estimate the fair values of our reporting units, which may result in a need to recognize additional goodwill impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2020, as a result of the deterioration of the Companys business due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company recorded significant goodwill impairment charges (described below) related to the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit. For the 2020 annual goodwill impairment test and subsequent annual tests, including as of September 30, 2022, the estimated fair value of Op enTable and KAYAK was determined using a combination of standard valuation techniques, including an income approach (discounted cash flows) and a market approach (applying comparable company multiples). The carrying value of goodwill assigned to the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit was $973 million as of September 30, 2022. Future events and changing market conditions, including adverse changes in discount rates and market comparables, may require us to revise our assumptions and estimate a lower fair value for the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit at a future date, which may result in a need to recognize additional goodwill impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If the discount rate used in the income approach as of September 30, 2022 increases or decreases by 0.5%, the impact to the estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK, at September 30, 2022, would have ranged from a decrease of approximately $98 million to an increase of approximately $111 million. If the comparable company multiple used in the market approach as of September 30, 2022 increases or decreases by 1x, the impact to the estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK, at September 30, 2022, would have ranged from an increase of approximately $159 million to a decrease of approximately $159 million. 2020 Interim Goodwill Impairment Test Due to the significant and negative financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic (see Note 2), we performed an interim period goodwill impairment test at March 31, 2020 and recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $489 million related to the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit for the three months ended March 31, 2020, which is not tax-deductible, resulting in an adjusted carrying value of goodwill for OpenTable and KAYAK of $1.5 billion at March 31, 2020. The goodwill impairment was primarily driven by a significant reduction in the forecasted near-term cash flows of OpenTable and KAYAK as well as the significant decline in comparable companies' market values as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK was determined using a combination of standard valuation techniques, including an income approach (discounted cash flows) and a market approach (applying the recent decline in enterprise values of comparable publicly-traded companies to the recently calculated fair value for OpenTable and KAYAK as well as applying comparable company multiples). The income approach estimates fair value utilizing long-term growth rates and discount rates applied to the cash flow projections. In the cash flow projections, we assumed at the time that OpenTable and KAYAK would experience a significant decline in near-term cash flows with a recovery to 2019 levels of financial performance (including profitability) occurring in 2023. The shape and timing of the recovery was a key assumption in our fair value calculation (both in the income and market approaches). 2020 Annual Goodwill Impairment Test As of September 30, 2020, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test and recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $573 million for the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit for the three months ended September 30, 2020, which is not tax-deductible, resulting in an adjusted carrying value of goodwill for OpenTable and KAYAK of $1.0 billion at September 30, 2020. The goodwill impairment was primarily driven by a significant reduction in the forecasted cash flows of OpenTable and KAYAK, reflecting a longer assumed recovery period to 2019 levels of profitability, mainly due to the continued material adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including its impact on the flight vertical at KAYAK, and the lowered outlook for monetization opportunities in restaurant reservation services. The estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK was determined using a combination of standard valuation techniques, including an income approach (discounted cash flows) and a market approach (applying comparable company multiples). The income approach, applied as of September 30, 2020, reflected a reduction in the forecasted cash flows of OpenTable and KAYAK and a longer assumed recovery period to 2019 levels of profitability, driven primarily by a lowered outlook for monetization opportunities in restaurant reservation services and slower than previously expected recovery trends for airline travel, which is a key vertical for KAYAK. For the interim goodwill impairment test at March 31, 2020, we assumed a recovery to 2019 levels of financial performance would occur in 2023 for OpenTable and KAYAK. Based on our evaluation of all relevant information available as of September 30, 2020 for the annual goodwill impairment test, we expected at the time that OpenTable and KAYAK would not return to the 2019 level of profitability within five years from that date, and that it was uncertain whether the shape of the recovery would ultimately match our expectations. An increase or decrease of one percentage point to the profitability growth rates used in the cash flow projections would have resulted in an increase or 44 decrease of approximately $100 million to the estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK as of September 30, 2020. The discount rate is determined based on the reporting units estimated weighted-average cost of capital and adjusted to reflect the risks inherent in its cash flows, which requires significant judgments. The discount rate used for the annual goodwill impairment test as of September 30, 2020 was higher than the discount rate used for the interim goodwill impairment test as of March 31, 2020. If the discount rate used in the income approach increases or decreases by 0.5%, the impact to the estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK, at September 30, 2020, would have ranged from a decrease of approximately $65 million to an increase of approximately $70 million. Income Taxes We determine our tax expense based on our income and statutory tax rates applicable in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Due to the complex nature of tax legislation and frequent changes with such associated legislation, significant judgment is required in computing our tax expense and determining our tax positions. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act") enacted in December 2017 made significant changes to U.S. federal tax law, including a one-time deemed repatriation tax imposed on accumulated unremitted international earnings, to be paid over eight years. We do not intend to indefinitely reinvest our international earnings that were subject to U.S. taxation pursuant to the mandatory deemed repatriation or subject to U.S. taxation as global intangible low-taxed income (" GILTI ") . We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of temporary differences, and tax planning strategies and record valuation allowances as required. We are subject to ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. We have been audited in many jurisdictions and from time to time face challenges regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions that we have taken on our tax returns. Although we believe that our tax filing positions are reasonable and comply with applicable law, we regularly review our tax filing positions, especially in light of tax law or business practice changes, and we may change our positions or determine that previous positions should be amended, either of which could result in additional tax liabilities. The final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The evaluation of tax positions and recognition of income tax benefits require significant judgment and we consult with external tax and legal counsel as appropriate. We consider the technical merits of our tax positions along with the applicable tax statutes, related interpretations and precedents, and our expectation of the outcome of proceedings (or negotiations) with tax authorities. We recognize liabilities when we believe that uncertain positions may not be fully sustained upon audit by the tax authorities, including any related appeals or litigation processes. Liabilities recognized for uncertain tax positions are based on a two-step approach for recognition and measurement. First, we evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained based on its technical merits. Second, we measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Interest and penalties attributable to uncertain tax positions, if any, are recognized as a component of income tax expense. The tax benefits ultimately realized by us may be different than what is recorded in the financial statements due to future events such as our settling the matter with the tax authorities and our success in sustaining our tax positions. See Notes 15 and 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies Loss contingencies (other than income tax-related contingencies disclosed above) arise from actual or possible claims and assessments and pending or threatened litigation that may be brought against us. Based on our assessment of loss contingencies at each balance sheet date, a loss is recorded in the financial statements if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. If the amount of the loss cannot be reasonably estimated, we disclose information about the contingency in the financial statements. We also disclose information in our financial statements about reasonably possible loss contingencies. The determination of whether a loss is probable and whether the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated requires significant judgment and evaluation of all the underlying facts and circumstances, including judgments about the potential actions of third-party claimants, regulatory authorities, and courts. Claims, assessments, and litigations involve significant uncertainties such as the complexity of the facts, the legal theories involved, the nature of the claims, the judgment of the courts, the applicable methodology for determining potential damages, and, in the case of class actions, whether a class action can be certified and the extent to which members of a class would or would not file a claim. 45 On a quarterly basis, we update our analysis and estimates considering all available information, including the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, and advice of legal counsel. Changes in our assessment of whether a loss is probable, our estimate of the loss, or our determination of whether the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Changes in our assumptions regarding a particular matter or the effectiveness of our strategies related to legal and other proceedings could also have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. For all loss contingencies, until a matter is finally resolved, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the liability accrued for the matter and such amounts could be material. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for details, which is incorporated into this Item 7 by reference thereto. 46 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2022 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021 We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period operating and financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations negatively impacted our year-over-year growth in gross bookings, revenues, and operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins have not been significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of room nights, rental car days, and airline tickets capture the volume of units booked through our online travel companies' ("OTC") brands by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked through our OTC brands by our customers, net of cancellations, and is widely used in the travel business. Our non-OTC brands (KAYAK and OpenTable) have different business metrics from those of our OTC brands, so search queries through KAYAK and restaurant reservations through OpenTable do not contribute to our gross bookings. Room nights, rental car days, and airline tickets reserved through our services for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (in millions) 2022 2021 Room nights 896 591 51.6 % Rental car days 62 47 30.7 % Airline tickets 23 15 49.9 % Room nights, rental car days, and airline tickets reserved through our services increased significantly in 2022 compared to 2021, due primarily to the continued improvement in travel demand trends as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic lessened in 2022 versus 2021. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of room nights, rental car days, and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant categories for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (in millions) 2022 2021 Agency gross bookings $ 67,379 $ 50,741 32.8 % Merchant gross bookings 53,873 25,845 108.4 % Total gross bookings $ 121,253 $ 76,586 58.3 % Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided, while merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we facilitate payments. Agency and merchant gross bookings increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to the continued improvement in travel demand trends. Merchant gross bookings increased more than agency gross bookings due to the expansion of merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com. The year-over-year increase in gross bookings in 2022 was due primarily to the increase in room nights and the increase in accommodation ADRs of approximately 15% on a constant-currency basis, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of airline tickets increased 86% year-over-year in 2022 due to higher unit growth and ticket price increases. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of rental car days increased 26% year-over-year in 2022 due primarily to higher unit growth. 47 Revenues Online travel reservation services Substantially all of our revenues are generated by providing online travel reservation services, which facilitate online travel purchases between travel service providers and travelers. Revenues from online travel reservation services are classified into two categories: Agency. Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided. Agency revenues consist almost entirely of travel reservation commissions from our accommodation, rental car, and airline reservation services. Substantially all of our agency revenue is from Booking.com's accommodation reservations. Merchant. Merchant revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided, generally at the time of booking. Merchant revenues are derived from transactions where travelers book accommodation, rental car, airline reservations, and other travel related services. The majority of our merchant revenue is from Booking.com's accommodation reservations. Merchant revenues include: travel reservation commissions and transaction net revenues (i.e., the amount charged to travelers, including the impact of merchandising, less the amount owed to travel service providers) in connection with our merchant reservation services; revenues from facilitating payments, such as credit card processing rebates and customer processing fees; and ancillary fees, including travel-related insurance revenues. Advertising and other revenues Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from: revenues earned by KAYAK for (a) sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers and (b) advertising placements on its platforms; and revenues earned by OpenTable for (a) restaurant reservation services (fees paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees for restaurant management services. Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (in millions) 2022 2021 Agency revenues $ 9,003 $ 6,663 35.1 % Merchant revenues 7,193 3,696 94.6 % Advertising and other revenues 894 599 49.4 % Total revenues $ 17,090 $ 10,958 56.0 % Agency, merchant, and advertising and other revenues increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to the continued improvement in gross bookings as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic lessened in 2022 versus 2021, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Merchant revenues in 2022 increased more than agency revenues due to the expansion of merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com. Total revenues as a percentage of gross bookings was 14.1% in 2022, down from 14.3% in 2021 due to investments in merchandising and an increase in the mix of airline ticket gross bookings, partially offset by increased revenues from facilitating payments. 48 Operating Expenses Marketing Expenses Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (in millions) 2022 2021 Marketing expenses $ 5,993 $ 3,801 57.6 % % of Total gross bookings 4.9 % 5.0 % % of Total revenues 35.1 % 34.7 % Marketing expenses consist primarily of the costs of: search engine keyword purchases; referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; affiliate programs; offline and online brand marketing; and other performance-based marketing and incentives. We adjust our marketing spend based on our growth and profitability objectives, as well as the travel demand and expected ROIs in our marketing channels. We rely on our marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. Our marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased significantly in 2022 compared to 2021, due primarily to the continued improvement in travel demand as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic lessened in 2022 versus 2021. Marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross bookings decreased slightly in 2022 compared to 2021 due to year-over-year increases in the mix of direct traffic, partially offset by year-over-year decreases in performance marketing ROIs. Performance marketing ROIs were lower in 2022 versus 2021 due to our efforts to invest in marketing during the recovery in the travel industry in 2022. Sales and Other Expenses Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (in millions) 2022 2021 Sales and other expenses $ 1,818 $ 881 106.3 % % of Total gross bookings 1.5 % 1.2 % % of Total revenues 10.6 % 8.0 % Sales and other expenses consist primarily of: credit card and other payment processing fees associated with merchant transactions; fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations, and other services; chargeback provisions and fraud prevention expenses associated with merchant transactions; provisions for expected credit losses, primarily related to accommodation commission receivables and prepayments to certain customers; and customer relations costs. Sales and other expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased significantly in 2022 compared to 2021, due primarily to an increase in merchant transaction costs of $573 million, and an increase in third-party call center costs of $235 million. Merchant transactions increased year-over-year in 2022 due to the continued improvement in travel demand trends as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic lessened in 2022 versus 2021, as well as the expansion of merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com. The year-over-year increase in third-party call center costs in 2022 was due in part to the transfer of certain customer service operations of Booking.com to Majorel, which shifted costs from personnel expenses to sales and other expenses. 49 Personnel Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (in millions) 2022 2021 Personnel $ 2,465 $ 2,314 6.5 % % of Total revenues 14.4 % 21.1 % Personnel expenses consist primarily of: salaries; bonuses; stock-based compensation; payroll taxes; and employee health and other benefits. Personnel expenses, excluding stock-based compensation, increased 6% in 2022 compared to 2021, due to an increase in salary expense of $139 million and an increase in bonus expense accruals of $66 million, partially offset by the $136 million expense, recorded in 2021, associated with the return of government assistance received through various government aid programs. Employee headcount of approximately 21,600 as of December 31, 2022 increased by 6% as compared to December 31, 2021. Personnel expenses in 2022 and employee headcount as of December 31, 2022 were reduced due to the transfer of certain customer service operations of Booking.com to Majorel which shifted costs from personnel expenses to sales and other expenses. Stock-based compensation expense was $404 million in 2022 compared to $370 million in 2021. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (in millions) 2022 2021 General and administrative $ 934 $ 620 50.9 % % of Total revenues 5.5 % 5.7 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: indirect taxes such as digital services taxes and travel transaction taxes; fees for outside professionals; occupancy and office expenses; and personnel-related expenses such as travel, relocation, recruiting, and training expenses. General and administrative expenses increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to an increase of $167 million in indirect taxes driven by higher digital services taxes, as well as the $46 million accrual related to the potential settlement of an Italian indirect tax matter. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The year-over-year increase in general and administrative expenses was also driven by an increase of $75 million in personnel-related expenses and an increase of $53 million in fees for professional services. The year-over-year increase in digital services taxes was driven by the improvement in revenue. Information Technology Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (in millions) 2022 2021 Information technology $ 526 $ 412 27.6 % % of Total revenues 3.1 % 3.8 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: software license and system maintenance fees; cloud computing costs and outsourced data center costs; payments to contractors; and data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services. 50 Information technology expenses increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to increased cloud computing costs, payments to contractors, and software license fees. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (in millions) 2022 2021 Depreciation and amortization $ 451 $ 421 6.9 % % of Total revenues 2.6 % 3.8 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; amortization of internally-developed and purchased software; depreciation of computer equipment; and depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures, and office equipment. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to increased amortization expense related to the acquisition of Getaroom, partially offset by decreased depreciation of computer equipment and leasehold improvements. Restructuring, Disposal, and Other Exit Activities Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (in millions) 2022 2021 Restructuring, disposal, and other exit activities $ (199) $ 13 * % of Total revenues (1.2) % 0.1 % * Not meaningful Restructuring, disposal, and other exit activities in 2022 includes the gain of $240 million on the sale and leaseback transaction related to Booking.com's future headquarters building (see Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by a loss of $41 million related to the transfer of certain customer service operations of Booking.com to Majorel. Restructuring, disposal, and other exit activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 principally relate to the restructuring charges as a result of restructuring actions taken in 2020 and are primarily related to employee severance and other termination benefits at Booking.com (see Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (in millions) 2022 2021 Interest expense $ 391 $ 334 16.9 % Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to higher interest rates relating to our cash management activities (with related income recorded in interest income) and the issuance of senior notes in November 2022. This was offset in part by the impact of the adoption on January 1, 2022 of the new accounting standards update for convertible instruments, the redemption of senior notes with higher interest rates in April 2021, and the maturity in September 2021 of convertible senior notes. The amortization of debt discount on convertible debt was recorded in Interest expense. With the adoption of the new accounting standards update, such amortization is not recorded in the financial statements for periods after January 1, 2022 (see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). Other Income (Expense), Net Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (in millions) 2022 2021 Other income (expense), net $ (788) $ (697) 13.1 % 51 The following table sets forth the composition of "Other income (expense), net" for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2022 2021 Interest and dividend income $ 219 $ 16 Net losses on equity securities (963) (569) Foreign currency transaction (losses) gains (43) 111 Loss on early extinguishment of debt (242) Other (1) (13) Other income (expense), net $ (788) $ (697) See Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Interest and dividend income increased for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to the impact of higher interest rates on cash management activities (with related expenses recorded in interest expense) and investment activities. See Notes 5 and 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to net losses on equity securities and the impairment of an investment in equity securities. Foreign currency transaction (losses) gains for the year ended December 31, 2022 includes gains of $46 million related to our Euro-denominated debt and accrued interest that were not designated as net investment hedges and losses of $52 million on derivative contracts. Foreign currency transaction gains for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes gains of $135 million related to our Euro-denominated debt and accrued interest that were not designated as net investment hedges and losses of $30 million on derivative contracts. Loss on early extinguishment of debt is related to our Senior Notes due April 2025 and our Senior Notes due April 2027 that were redeemed in April 2021 (see Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (in millions) 2022 2021 Income tax expense $ 865 $ 300 188.6 % % of Income before income taxes 22.1 % 20.5 % Our 2022 effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to higher international tax rates, a valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets related to certain unrealized losses on equity securities, certain non-deductible expenses, and an increase in unrecognized tax benefits, partially offset by the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax (discussed below). Our 2021 effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax, partially offset by higher international tax rates and an increase in unrecognized tax benefits. Our effective tax rate was higher for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to lower benefit resulting from the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax and higher valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets related to certain unrealized losses on equity securities, partially offset by lower international tax rates. Under Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying innovative activities is taxed at a rate of 9% ("Innovation Box Tax") for periods beginning on or after January 1, 2021 rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. Previously, the Innovation Box Tax rate was 7%. Effective January 1, 2022, the Netherlands corporate income tax rate increased from 25% to 25.8%. A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment, which had a significant beneficial impact on our effective tax rates for these periods. For more information regarding the Innovation Box Tax, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " We may not be able to maintain our 'Innovation Box Tax' benefit. " 52 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2021 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020 For a comparison of our results of operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2022. 53 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial results and prospects are almost entirely dependent on facilitating the sale of travel-related services. The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting implementation of restrictive measures resulted in a significant decline in travel activities and consumer demand for related services, in 2020 in particular. For more information, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " The COVID-19 pandemic has materially adversely affected, and may further adversely impact, our business and financial performance." Marketing expenses and personnel expenses are the most significant operating expenses for our business. We rely on marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. See our Consolidated Statements of Operations and "Trends" and "Results of Operations" above for additional information on marketing expenses and personnel expenses including stock-based compensation expenses. Our continued access to sources of liquidity depends on multiple factors, including global economic conditions, the condition of global financial markets, the availability of sufficient amounts of financing, our ability to meet debt covenant requirements, our operating performance, and our credit ratings. If our credit ratings were to be downgraded, or financing sources were to ascribe higher risk to our rating levels, our industry or us, our access to capital and the cost of any financing would be negatively impacted. There is no guarantee that additional debt financing will be available in the future to fund our obligations, or that it will be available on commercially reasonable terms, in which case we may need to seek other sources of funding. In addition, the terms of future debt agreements could include more restrictive covenants than those we are currently subject to, which could restrict our business operations. For more information, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " Our liquidity, credit ratings, and ongoing access to capital could be materially and negatively affected by global financial conditions and events." At December 31, 2022, we had $15.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term investments, of which approximately $9.3 billion is held by our international subsidiaries. Cash, cash equivalents, and long-term investments held by our international subsidiaries are denominated primarily in Euros, Hong Kong Dollars, and British Pounds Sterling. Cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments are principally comprised of money market fund investments, time deposits and certificates of deposit, government and corporate debt securities, equity securities of Meituan, Grab Holdings Limited ("Grab") and DiDi Global Inc. ("DiDi"), and our investments in private companies. We completed the sale of our investment in equity securities of Meituan in February 2023 and received gross proceeds of $1.7 billion. See Notes 5 and 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Deferred merchant bookings of $2.2 billion at December 31, 2022 represents cash payments received from travelers in advance of us completing our performance obligations and are comprised principally of amounts estimated to be payable to travel service providers as well as our estimated future revenue for our commission or margin and fees. The amounts are mostly subject to refunds for cancellations. At December 31, 2022, we had a remaining transition tax liability of $811 million as a result of the Tax Act, which included $711 million reported as "Long-term U.S. transition tax liability" and $100 million included in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. This liability will be paid over the next four years. In accordance with the Tax Act, generally, future repatriation of our international cash will not be subject to a U.S. federal income tax liability as a dividend, but will be subject to U.S. state income taxes and international withholding taxes, which have been accrued by us. In August 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 was enacted into law in the United States. The key provisions applicable to us include a 15% corporate minimum tax on book income. In addition, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities." In August 2019, we entered into a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $80 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $100 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. The proceeds of loans made under the facility can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, share repurchases and debt repayments. At December 31, 2022, there were no borrowings outstanding and $14 million of letters of credit issued under this revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility contains a maximum leverage ratio covenant. After a 2020 amendment to the revolving credit facility, the permitted maximum leverage ratio is increased through and including the three months ending March 31, 2023 and we may not declare or make any cash distribution or repurchase any of our shares (with certain exceptions including in connection with tax withholding related to shares issued to employees) unless we are in compliance on a pro forma basis with the maximum leverage ratio covenant then in effect. Such restriction ends upon delivery of financial statements required for the three months ending June 30, 2023, or we have the ability to terminate this restriction earlier if we demonstrate compliance with the original maximum leverage ratio covenant in the revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2022, we were 54 in compliance with the relevant maximum leverage ratio covenant. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the maximum leverage ratio covenant at any particular time, and our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility depends on compliance with the covenant. Further, the lenders have the right to require repayment of any amounts borrowed under the facility if we are not in compliance with the covenant. In November 2022, the Company issued senior notes for an aggregate principal amount of 3.5 billion Euros with interest rates ranging from 4.0% to 4.75% and with maturity dates ranging from November 2026 to November 2034. The Company paid $19 million in debt issuance costs during the year ended December 31, 2022 related to the issuance of these senior notes. A portion of the proceeds from the issuance of these senior notes were used to repay the Senior Notes due November 2022 (the "November 2022 Notes"). In addition, we intend to repay the Senior Notes due March 2023 from these proceeds upon maturity. The remaining proceeds from the issuance of these senior notes are available to be used for general corporate purposes. In November 2022, we repaid $778 million on the maturity of the November 2022 Notes. In March 2022, the Company repaid $1.1 billion on the maturity of Senior Notes due March 2022. In addition, the Company paid the applicable accrued and unpaid interest relating to these senior notes. At December 31, 2022, we had outstanding senior notes with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $12.5 billion, with $500 million payable within the next twelve months. The senior notes had a cumulative interest to maturity of $2.4 billion, with $365 million payable within the next twelve months. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our debt arrangements, including principal amounts, interest rates and maturity dates. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we repurchased shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $6.7 billion. At December 31, 2022, we had a total remaining amount of $3.9 billion authorized by our Board of Directors to repurchase our common stock. In February 2023, our Board authorized a program to repurchase up to an additional $20.0 billion of our common stock. We expect to complete repurchases under the two authorizations within the next four years, assuming we remain in compliance with the applicable maximum leverage ratio covenant under the credit facility amendment. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 has mandated a 1% excise tax on stock repurchases effective from January 1, 2023. See Notes 12 and 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock repurchases subsequent to December 31, 2022 were approximately $542 million as of February 22, 2023. In November 2021, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire global flight booking provider Etraveli Group for approximately 1.6 billion Euros ($1.7 billion). Completion of the acquisition is subject to certain closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. In December 2022, we entered into a sale and leaseback transaction for Booking.coms future headquarters building. The building was sold for an aggregate consideration of approximately 566 million Euros ($601 million) and we concurrently entered into an agreement to lease the building from the purchaser for an initial term of 16.5 years, with up to five renewal options of five years each. The annual base rent under the lease is 24 million Euros ($26 million) and will increase annually based on the consumer price index, subject to a specified ceiling. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. At December 31, 2022, we had lease obligations of $867 million. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our obligations related to operating and financing leases. Additionally, at December 31, 2022, we had, in the aggregate, $378 million of non-cancellable purchase obligations individually greater than $10 million payable over the next five years, of which $143 million is payable within the next twelve months. Such purchase obligations relate to agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding, that specify all significant terms, including the quantities to be purchased, price provisions, and the approximate timing of the transaction. At December 31, 2022 there were $452 million of standby letters of credit and bank guarantees issued on our behalf. These are obtained primarily for regulatory purposes. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our commitments and contingencies. We believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures, and other obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, if we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plans, 55 either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to compete or our future growth prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, revenue growth or sustained profitability may not be realized, and future borrowings or equity sales may not be available in amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies, or repay our indebtedness. Cash Flow Analysis Year Ended December 31, 2022 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $6.6 billion, resulting from net income of $3.1 billion, a favorable net impact of $1.7 billion from adjustments for non-cash items and the gain on the sale and leaseback transaction, and a favorable net change in working capital and long-term assets and liabilities of $1.8 billion. Non-cash items were principally associated with net losses on equity securities, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and other stock-based payments, deferred income tax benefit, provision for expected credit losses and chargebacks, and operating lease amortization. For the year ended December 31, 2022, deferred merchant bookings and other current liabilities increased by $3.7 billion, and accounts receivable increased by $1.2 billion, primarily due to increases in business volumes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $2.8 billion, resulting from net income of $1.2 billion, a favorable impact of $1.4 billion from adjustments for non-cash items and the loss on early extinguishment of debt, and a favorable net change in working capital and other long-term assets and liabilities of $269 million. Non-cash items were principally associated with net losses on equity securities, deferred income tax benefit, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and other stock-based payments, and operating lease amortization. For the year ended December 31, 2021, accounts receivable increased by $1.0 billion and deferred merchant bookings and other current liabilities increased by $1.5 billion, primarily due to increases in business volumes. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $518 million, principally resulting from purchases of investments of $768 million, primarily in various corporate and government debt securities (see Note 5), as well as from purchases of property and equipment of $368 million. This was partially offset by proceeds from the sale and leaseback transaction of $601 million and proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments of $32 million. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $1.0 billion, principally resulting from the acquisition of Getaroom of $1.2 billion and purchases of property and equipment of $304 million. This was partially offset by proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments of $508 million, net of purchases of $17 million. Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $4.9 billion, almost entirely resulting from payments for the repurchase of common stock of $6.6 billion and payments on the maturity of debt of $1.9 billion. This was partially offset by the proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $3.6 billion. Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $1.2 billion, almost entirely resulting from payments on the redemption and conversion of debt of $3.1 billion and payments for the repurchase of common stock of $163 million, partially offset by the proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $2.0 billion. Year Ended December 31, 2021 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020 For a comparison of our cash flow activities for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2022. Contingencies For information related to the French and other tax assessments and other tax matters, see Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item IA, Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities ." For information related to the pension matter and our other contingent liabilities, see Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 56