Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the adjustments resulting from the adoption of new accounting standards in the fourth quarter of 2015. Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 (3)(4) 2013 (3)(4) 2012 (3)(4) 2011 (3)(4) (In thousands, except per share amounts) Total revenues $ 9,223,987 $ 8,441,971 $ 6,793,306 $ 5,260,956 $ 4,355,610 Cost of revenues 632,180 857,841 1,077,420 1,177,275 1,275,730 Gross profit 8,591,807 7,584,130 5,715,886 4,083,681 3,079,880 Total operating expenses 5,332,900 4,510,818 3,303,472 2,253,888 1,680,958 Operating income 3,258,907 3,073,312 2,412,414 1,829,793 1,398,922 Total other expense 130,587 83,864 115,877 67,924 31,128 Income tax expense 576,960 567,695 403,739 337,832 308,663 Net income 2,551,360 2,421,753 1,892,798 1,424,037 1,059,131 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (1) 135 4,471 2,760 Net income applicable to common stockholders 2,551,360 2,421,753 1,892,663 1,419,566 1,056,371 Net income applicable to common stockholders per basic common share 50.09 46.30 37.17 28.48 21.27 Net income applicable to common stockholders per diluted share 49.45 45.67 36.11 27.66 20.63 Total assets (3)(4) 17,420,575 14,770,977 10,428,543 6,547,771 3,964,165 Long-term obligations, redeemable noncontrolling interests (2)(3)(4) 7,185,796 4,862,730 2,289,039 1,710,194 784,417 Total liabilities (3)(4) 8,625,106 6,203,954 3,510,281 2,435,854 1,185,465 Total stockholders' equity 8,795,469 8,566,694 6,909,729 3,896,975 2,574,295 (1) Redeemable noncontrolling interests relates to the Company's purchase of rentalcars.com in May 2010. In April 2011, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2011, the redeemable noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com were reduced from 24.4% to 19.0%. In April 2012, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2012, the redeemable noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com were reduced from 19.0% to 12.7%. In April 2013, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2013, the Company purchased the remaining outstanding shares underlying the redeemable noncontrolling interests. (2) Includes convertible debt which is classified as a current liability from 2011 through 2014. (3) Includes adjustments to current and noncurrent deferred taxes as a result of the early adoption of the accounting update issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in November 2015, which requires companies to classify all deferred tax assets and liabilities as noncurrent on the balance sheet. The adoption of this accounting update in the fourth quarter of 2015 resulted in decreases of $143.7 million, $1.5 million and $1.2 million at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and an increase of $0.6 million at December 31, 2011, in both total assets and total liabilities. 38 The impact of these adjustments to long-term obligations resulted in decreases of $142.4 million, $1.4 million, $0.4 million at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and an increase of $3.3 million at December 31, 2011. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on this new accounting update. (4) Includes reclassifications related to unamortized debt issuance costs as a result of the early adoption of the accounting update issued by FASB in April 2015, which requires debt issuance costs to be presented in the balance sheets as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. The adoption of this accounting update in the fourth quarter of 2015 resulted in decreases of $25.9 million, $14.5 million, $20.8 million and $7.1 million at December 31, 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, in total assets, long-term obligations and total liabilities. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on this new accounting update. 39 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," this discussion contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and constant currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-period financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the prior-period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-period monthly average exchange rates. Overview We help people experience the world by providing consumers, travel service providers and restaurants with leading travel and restaurant reservation and related services. Through our online travel companies ("OTCs"), we connect consumers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world. We are the leader in the worldwide online accommodation reservation market based on room nights booked. We offer consumers a broad array of accommodation reservations (including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels, apartments, vacation rentals and other properties) through our Booking.com, priceline.com and agoda.com brands. Our priceline.com brand also offers consumers reservations for rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages and cruises. We offer rental car reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com. We also allow consumers to easily compare airline ticket, hotel reservation and rental car reservation information from hundreds of travel websites at once through KAYAK. We provide restaurants with reservation management services and consumers with the ability to make restaurant reservations at participating restaurants through OpenTable, a leading provider of online restaurant reservations. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands, including Booking.com, priceline.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, rentalcars.com, OpenTable and various smaller brands, collectively as "The Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include five other primary, independently operated brands: Booking.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, rentalcars.com and OpenTable. Our principal goal is to help people experience the world by serving both consumers and our travel service provider and restaurant partners with worldwide leadership in online reservation and related services. Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com and the results of the internationally-based websites of KAYAK and OpenTable (in each case regardless of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while making a reservation or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant). During the year ended December 31, 2015 , our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 88% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers, net of cancellations), approximately 86% of our consolidated gross profit and approximately 94% of our consolidated operating income. A significant majority of our gross profit is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more geographic information. We derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car, airline ticket and vacation package reservation services; Beginning on May 21, 2013, advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; Beginning on July 24, 2014, revenues recognized by OpenTable, which consist of reservation revenues (reservation fees paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service), subscription fees for restaurant reservation management services and other revenues; and Damage excess waiver fees, travel insurance fees and global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees, in each case related to certain of our travel services. 40 Our priceline.com brand offers merchant Name Your Own Price opaque travel services, which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue. All of our other services are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between Name Your Own Price travel services and other services. Gross profit reflects the commission or net margin earned for all of our services. Consequently, gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business because, in contrast to our revenues, it is not affected by the different methods of recording revenue and cost of revenue between our Name Your Own Price travel reservation services and our other services. Trends Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices, the high growth of travel overall in emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America, and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build accommodation supply, content and distribution and to improve the consumer experience on our websites and mobile apps. These year-over-year growth rates have generally decelerated in recent years. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2015 , our accommodation room night reservation growth was 25% , a deceleration from 28% in 2014, 37% in 2013 and 40% in 2012. Given the size of our hotel reservation business, we expect that our year-over-year growth rates will continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate. The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet use and e-commerce activity of international consumers have trailed that of consumers in the United States. However, international consumers are increasingly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. We expect that over the long term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. Our growth has primarily been generated by our worldwide accommodation reservation service brand, Booking.com, which is our most significant brand, and has been due, in part, to the availability of a large and growing number of directly bookable properties through Booking.com. Booking.com included over 850,000 properties on its website as of February 15, 2016, which included approximately 390,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website), and compares to over 635,000 properties (including approximately 269,000 vacation rental properties) a year ago. In September 2015, Booking.com changed the way it calculates property counts. As a result, properties that are contracted with Booking.com but temporarily do not have availability on Booking.com (for example properties that are closed during their off-peak season or for renovations) will remain included in Booking.com's property counts during these temporary periods. Booking.com previously excluded properties that were temporarily unavailable for booking. We believe that continuously including them provides a more consistent and useful property count. We believe that continuing to expand the number and variety of accommodations available through our services, in particular Booking.com, will help us to continue to grow our accommodation reservation business. As our international business represents the substantial majority of our financial results, we expect our operating results and other financial metrics to continue to be largely driven by international performance. For example, certain markets in which we operate that are in earlier stages of development have lower operating margins compared to more mature markets, which could have a negative impact on our overall margins as these markets increase in size over time. Also, we intend to continue to invest in adding accommodations available for reservation on our websites, including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels and vacation rentals. Vacation rentals generally consist of, among others, properties categorized as single-unit and multi-unit villas, apartments, "aparthotels" (which are apartments with a front desk and cleaning service) and chalets and are generally self-catered (i.e., include a kitchen), directly bookable properties. The approximately 390,000 vacation rental properties on Booking.com's website as of February 15, 2016 (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com's website) represent approximately 1.9 million instantly bookable and confirmable units within these properties. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms, lower average daily rates ("ADRs") or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts), and therefore may also negatively impact our margins. For example, because a vacation rental is either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, vacation rental properties represent more limited booking 41 opportunities than non-vacation rental properties, which generally have more units to rent per property. Our non-hotel accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons, weather or other factors. As we increase our non-hotel accommodation business, these different market characteristics could negatively impact our profit margins; and, to the extent these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our websites, we expect that our gross bookings growth rate and property growth rate will continue to diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of non-hotel accommodations increases, we expect that the number of reservations per property will likely continue to decrease. Concerns persist about the outlook for the global economy in general, including the European Union, with recent declines in broad Eurozone economic indicators raising fears about the pace of economic growth and the risk of deflation. In addition, many governments around the world, including the U.S. government and certain European governments, continue to operate at large financial deficits, resulting in high levels of sovereign debt in such countries. Greece, Ireland, Portugal and certain other European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt at times have had difficulty refinancing their debt. Failure to reach political consensus regarding workable solutions to these issues has resulted in a high level of uncertainty regarding the future economic outlook. This uncertainty, as well as concern over governmental austerity measures including higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates and cancellation rates and weaker trends in hotel ADRs across many regions of the world, particularly in those European countries that appear to be most affected by economic uncertainties. We believe that these business trends are likely impacted by weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns. Similarly, while China's economy experienced rapid growth over the past 20 years, growth of the Chinese economy slowed in 2015 and concerns about its future growth have had an adverse impact on financial markets, currency exchange rates and other economies. Disruptions in the economies of such countries could cause, contribute to or be indicative of deteriorating macro-economic conditions, which in turn could negatively affect travel to or from such countries or the travel industry in general and therefore have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Greece, in particular, has recently faced and continues to face significant economic challenges, in large part due to its high levels of sovereign debt and difficulties refinancing that debt. This may increase the likelihood that Greece, and in turn other countries, could exit the European Union, which could lead to added economic uncertainty and further devaluation or eventual abandonment of the Euro common currency. These and other macro-economic uncertainties, such as sovereign default risk becoming more widespread, declining oil prices and geopolitical tensions, have led to significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the U.S. Dollar and other currencies. In March 2015, the European Central Bank, in an effort to stimulate the European economy, launched a quantitative easing program to purchase public debt. As noted earlier, our international business represents a substantial majority of our financial results. Therefore, because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international businesses are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. The U.S. Dollar significantly strengthened against the Euro during 2014, moving from an exchange rate of 1.38 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of January 1, 2014 to 1.21 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of December 31, 2014. The U.S. Dollar strengthened further in 2015 to an exchange rate of 1.09 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of December 31, 2015 . The U.S. Dollar also strengthened significantly during this time frame as compared to many other currencies. As a result, our foreign currency denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses and net income have been negatively impacted as expressed in U.S. Dollars. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins are not significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. The aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated 2022 Notes, 2024 Notes and 2027 Notes, and accrued interest thereon, provide a natural hedge of the net assets of certain of our Euro functional currency subsidiaries. Gross profit from our international operations grew year-over-year on a constant currency basis by approximately 28% for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , but, as a result of the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, grew 11.6% for the year ended December 31, 2015 , as reported in U.S. Dollars. We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results. However, such derivative instruments are short term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact our gross bookings, revenues or gross profit (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). Significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, stock markets and oil prices can also impact consumer travel behavior. Consumers traveling from a country whose currency has weakened against other currencies may book lower ADR accommodations, choose to shorten or cancel their international travel plans or choose to travel domestically rather than internationally, any of which could adversely affect our gross bookings, revenues and results of operations, in particular when expressed in U.S. Dollars. For example, the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro in 2015 resulted in it 42 becoming more expensive for Europeans to travel to the United States. Similarly, dramatic depreciation of the Russian Ruble in 2014 and 2015 resulted in it becoming more expensive for Russians to travel to Europe and most other non-Ruble destinations. In addition, although lower oil prices may lead to increased travel activity as consumers have more discretionary funds and airline fares decrease, recent declines in oil prices and stock market volatility may be indicative of broader macro-economic weakness, which in turn could negatively affect the travel industry and our business. The uncertainty of macro-economic factors, the volatility in foreign exchange rates and their impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. We compete with both online and traditional travel and restaurant reservation and related services. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, a trend we expect to continue, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. We currently, or may potentially in the future, compete with a variety of companies, including: online travel reservation services such as those owned by Expedia (including Travelocity and Orbitz), Ctrip (in which we hold a minority interest), Rakuten, eDreams ODIGEO and Jalan; online accommodation search and/or reservation services, such as Airbnb and HomeAway (which is owned by Expedia), currently focused on vacation rental properties and other non-hotel accommodations, including individually owned properties; large online companies, including search, social networking and marketplace companies such as Google, Facebook, Alibaba and Groupon; traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators, such as Carlson Wagonlit, American Express, Thomas Cook and Tui Travel, as well as thousands of individual travel agencies around the world; travel service providers such as accommodation providers, rental car companies and airlines; online travel search and price comparison services (generally referred to as "meta-search" services), such as TripAdvisor, trivago (in which Expedia holds a majority ownership interest), Qunar (which is controlled by Ctrip) and HotelsCombined; online restaurant reservation services, such as TripAdvisor's LaFourchette, Yelp's SeatMe and Zomato; and companies offering new rental car business models or car- or ride-sharing services that affect demand for rental cars, some of which have developed innovative technologies to improve efficiency of point-to-point transportation and extensively utilize mobile platforms, such as Uber, Lyft and Zipcar. For more detail regarding the competitive trends and risks we face, see Part I Item 1 Business - "Competition" and Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. " and " Consumer adoption and use of mobile devices create new challenges and may enable device companies such as Apple to compete directly with us. " During 2015, Expedia acquired Travelocity, Orbitz and HomeAway. To the extent these acquisitions enhance Expedia's ability to compete with us, in particular in the United States, which is Expedia's, Travelocity's, Orbitz's and HomeAway's largest market, our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected. Widespread adoption of mobile devices, such as the iPhone, Android-enabled smart phones and tablets such as the iPad, coupled with the web browsing functionality and development of thousands of useful "apps" available on these devices, is driving substantial online traffic and commerce to mobile platforms. We have experienced a significant shift of business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Our major competitors and certain new market entrants are offering mobile apps for travel products and other mobile functionality, including proprietary last-minute discounts for accommodation reservations. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. The gross profit earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. Further, given the device sizes and technical limitations of tablets and smart phones, mobile consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps 43 from multiple companies providing a similar service and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their mobile travel and restaurant research and reservation activity. As a result, the consumer experience with mobile apps as well as brand recognition and loyalty are likely to become increasingly important. Our mobile offerings have received generally strong reviews and are driving a material and increasing share of our business. We believe that mobile bookings present an opportunity for growth and are necessary to maintain and grow our business as consumers increasingly turn to mobile devices instead of a personal computer. If we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly and differentiated mobile offerings and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our mobile offerings are not used by consumers, we could lose market share to existing competitors or new entrants and our business, future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we have observed an increase in promotional pricing to closed user groups (such as loyalty program participants or consumers with registered accounts), including through mobile apps. If we are not as effective as our competitors in offering discounted prices to closed user groups or if we are unable to entice members of our competitors' closed user groups to use our services, our ability to grow and compete could be harmed. If we need to fund discounts out of our gross profit, our profitability could be adversely affected. Further, growth in discounted closed user group retail prices for hotel rooms lessens the price difference for members of closed user groups between a retail hotel reservation and an opaque hotel reservation, which we believe has led to fewer consumers using our opaque hotel reservation services. In addition, hotels typically make available only a limited number of hotel rooms for opaque services like those of our priceline.com business, especially during periods of high occupancy. Recent high hotel occupancy levels in the United States (which have had an adverse impact on our access to hotel rooms for our opaque hotel reservation services) and, we believe, the increased use by consumers of discounted closed user group retail prices for hotel rooms have negatively affected our opaque hotel reservation gross profit. We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotional campaigns. Both our online and offline advertising expense has increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue. During 2015, our total online advertising expense was approximately $2.8 billion , primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services and affiliate marketing to generate traffic to our websites. We also invested approximately $215 million in offline advertising during that period. We intend to continue a strategy of aggressively promoting brand awareness, primarily through online means although we also intend to increase our offline advertising efforts, including by expanding offline campaigns into additional markets. For example, building on its first offline advertising campaign, which it launched in the United States in 2013, Booking.com has begun offline advertising campaigns in other markets, including Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Brazil and Japan. We have observed increased offline advertising by OTCs, meta-search services and travel service providers, particularly in North America, South America and Europe, which may make our offline advertising efforts more expensive and less effective. Online advertising efficiency, expressed as online advertising expense as a percentage of gross profit, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and the extent to which consumers come directly to our websites or mobile apps for bookings. For example, competition for desired rankings in search results and/or a decline in ad clicks by consumers could increase our costs-per-click and reduce our online advertising efficiency. From 2011 to 2013, our online advertising expense grew faster than our gross profit due to (1) year-over-year declines in online advertising returns on investment ("ROIs") and (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group as our international brands grew faster than our U.S. brands and spent a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. In 2014, these long-term trends continued, but were more than offset by the inclusion of KAYAK and OpenTable because they spend a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other brands. Also, our consolidated results exclude intercompany advertising by our brands on KAYAK since our acquisition of KAYAK in May 2013. In 2015, online advertising efficiency declined compared to the prior year, mainly due to lower ROIs. If Google changes how it presents travel search results or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results in a manner that is competitively disadvantageous to us, whether to support its own travel-related services or otherwise, our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites could be harmed. See Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " We rely on online advertising channels to enhance our brand awareness and to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in Internet search engine algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " The national competition authorities ("NCAs") of many governments have begun investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. Various NCAs, including those in France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Sweden, Ireland and Switzerland, opened investigations of Booking.com's contractual parity arrangements with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions, and a number of other NCAs are looking at these issues. It is uncertain how these issues will finally be resolved. For example, the French, Italian and Swedish NCAs accepted commitments offered by Booking.com to resolve and close their investigations and Booking.com 44 voluntarily implemented these commitments throughout the European Economic Area and Switzerland on July 1, 2015, which resolved the concerns of various other countries. However, in August 2015 France adopted legislation known as the "Macron Law" making price parity agreements illegal, including those that had been approved by the French NCA. For more information on these investigations and their potential effects on our business, see Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " As the size of our business grows, we may become increasingly subject to the scrutiny of anti-trust and competition regulators. " To the extent that regulatory authorities impose fines or require changes to our business practices or to those currently common to the industry or legislation is enacted with a similar effect, our business, competitive position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Negative publicity regarding any such investigations could adversely affect our brand and therefore our market share and results of operations. Seasonality A meaningful amount of our gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as the expense is incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which reservations are booked. However, we generally do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs. As a result, we have historically experienced our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation checkouts for the year for our European and North American businesses. We experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters. As these businesses have generally been growing faster than our European and North American businesses, our operating results for the fourth quarter of the year have become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results. In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2013 our second quarter year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were adversely affected by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, as it did in 2012. Conversely, our second quarter 2014 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were favorably impacted by Easter falling in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2013. Similarly to 2013, in 2016 Easter will fall in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, and will therefore likely have a positive effect on our first quarter 2016 year-over-year growth rates and a negative effect on our second quarter 2016 year-over-year growth rates as compared to the same periods in 2015 when Easter fell in the second quarter. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable advertising expense. In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters. Other Factors We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel-related services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods and volcanic eruptions, travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, Zika, Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu, SARS and MERS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities or travel-related accidents, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. For example, our business and operations were negatively impacted by the terror attacks in Paris in November 2015; Hurricane Sandy, which disrupted travel in the northeastern United States in late 2012; a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency in Japan in 2011; severe flooding in Thailand in October 2011; and disruptive civil unrest in Thailand in 2010 and 2014. In addition, MERS had an adverse impact on our business in northeast Asia in 2015. Future terrorist attacks, natural disasters, health concerns or civil or political unrest could further disrupt our business and operations. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. For example, we are investing in growth initiatives at OpenTable, including international expansion, and in building our BookingSuite partner-facing software services platform. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to grow gross profit and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain gross profit growth and profitability. 45 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Our significant accounting policies and estimates are more fully described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting policies and estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. In applying those policies, our management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the items described below. Those estimates are based on, among other things, historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies that involve significant estimates and judgments of management include the following: Stock-Based Compensation. We record stock-based compensation expense for equity-based awards over the recipient's service period based upon the grant date fair value of the award. A number of our equity awards have performance targets (a performance "contingency") which, if satisfied, can increase the number of shares issued to the recipients at the end of the performance period or, in certain instances, if not satisfied, reduce the number of shares issued to the recipients, sometimes to zero, at the end of the performance period. The performance periods for our performance based equity awards are typically three years. We record stock-based compensation expense for these performance-based awards based upon our estimate of the probable outcome at the end of the performance period (i.e., the estimated performance against the performance targets). We periodically adjust the cumulative stock-based compensation recorded when the probable outcome for these performance-based awards is updated based upon changes in actual and forecasted operating results. Stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 includes charges amounting to $22.6 million , $20.6 million and $24.1 million , respectively, representing the impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome of unvested performance share units. Our actual performance against the performance targets could differ materially from our estimates. We record stock-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures. In determining the estimated forfeiture rates, we periodically review actual forfeitures. To the extent that actual forfeiture rates differ from current estimates, such amounts are recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which the estimate is revised. Valuation of Goodwill, Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles . The application of the purchase method of accounting for business combinations requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Our estimates of the fair value are based upon assumptions that we believe are reasonable and, when we deem appropriate, include assistance from a third party valuation firm. The purchase price consideration is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price consideration over the net of the amounts allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination as of the acquisition date. We review goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. As of September 30, 2015, we performed a quantitative test for all of our reporting units using standard valuation techniques and concluded that there was no impairment of goodwill. A substantial portion of our intangibles and goodwill relates to our acquisitions of OpenTable in July 2014 and KAYAK in May 2013. Other than OpenTable, the fair values of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values as of September 30, 2015. Since the annual impairment test in September 2015, there have been no events or changes in circumstances to indicate a potential impairment. As of September 30, 2015, OpenTables carrying value was $2.5 billion , of which $1.5 billion relates to goodwill. The fair value of OpenTable slightly exceeded its carrying value as of September 30, 2015. OpenTables fair value was determined using a combination of standard valuation techniques, including an income approach (discounted cash flows) and market approaches (EBITDA multiples of comparable 46 publicly-traded companies and for precedent transactions). We also performed sensitivity analysis, calculating estimated fair values using different rates for the weighted-average cost of capital in the income approach and different EBITDA multiples in our market approach. OpenTables estimated fair value remained in excess of its carrying value. Since the acquisition, we have invested, and intend to continue to invest, in OpenTable to accelerate its global expansion, increase the value offered to its restaurant partners and enhance the end-to-end experience for consumers across desktop and mobile devices. As expected, these investments resulted in lower OpenTable post-acquisition EBITDA compared to pre-acquisition levels. In addition, the time required to execute these investments has exceeded our initial expectations. Despite the delays, we continue to believe that these investments will result in significant future earnings. Future events and changing market conditions may, however, lead us to reevaluate the assumptions we have used to test for goodwill impairment, including key assumptions regarding OpenTable's expected growth rates and operating margins, as well as other key assumptions with respect to matters outside of our control, such as discount rates, currency exchange rates and market EBITDA comparables. If OpenTables investments, in particular its investments in its global expansion efforts, are not successful, there is a substantial likelihood that we would recognize a related goodwill impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, we evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate that the carrying amounts of long-lived assets and intangibles may be impaired. The significant factors that are considered that could trigger an impairment review include changes in business strategies, market conditions, or the manner of use of an asset; under performance relative to historical or expected future operating results; and negative industry or economic trends. In evaluating an asset for possible impairment, management estimates that asset's future undiscounted cash flows to measure whether the carrying value of the asset is recoverable. If it is determined that the asset is not recoverable, we measure the impairment based upon the fair value of the asset compared to its carrying value. The fair value represents the projected discounted cash flows of the asset over its remaining life. Income Taxes. We determine our tax expense based on our income and statutory tax rates applicable in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Due to the complex nature of tax legislation and frequent changes with such associated legislation, significant judgment is required in computing our tax expense and determining our tax positions. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of temporary differences, and tax planning strategies and record valuation allowances as required. We are subject to ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. To date, we have been audited in several taxing jurisdictions with no significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Although we believe that our tax filing positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Accordingly, we may incur additional tax expense based upon our assessment of the more likely than not outcomes or we may adjust previously recorded tax expense to reflect examination results. We intend to indefinitely reinvest our foreign undistributed earnings in our non-U.S. operations. At December 31, 2015 and 2014 , we had approximately $9.9 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively, of cumulative undistributed international earnings. It is not practicable to determine the U.S. federal income tax liability that would be payable if such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested. Recent Accounting Pronouncements: Classification of Deferred Taxes and Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new accounting update which requires companies to classify all deferred tax assets and liabilities as noncurrent on the balance sheet instead of separating deferred taxes into current and noncurrent amounts. This update is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption of this update is permitted and an entity may choose to adopt this update on either a prospective or retrospective basis. We adopted this accounting update in the fourth quarter of 2015 and applied it retrospectively to prior periods. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of adopting this standard. In April 2015, the FASB issued a new accounting update which changes the presentation of debt issuance costs in our financial statements. Under this new guidance, debt issuance costs, excluding costs associated with a revolving credit facility, 47 will be presented in our balance sheets as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. This accounting change is consistent with the current presentation under U.S. GAAP for debt discounts and it also converges the guidance under U.S. GAAP with that in the International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"). Debt issuance costs will reduce the proceeds from debt borrowings in our cash flow statement instead of being presented as a separate line in the financing section of that statement. Amortization of debt issuance costs will continue to be reported as interest expense in our income statement. This accounting update does not affect the current accounting guidance for the recognition and measurement of debt issuance costs. This update is effective for public business entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015. Early adoption is allowed for all entities for financial statements that have not been previously issued. We adopted this accounting update in the fourth quarter of 2015 and applied it retrospectively to prior periods. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of adopting this standard. Other Recent Accounting Pronouncements In January 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting update which amends the guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments. Although the accounting update retains many current requirements, it significantly revises accounting related to (1) the classification and measurement of investments in equity securities and (2) the presentation of certain fair value changes for financial liabilities measured at fair value. The accounting update also amends certain fair value disclosures of financial instruments and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset related to available-for-sale debt securities in combination with the entitys evaluation of their other deferred tax assets. The update requires entities to carry all investments in equity securities, including other ownership interests such as partnerships, unincorporated joint ventures and limited liability companies at fair value, with fair value changes recognized through net income. This requirement does not apply to investments that qualify for equity method accounting, investments that result in consolidation of the investee or investments in which the entity has elected the practicability exception to fair value measurement. Under current U.S. GAAP, our available-for-sale investments in equity securities with readily identifiable market value are remeasured to fair value each reporting period with changes in fair value recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). However, under the new accounting literature, fair value adjustments will be recognized through net income and could vary significantly quarter to quarter. For the investments currently accounted for under the cost method, an entity can elect to measure its investments, which do not have a readily determinable fair value, at cost less impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. Additionally, this accounting update will simplify the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values by requiring a qualitative assessment to identify impairment. When a qualitative assessment indicates that impairment exists, an entity is required to measure the investment at fair value. In addition, this accounting update eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is currently required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost in the balance sheet. This update is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption, although allowed in certain circumstances, is not applicable to us. In September 2015, the FASB issued a new accounting update which simplifies the accounting for measurement-period adjustments to provisional amounts recognized in a business combination. Under this new guidance, an acquirer must recognize these adjustments in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. The new accounting guidance also requires an acquirer to present separately on the face of the income statement, or disclose in the notes, the amount recorded in current-period earnings by line item that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustment to provision amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date. This update is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted for financial statements that have not been issued. We adopted this new accounting standard in the fourth quarter of 2015 and this accounting standard did not have an impact to our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued a new accounting update which requires an entity that enters into a cloud computing arrangement to determine if the arrangement contains a software license. The accounting update cites software as a service, platform as a service, infrastructure as a service and other similar hosting arrangements as examples of cloud computing arrangements. A software license arrangement exists if both of the following criteria are met: (1) the customer has a contractual right to take possession of the underlying software without significant penalty and (2) it is feasible for the customer to run the software on their own hardware or to contract with another party unrelated to the vendor to run the software. If the arrangement meets both of these criteria, the customer would need to identify what portion of the cost relates to purchasing the software and what portion relates to paying for the service of hosting the software. The purchased software would be accounted for using the internal-use software guidance and the service costs would be accounted for as an operating expense. If the arrangement does not meet both of the criteria, the cost is an operating expense for a service contract. The guidance in this update does not change the accounting for a service contract. The update is effective for public business entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015. Early adoption is allowed for all 48 entities. We adopted this accounting update in the fourth quarter of 2015 and this accounting update did not have an impact to our consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") issued a new accounting standard on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers that is designed to create greater comparability for financial statement users across industries and jurisdictions. The core principle of the standard is that an "entity recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services." Additionally, the new guidance specified the accounting for some costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer. The new standard will also require enhanced disclosures. The accounting standard was initially effective for public entities for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016. In July 2015, the FASB agreed to defer the effective date of the new revenue standard to annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 with early adoption permitted as of the original effective date. We are currently evaluating the impact to our consolidated financial statements of adopting this new guidance. In April 2014, the FASB issued an accounting update which amended the definition of a discontinued operation. The new definition limits discontinued operations reporting to disposals of components of an entity that represent strategic shifts that have or will have a major effect on an entity's operations and financial results. The new definition includes an acquired business that is classified as held for sale at the date of acquisition. The accounting update requires new disclosures of both discontinued operations and a disposal of an individually significant component of an entity. The accounting update is effective for annual and interim periods beginning on or after December 15, 2014. We adopted this update in the first quarter of 2015 and this accounting update did not have an impact to our consolidated financial statements. 49 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2015 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2014 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units booked by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers, net of cancellations, and is widely used in the travel business. International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com businesses and U.S. gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our priceline.com business, in each case regardless of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while making a reservation or the location of the travel service provider. We follow a similar approach for reporting the international and U.S. revenue and gross profit of those businesses. Gross bookings resulting from accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our international and U.S. operations for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2015 2014 Change International $ 48,971 $ 43,639 12.2 % U.S. 6,557 6,661 (1.6 )% Total $ 55,528 $ 50,300 10.4 % Gross bookings increased by 10.4% for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 25% ), principally due to growth of 24.9% in accommodation room night reservations, 2% growth on a constant currency basis in ADRs and growth of 15.6% in rental car day reservations, partially offset by the impact foreign exchange rate fluctuations. International gross bookings grew by 12.2% for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 28% ). International gross bookings growth on a constant currency basis was primarily attributable to growth in accommodation room night reservations for our Booking.com and agoda.com businesses, as well as international ADR growth on a constant currency basis and growth in rental car day reservations for our rentalcars.com business. The U.S. Dollar significantly strengthened against the Euro during 2015, moving from an exchange rate of 1.21 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of January 1, 2015 to 1.09 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of December 31, 2015. The U.S. Dollar has also strengthened against many other currencies since January 1, 2015. We therefore believe that unit growth rates and total gross bookings, international gross bookings and gross profit growth on a constant currency basis, excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. U.S. gross bookings decreased by 1.6% for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , primarily due to declines in gross bookings by priceline.com's retail airline ticket service (due to lower airfares), Name Your Own Price reservation services and vacation package reservation service, partially offset by increases in gross bookings by priceline.com's retail hotel and rental car reservation services and priceline.com's Express Deals hotel reservation service. Travel service providers typically provide a limited amount of availability to opaque services like those of priceline.com, especially during periods of healthy travel demand. As a result, the recent healthy travel environment (which has had an adverse impact on our access to opaque availability) and the increased use by consumers of discounted closed user group prices for hotel rooms have negatively affected our opaque reservation services. 50 Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2015 2014 Change Agency $ 47,969 $ 42,892 11.8 % Merchant 7,559 7,409 2.0 % Total $ 55,528 $ 50,300 10.4 % Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we are the merchant of record. Agency gross bookings increased 11.8% for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , primarily due to growth in gross bookings from Booking.com agency accommodation room night reservations, as well as growth in gross bookings by priceline.com and rentalcars.com agency retail rental car reservation services, and priceline.com and agoda.com agency retail hotel reservation services, partially offset by lower retail airfares. Merchant gross bookings increased 2.0% for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , primarily due to increases in gross bookings by merchant retail hotel reservation services for Booking.com and priceline.com, rentalcars.com's rental car reservation service, and priceline.com's Express Deals hotel reservation service as well as the inclusion of our Rocketmiles hotel reservation service since its acquisition in February 2015. These increases were partially offset by declines in gross bookings by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services and the impact of the stronger U.S. Dollar on agoda.com's merchant retail hotel reservation service. The U.S. Dollar was significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies throughout 2015 compared to 2014, which significantly adversely affected the growth of our agency and merchant gross bookings, expressed in U.S. Dollars. Accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our services for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2015 2014 Change Room Nights 432.3 346.0 24.9 % Rental Car Days 59.9 51.8 15.6 % Airline Tickets 7.7 7.8 (1.6 )% Accommodation room night reservations increased by 24.9% for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , due to an increase in Booking.com, agoda.com and priceline.com accommodation room night reservations and the inclusion of Rocketmiles accommodation room night reservations since its acquisition in February 2015. Booking.com included over 850,000 properties on its website as of February 15, 2016, which included approximately 390,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website), compared to over 635,000 properties (including approximately 269,000 vacation rental properties) a year ago. In September 2015, Booking.com changed the way it calculates property counts. As a result, properties that are contracted with Booking.com but temporarily do not have availability on Booking.com (for example properties that are closed during their off-peak season or for renovations) will remain included in Booking.com's property counts during these temporary periods. Booking.com previously excluded properties that were temporarily unavailable for booking. We believe that continuously including them provides a more consistent and useful property count. Rental car day reservations increased by 15.6% for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , due to an increase in price-disclosed rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and priceline.com, partially offset by a decline in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price rental car day reservations. Airline ticket reservations decreased by 1.6% for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , due to a decline in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservations. 51 Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, GDS reservation booking fees related to certain travel services, travel insurance fees and customer processing fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Substantially all of the revenue for Booking.com is agency revenue comprised of travel commissions. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer's credit card for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction net revenues (i.e., to the extent applicable, the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged to us by travel service providers) in connection with (a) the accommodation reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel reservation services at agoda.com, priceline.com and Booking.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at rentalcars.com and Express Deals reservation services at priceline.com; (2) transaction revenues representing the price of Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservations and vacation packages charged to a customer (with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues); (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with (a) priceline.com's Express Deals and Name Your Own Price reservation services and (b) merchant retail hotel reservation services at priceline.com and agoda.com; and (4) ancillary fees, including damage excess waiver and travel insurance fees and GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for (a) sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers and (b) advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; (2) revenues earned by OpenTable for (a) reservation fees (reservation fees paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees earned by OpenTable for restaurant reservation management services; (3) revenues earned by priceline.com for advertising on its websites; and (4) revenues generated by Booking.com's BookingSuite branded accommodation marketing and business analytics services. Revenue from KAYAK is net of intercompany revenues earned by KAYAK from other Priceline Group brands. Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Agency Revenues $ 6,527,898 $ 5,845,802 11.7 % Merchant Revenues 2,082,973 2,186,054 (4.7 )% Advertising and Other Revenues 613,116 410,115 49.5 % Total Revenues $ 9,223,987 $ 8,441,971 9.3 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased 11.7% compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com, the agency rental car businesses of rentalcars.com and priceline.com and the agency hotel businesses of priceline.com and agoda.com. The U.S. Dollar was significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies throughout 2015 compared to 2014 , which significantly adversely affected the growth of our agency revenues, expressed in U.S. Dollars. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 decreased 4.7% compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , primarily due to decreases in revenues from priceline.com's Name Your Own Price hotel, airline ticket and rental car reservation services, partially offset by increases in our merchant price-disclosed hotel and rental car businesses. Our priceline.com Name Your Own Price reservation services, which declined year-over-year, are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues. Our other merchant revenues, which in total grew year-over-year, are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs. As a result, changes in Name Your Own Price reservation revenue disproportionately affect merchant revenues as compared to our other merchant revenues. We therefore 52 believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. The U.S. Dollar was significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies throughout 2015 compared to 2014 , which significantly adversely affected the growth of our merchant revenues, expressed in U.S. Dollars. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2015 consisted primarily of advertising revenues, restaurant reservation revenues and subscription revenues for restaurant reservation management services. Advertising and other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased 49.5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , primarily as a result of the inclusion of a full year of OpenTable revenues in 2015 compared to only a partial year's results in 2014, as well as growth in our KAYAK business. Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Cost of Revenues $ 632,180 $ 857,841 (26.3 )% For the year ended December 31, 2015 , cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost paid to travel service providers for priceline.com's Name Your Own Price and vacation package reservation services, net of applicable taxes and charges; and (2) fees paid to third parties by KAYAK and priceline.com to return travel itinerary information for consumer search queries. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 decreased by 26.3% , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , primarily due to a decrease in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , cost of revenue benefited from a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the first quarter of 2015 related to a favorable ruling in the State of Hawaii. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015 , we recognized a net reduction in cost of revenue in the third quarter of 2015 of $13.7 million related to travel transaction taxes, principally due to a cash refund from the State of Hawaii for the aforementioned favorable ruling. Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Agency revenues principally consist of travel commissions on accommodation reservations. Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Gross Profit $ 8,591,807 $ 7,584,130 13.3 % Gross Margin 93.1 % 89.8 % Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased by 13.3% compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 27% ), primarily as a result of the increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , because our revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the year ended December 31, 2015 these revenues represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the year ended December 31, 2014 . Our price-disclosed reservation services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs, have been growing faster than priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure for evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $7.4 billion of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to $6.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased by 11.6% for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 28% ). Gross profit attributable to our U.S. businesses increased 53 by 25.0% for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 . Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 was positively impacted by the inclusion of OpenTable, which benefited year-over-year comparisons through the anniversary of the acquisition on July 24, 2015. In addition, gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 was positively impacted by a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the first quarter of 2015 related to a favorable ruling in the State of Hawaii. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 was also positively impacted by a net reduction in cost of revenue in the third quarter of 2015 of $13.7 million related to travel transaction taxes, principally due to a cash refund from the State of Hawaii for the aforementioned favorable ruling. The U.S. Dollar was significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies throughout 2015 compared to 2014. At these exchange rates, the growth of our total and international gross bookings, expressed in U.S. Dollars, was significantly adversely impacted in 2015. Operating Expenses Advertising Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Online Advertising $ 2,797,237 $ 2,360,221 18.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 32.6 % 31.1 % Offline Advertising $ 214,685 $ 231,309 (7.2 )% % of Total Gross Profit 2.5 % 3.0 % Online advertising expenses consist primarily of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; and (4) banner, pop-up and other Internet and mobile advertisements. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , online advertising expenses increased 18.5% , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , primarily due to increased spending on online performance marketing to generate increased gross bookings. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 benefited from the inclusion of OpenTable because OpenTable spends a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising relative to our other brands. In addition, the share of our business coming directly to our websites with no associated online advertising expense increased during the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 . These favorable impacts were more than offset for the year ended December 31, 2015 by a year-over-year decline in advertising ROIs. Offline advertising expenses are primarily related to our Booking.com, KAYAK and priceline.com businesses and primarily consist of television advertising. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , offline advertising decreased 7.2% compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , primarily due to lower spending at KAYAK and, to a lesser extent, priceline.com. Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Sales and Marketing $ 353,221 $ 310,910 13.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.1 % 4.1 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) customer relations costs; (4) public relations costs; (5) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables; and (6) provisions for credit card chargebacks. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 due primarily to increased gross booking volumes, customer relations costs and the inclusion of a full year of OpenTable's results as compared to only a partial year's results in 2014. 54 Personnel Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Personnel $ 1,166,226 $ 950,191 22.7 % % of Total Gross Profit 13.6 % 12.5 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes and employee health benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses. Additionally, the inclusion of a full year of OpenTable's results in our 2015 consolidated results as compared to only a partial year's results in 2014 contributed to the increase in personnel expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 . General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change General and Administrative $ 415,420 $ 352,869 17.7 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.8 % 4.7 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) personnel-related expenses such as travel, recruiting and training expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , due to higher occupancy and office expenses related to the expansion of our international businesses and higher personnel-related expenses related to increased headcount in all of our businesses. Additionally, the inclusion of a full year of OpenTable's results in our 2015 consolidated results as compared to only a partial year's results in 2014 contributed to the increase in general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 . Information Technology Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Information Technology $ 113,617 $ 97,498 16.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.3 % 1.3 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; (3) outsourced data center costs; and (4) payments to outside consultants. Information technology expense increased during the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. Additionally, the inclusion of a full year of OpenTable's results in our 2015 consolidated results as compared to only a partial year's results in 2014 contributed to the increase in information technology expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 . 55 Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 272,494 $ 207,820 31.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.2 % 2.7 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , depreciation and amortization expense increased, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , due primarily to increased intangible amortization from the OpenTable acquisition and increased depreciation expense due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build-outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com business. Additionally, the inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 contributed to the increase in depreciation expense for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 . Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Interest Income $ 55,729 $ 13,933 300.0 % Interest Expense (160,229 ) (88,353 ) 81.4 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (26,087 ) (9,444 ) 176.2 % Total $ (130,587 ) $ (83,864 ) 55.7 % For the year ended December 31, 2015 , interest income on cash and marketable securities increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , primarily due to an increase in the average invested balance and higher yields. Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes issued in August 2014, September 2014, March 2015 and November 2015, partially offset by the maturity of our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes in March 2015. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange losses of $6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to foreign exchange gains of $13.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 , and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in losses of $21.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , which includes approximately $5.7 million of hedging cost and a foreign exchange loss recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015 related to the devaluation of the Argentine Peso, compared to foreign exchange losses of $17.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 , and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , we recognized $2.2 million of net realized gains related to investments, which are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The conversion of our convertible debt prior to maturity in the year ended December 31, 2014 resulted in non-cash losses of $6.3 million , which are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. 56 Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Income Tax Expense $ 576,960 $ 567,695 1.6 % Our effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 18.4% and 19.0% , respectively. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%, due to lower tax rates outside the United States, partially offset by U.S. state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. Our effective tax rate was lower for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , due to an increased proportion of our income being taxed at lower international tax rates. According to Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying innovative activities is taxed at a rate of 5% ("Innovation Box Tax") rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment, which had a significant beneficial impact on the Company's effective tax rate for those periods. While we expect Booking.com to continue to qualify for Innovation Box Tax treatment with respect to a portion of its earnings for the foreseeable future, the loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit, whether due to a change in tax law or a determination by the Dutch government that Booking.com's activities are not "innovative" or for any other reason, would substantially increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our results of operations. Until our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, most of our U.S. income will not be subject to a cash tax liability, other than federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our international income except in countries where we have operating loss carryforwards. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income faster than the U.S. business over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international businesses generate an increasing share of our pretax income. We will be subject to increased income taxes in the event that our cash balances held outside the United States are remitted to the United States. As of December 31, 2015 , we held approximately $9.8 billion of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments outside of the United States. We currently intend to use our cash held outside the United States to reinvest in our international operations. If our cash balances outside the United States continue to grow and our ability to reinvest those balances outside the United States diminishes, under U.S. GAAP we will be obligated to record additional income tax expense in the United States with respect to our unremitted international earnings. We would not make additional income tax payments unless we were to actually repatriate our international cash to the United States. We would pay only U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and certain U.S. state income taxes as long as we have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset our U.S. taxable income. This could result in us being subject to a cash income tax liability on the earnings of our U.S. businesses sooner than would otherwise have been the case. 57 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2014 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2013 Operating and Statistical Metrics Gross bookings resulting from accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our international and U.S. operations for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 Change International $ 43,639 $ 33,300 31.0 % U.S. 6,661 5,873 13.4 % Total $ 50,300 $ 39,173 28.4 % Gross bookings increased by 28.4% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 30%), principally due to growth of 27.9% in accommodation room night reservations, 3% growth on a constant currency basis in ADRs, growth of 18.1% in rental car day reservations and 12.0% growth in airline ticket reservations. International gross bookings grew by 31.0% (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 33%) for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily as a result of growth in accommodation room night reservations for our Booking.com and agoda.com businesses, as well as growth in rental car day reservations for our rentalcars.com business. The U.S. Dollar significantly strengthened against the Euro during 2014, moving from an exchange rate of 1.38 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of January 1, 2014 to 1.21 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of December 31, 2014. The U.S. Dollar has also strengthened against many other currencies since January 1, 2014. We therefore believe that unit growth rates and total gross bookings, international gross bookings and gross profit growth on a constant currency basis, excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. U.S. gross bookings increased by 13.4% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily due to increases in priceline.com's retail airline ticket, retail hotel, Express Deals hotel and retail rental car services, partially offset by declines in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Travel service providers typically provide a limited amount of availability to opaque services like ours, especially during periods of healthy travel demand. As a result, the recent healthy travel environment in the United States has had an adverse impact on our access to availability for our opaque reservation services. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 Change Agency $ 42,892 $ 32,672 31.3 % Merchant 7,409 6,501 14.0 % Total $ 50,300 $ 39,173 28.4 % Agency gross bookings increased 31.3% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily due to growth in Booking.com accommodation room night reservations, priceline.com's retail airline ticket, rental car and hotel reservation services, and rentalcars.com rental car reservation service. Merchant gross bookings increased 14.0% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily due to increases in agoda.com hotel reservation services, rentalcars.com rental car reservation services and priceline.com Express Deals hotel and retail hotel reservation services, partially offset by declines in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price services. 58 Units sold for accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 Change Room Nights 346.0 270.5 27.9 % Rental Car Days 51.8 43.9 18.1 % Airline Tickets 7.8 7.0 12.0 % Accommodation room night reservations increased by 27.9% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, due to an increase in Booking.com, agoda.com and priceline.com accommodation room night reservations. Booking.com, our most significant brand, included over 600,000 properties on its website as of February 13, 2015, which included over 245,000 vacation rental properties, compared to approximately 425,000 properties as of February 18, 2014, which included over 110,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in our newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate and our core European market. Rental car day reservations increased by 18.1% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, due to an increase in price-disclosed rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and priceline.com, partially offset by a decline in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price rental car reservation service. Airline ticket reservations increased by 12.0% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, due to an increase in price-disclosed airline ticket reservations for priceline.com driven primarily by increased paid advertising placements on KAYAK (which began in the third quarter of 2013), partially offset by a decline in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservation service. Revenues Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Agency Revenues $ 5,845,802 $ 4,410,689 32.5 % Merchant Revenues 2,186,054 2,211,474 (1.1 )% Advertising and Other Revenues 410,115 171,143 139.6 % Total Revenues $ 8,441,971 $ 6,793,306 24.3 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 increased 32.5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com. Our priceline.com agency revenues benefited from growth in our retail rental car, agency airline ticket and agency hotel reservation businesses. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 decreased 1.1% compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily due to decreases in revenues from priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services, mostly offset by increases in our agoda.com business, rentalcars.com business, priceline.com's Express Deals and retail merchant hotel reservation services and priceline.com's Express Deals rental car reservation services. Merchant revenue declined versus the prior year despite growth in merchant gross bookings, because our merchant revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price service. Name Your Own Price revenues, which declined year-over-year, are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and represented a smaller percentage, year-over-year, of total revenues compared to our faster-growing agoda.com, rentalcars.com and priceline.com retail merchant 59 hotel and Express Deals reservation services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2014 consisted primarily of advertising revenues, restaurant reservation revenues and subscription revenues for restaurant reservation management services. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 includes $100.6 million of OpenTable revenue earned since its acquisition on July 24, 2014. Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Cost of Revenues $ 857,841 $ 1,077,420 (20.4 )% Cost of Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2014, cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost paid to travel service providers for priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services, net of applicable taxes and charges; (2) fees paid to third parties by KAYAK and priceline.com to return travel itinerary information in response to search queries; and (3) costs related to accruals for travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 decreased by 20.4%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily due to a decrease in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia, partially offset by a reduction in our accrual related to travel transaction taxes of $6.3 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013, principally related to a favorable agreement and ruling in the District of Columbia. Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Agency revenues principally consist of travel commissions on accommodation reservations. Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Gross Profit $ 7,584,130 $ 5,715,886 32.7 % Gross Margin 89.8 % 84.1 % Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 increased by 32.7% compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 34%), primarily as a result of the increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, because our revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the year ended December 31, 2014 these revenues represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the year ended December 31, 2013. Our retail and semi-opaque reservation services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel provider cost have been growing faster than priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $6.6 billion of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2014, which compares to $5.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a constant currency basis, by approximately 34% for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Gross profit attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by approximately 35.4% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 was positively impacted by the inclusion of OpenTable and KAYAK since their acquisitions on July 24, 2014 and May 21, 2013, respectively. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 was 60 negatively impacted by an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia, partially offset by a credit in the fourth quarter of 2013 of $6.3 million, principally related to a favorable agreement and ruling in the District of Columbia. Operating Expenses Advertising Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Online Advertising $ 2,360,221 $ 1,798,645 31.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 31.1 % 31.5 % Offline Advertising $ 231,309 $ 127,459 81.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.0 % 2.2 % Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; and (4) banner, pop-up and other Internet and mobile advertisements. For the year ended December 31, 2014, online advertising expenses increased 31.2%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily to generate increased gross bookings. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 benefited from the inclusion of KAYAK and OpenTable because they spend a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other brands. Also, our consolidated results exclude intercompany advertising by our brands on KAYAK since the acquisition on May 21, 2013. In addition, the share of our business coming directly to our websites with no associated online advertising expense increased during the year ended December 31, 2014. These favorable impacts were almost entirely offset for the year ended December 31, 2014 by (1) a year-over-year decline in advertising ROIs and (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group as Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com grew faster than priceline.com and typically spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. Offline advertising expenses are primarily related to our Booking.com, KAYAK and priceline.com businesses and primarily consist of television advertising. For the year ended December 31, 2014, offline advertising increased 81.5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, due to the launch of offline advertising campaigns by Booking.com in Germany, the United Kingdom and Canada in 2014 and Australia in the fourth quarter of 2013, as well as incremental offline advertising by KAYAK. Offline advertising growth for the year ended December 31, 2014 was also impacted by the inclusion of KAYAK in our consolidated results since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Sales and Marketing $ 310,910 $ 235,817 31.8 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.1 % 4.1 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables. For the year ended December 31, 2014, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily due to increased gross booking volumes, higher public relations costs and the inclusion of OpenTable since its acquisition on July 24, 2014. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of gross profit are typically higher for our merchant businesses, which incur credit card processing fees. Our merchant business grew more slowly than our agency business, and as a result, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 were favorably impacted compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. This impact was offset during the year ended December 31, 2014 by the inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 because OpenTable spends a higher percentage of gross profit on sales and marketing than our agency businesses. 61 Personnel Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Personnel $ 950,191 $ 698,692 36.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 12.5 % 12.2 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes and employee health benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses. The inclusion of OpenTable and KAYAK in our consolidated results since their acquisitions on July 24, 2014 and May 21, 2013, respectively, contributed to this increase in personnel expenses. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $186.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to $140.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Stock-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 includes charges amounting to $20.6 million and $24.1 million, respectively, representing the impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period for outstanding unvested performance share units. Stock-based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2014 also includes $26.5 million of compensation expense related to 2014 acquisitions. In December 2013, the Dutch Government enacted certain amendments to Dutch tax law including a one-time irrevocable levy on an employer applied to employee earnings, equal to 16% of an employee's earnings in excess of 150,000 Euros. This levy resulted in additional payroll taxes recorded in personnel expense of approximately $12 million (approximately $9 million after tax) in the fourth quarter of 2013. There was no similar tax levy in 2014. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change General and Administrative $ 352,869 $ 252,994 39.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.7 % 4.4 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) personnel related expenses such as travel, recruiting and training expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, due primarily to higher occupancy and office expenses related to the expansion of our international businesses and higher personnel related expenses related to increased headcount in all of our businesses. The inclusion of OpenTable and KAYAK in our consolidated results since their acquisitions on July 24, 2014 and May 21, 2013, respectively, contributed to the increase in general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 included approximately $6.9 million of professional fees related to consummated acquisitions. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 included approximately $8.5 million of professional fees related to the acquisition of KAYAK. 62 Information Technology Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Information Technology $ 97,498 $ 71,890 35.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.3 % 1.3 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; (3) outsourced data center costs; and (4) payments to outside consultants. Information technology expense increased during the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. The inclusion of OpenTable and KAYAK in our consolidated results since their acquisitions on July 24, 2014 and May 21, 2013, respectively, contributed to the increase in information technology expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 207,820 $ 117,975 76.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.7 % 2.1 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. For the year ended December 31, 2014, depreciation and amortization expense increased from the year ended December 31, 2013 due primarily to increased intangible amortization from the OpenTable and KAYAK acquisitions and increased depreciation expense due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com business. Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Interest Income $ 13,933 $ 4,167 234.4 % Interest Expense (88,353 ) (83,289 ) 6.1 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (9,444 ) (36,755 ) (74.3 )% Total $ (83,864 ) $ (115,877 ) (27.6 )% For the year ended December 31, 2014, interest income on cash and marketable securities increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily due to an increase in the average invested balance and higher yields. Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes issued in August 2014 and September 2014 and interest expense attributable to our Senior Convertible Notes issued in May 2013, partially offset by early conversions of our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 2015. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $13.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared with foreign exchange gains of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, which are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 63 Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, of $17.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to foreign exchange transaction losses of $10.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we delivered cash of $122.9 million to repay the aggregate principal amount and issued 300,256 shares of our common stock and paid cash of $2.2 million in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount associated with our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 2015 that were converted prior to maturity. The conversion of our convertible debt prior to maturity resulted in a non-cash loss of $6.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to a non-cash loss of $26.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, which is recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Income Tax Expense $ 567,695 $ 403,739 40.6 % Our effective tax rates, expressed as income tax expense as a percentage of earnings before income taxes, for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were 19.0% and 17.6%, respectively. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%, due to lower tax rates outside the United States, partially offset by U.S. state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. Our effective tax rate was higher for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily due to the acquisitions of OpenTable on July 24, 2014 and KAYAK on May 21, 2013, both of which are principally taxed at the higher U.S. tax rates. According to Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying innovative activities is taxed at a rate of 5% ("Innovation Box Tax") rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment, which had a significant beneficial impact on the Company's effective tax rate for those periods. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 Change Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests $ $ 135 NA We purchased the remaining outstanding shares underlying the redeemable noncontrolling interests in April 2013. 64 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2015 , we had $10.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments. Approximately $9.8 billion is held by our international subsidiaries and is denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars, Euros and, to a lesser extent, British Pounds Sterling and other currencies. We currently intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of the United States. If we repatriate cash to the United States, we would utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and beyond that amount incur additional tax payments in the United States. Cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments are comprised of U.S. and foreign corporate bonds, U.S. and foreign government securities, high-grade commercial paper, U.S. government agency securities, Ctrip American Depositary Shares ("ADSs") and bank deposits. On May 26, 2015, we invested $250 million in five -year senior convertible notes issued at par by Ctrip.com International Ltd. ("Ctrip"). On December 11, 2015, we invested $500 million in a ten-year senior convertible note issued at par value by Ctrip. During 2015, we invested an additional $208.4 million in Ctrip ADSs. In June 2015, we entered into a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.50% ; or the greatest of (a) Bank of America, N.A.'s prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.5% , and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00% , plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50% . Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.085% to 0.20% . The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $70.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50.0 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2015 , there were no borrowings outstanding and approximately $2.5 million of letters of credit issued under the facility. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , we repurchased 2,539,921 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $3.1 billion . As of December 31, 2015, there was no remaining authorization from our Board of Directors to purchase our common stock. In the first quarter of 2016, the Board of Directors authorized a program allowing us to purchase of up to $3.0 billion of our common stock. We may from time to time make repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. We expect to use cash on hand and generated by our operations in the United States to fund our share repurchases. We may also utilize our revolving credit facility or raise funds through the debt capital markets to fund share repurchases. In September 2015, we paid $18.4 million to settle a contingent liability related to an acquisition. The portion of the payment related to the acquisition-date estimated fair value of $10.7 million is shown as a financing activity and the remaining portion of the payment for $7.7 million , which was charged to general and administrative expenses as a fair value adjustment, is included as an operating activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2015 . In March 2015, we issued Senior Notes due 2027 for an aggregate principal amount of 1.0 billion Euros, with an interest rate of 1.8% . Interest on the notes is payable annually on March 3, beginning March 3, 2016. In addition, in March 2015, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2025, with an interest rate of 3.65% . Interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15, beginning September 15, 2015. In November 2015, we issued Senior Notes due 2022 for an aggregate principal amount of 750 million Euros, with an interest rate of 2.15% . Interest on the 2022 Notes is payable annually on November 25, beginning November 25, 2016. The net proceeds of these notes were used for general corporate purposes. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these notes. In March 2015, in connection with the maturity or conversion prior to maturity of the remaining outstanding 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 15, 2015, we paid $37.5 million to satisfy the aggregate principal amount due and paid an additional $110.1 million in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount. Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from consumers and then we pay most of our travel service providers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant swings in accounts receivable, 65 deferred merchant bookings and travel service provider payables seasonally depending on the absolute level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 , was $3.1 billion , resulting from net income of $2.6 billion and a favorable impact of $558.9 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $8.0 million . The changes in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2015 , were primarily related to a $166.2 million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, offset by a $68.7 million increase in accounts receivable and $81.6 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were primarily associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was $2.9 billion, resulting from net income of $2.4 billion and a favorable impact of non-cash items not affecting cash flows of $518.0 million, slightly offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $25.4 million. The changes in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2014, were primarily related to a $203.9 million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, offset by a $182.2 million increase in accounts receivable and $48.9 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were primarily associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount and deferred income taxes. Net cash used in investing activities was $3.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 were affected by net purchases of investments of $3.6 billion , $140.3 million used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, partially offset by net proceeds of $5.2 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts. Net cash used in investing activities was $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 were affected by payments of $2.5 billion for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and net cash payments of $80.3 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts slightly offset by net sales of investments of $350.3 million and a change in restricted cash of $9.3 million. Cash invested in the purchase of property and equipment was $173.9 million and $131.5 million in the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The increase in 2015 was related to additional data center capacity and new offices to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com business. Net cash used in financing activities was $730.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 primarily consisted of treasury stock purchases of $3.1 billion , payments of $147.6 million related to the conversion of Senior Notes and payment of $10.7 million related to the settlement of the acquisition-date estimated contingent liability related to an acquisition, primarily offset by the total proceeds of $2.4 billion from the issuance of Senior Notes, excess tax benefits on stock-based awards of $101.5 million and the exercise of employee stock options of $20.9 million . Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014. Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily consisted of total proceeds of $2.3 billion from the issuance of Convertible Senior Notes and Euro denominated Senior Notes, excess tax benefits on stock-based awards of $23.4 million and the exercise of employee stock options of $16.4 million, partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $750.4 million and payments of $125.1 million related to the conversion of Senior Notes. Contingencies French tax authorities recently concluded an audit that started in 2013 of the years 2003 through 2012 to determine whether Booking.com is in compliance with its tax obligations in France, and Booking.com received a formal assessment in December 2015. While we believe that Booking.com has been, and continues to be, in compliance with French tax law, as a result of the audit the French tax authorities claim that Booking.com has a permanent establishment in France and seek to recover unpaid income taxes and VAT of approximately 356 million Euros, the majority of which would represent penalties and interest. We intend to contest any such assessment. If we are unable to resolve the matter with the French authorities, we would expect to challenge the assessment in the French courts. In order to contest the assessment in court, we may be required to pay, upfront, the full amount or a significant part of any such assessment, though any such payment would not constitute an admission by us that we owe the taxes. French authorities may decide to also audit subsequent tax years, which could result in additional assessments. See Part I Item IA Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " A number of U.S. jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against online travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). In addition, a number of U.S. states, counties and municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started 66 inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes. For additional information, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations " in this Annual Report. As a result of this litigation and other attempts by U.S. jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual (including estimated interest and penalties) for the potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes in the amount of approximately $27 million at December 31, 2015 compared to approximately $52 million at December 31, 2014 . A March 2015 ruling by the Hawaii Supreme Court significantly reduced our (and other OTCs') liability and as a result we reduced our accrual for travel transaction taxes (including estimated interest and penalties) by $16.4 million with a corresponding reduction to cost of revenues in the first quarter of 2015. The accrual is based on our estimate of the probable cost of resolving these issues. Our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded. An estimate for a reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount accrued cannot be reasonably made. If we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash we believe that it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. The following table represents our material contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2015 (see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements): Payments due by Period (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More than 5 Years Operating lease obligations $ 465,528 $ 92,552 $ 151,874 $ 114,243 $ 106,859 Senior Notes (1) 7,347,065 103,658 1,202,315 1,185,565 4,855,527 Revolving credit facility (2) 11,926 3,146 5,049 3,731 Earnout - acquisition 9,170 9,170 Total (3) $ 7,833,689 $ 199,356 $ 1,359,238 $ 1,312,709 $ 4,962,386 (1) Represents the aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes outstanding as of December 31, 2015 and cumulative interest to maturity of $858 million. Convertible debt does not reflect the market value in excess of the outstanding principal amount because we can settle the conversion premium amount in cash or shares of common stock at our option. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) Represents fees on uncommitted funds and outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2015 . (3) We reported "Other long-term liabilities" of $135 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2015 , of which approximately $43 million related to deferred rents, approximately $42 million related to unrecognized tax benefits (see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and approximately $27 million related to our accrual for the potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes (see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). A variety of factors could affect the timing of payments for the liabilities related to travel transaction taxes and unrecognized tax benefits. We believe that these matters will likely not be resolved in the next twelve months and accordingly we have classified the estimated liability as non-current in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Therefore, we have excluded long-term liabilities of $126 million from the contractual obligations table above because we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of such payments or the liability related to deferred rents, which represents the difference in rent expense recognized in the income statements and rent payments related to operating leases. We believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, if during that period or thereafter, we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plan, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, revenue growth or sustained profitability may not be realized, and future borrowings or equity sales may not be available in amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies or repay our indebtedness. 67 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. As of December 31, 2015 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.