Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements " at the end of this Item 2. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, " this discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in " Risk Factors " and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. The information on our websites is not a part of this Quarterly Report and is not incorporated herein by reference. We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Overview Our mission is to help people experience the world. We aim to achieve our mission to help people experience the world through global leadership in online travel and restaurant reservation and related services by: providing consumers with the best choices and prices at any time, in any place, on any device; making it easy for people to find, book and experience their travel desires; and providing platforms, tools and insights to our business partners to help them be successful. We operate six primary brands: Booking.com - the worlds leading brand for booking online accommodation reservations, based on room nights booked. priceline - a leading hotel, rental car, airline ticket and vacation package reservation service in the United States. KAYAK - a leading meta-search service allowing consumers to easily search and compare travel itineraries and prices, including airline ticket, accommodation and rental car reservation information, from hundreds of travel websites at once. agoda - a leading accommodation reservation service catering primarily to consumers in the Asia-Pacific region. Rentalcars.com - a leading worldwide rental car reservation service (which began operating as part of Booking.com on January 1, 2018). OpenTable - a leading provider of restaurant reservation and information services to consumers and restaurant reservation management and customer acquisition services to restaurants (which began operating as part of KAYAK on July 1, 2018). Results for KAYAK include the Momondo Group since it was acquired in July 2017. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands collectively as "Booking Holdings," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, Rentalcars.com and agoda and the international businesses of KAYAK and OpenTable. This classification is independent of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while using our services or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant. For example, a reservation made through Booking.com at a hotel in New York by a consumer in the United States is part of our international results. During the year ended December 31, 2017 , our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 89% of our consolidated gross profit. We derive substantially all of our revenue from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars and other travel services on an agency basis; Transaction net revenues and travel reservation commissions on a merchant basis and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car, airline ticket, attractions and in-stay services and vacation package reservation services; Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to online travel companies ("OTCs") and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; 39 Reservation revenues paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation services, subscription fees for restaurant reservation management services provided by OpenTable; and Ancillary revenues including travel insurance-related revenues, credit card processing rebates, global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees and customer processing fees, in each case related to certain of our travel services. Our priceline brand offers merchant Name Your Own Price opaque travel services, which were previously recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis with the amount remitted to the travel service providers reported as cost of revenues. Under the current revenue standard, Name Your Own Price revenues are reported on a net basis with the amount remitted to the travel service providers recorded as an offset in merchant revenues. Therefore, for periods beginning after December 31, 2017, we no longer present "Cost of revenues" or "Gross profit" in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Total revenues for periods beginning after December 31, 2017 are comparable to gross profit reported in prior periods. For further information on the adoption of the current revenue standard, see Note 2 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. Trends Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices and the growth of travel overall, including in higher growth emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America. We also believe this growth is the result of the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to add accommodations to our travel reservation services, increase and improve content, build distribution and improve the consumer experience on our websites and mobile apps, as well as consistently and effectively marketing our brands through performance and brand marketing efforts. These year-over-year growth rates have generally decelerated. Given the size of our accommodation reservation business, we expect that our year-over-year growth rates will generally continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate and there may be periods of acceleration from time to time. Our international business represents the substantial majority of our financial results, and we expect our operating results and other financial metrics to continue to be largely driven by international performance. The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States, and recent international online travel growth rates have exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. Over the long term, we expect that international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. Our growth has primarily been generated by our worldwide accommodation reservation service brand, Booking.com, which is our most significant brand, and has been due, in part, to the availability of a large and growing number of instantly bookable properties through Booking.com. Booking.com included approximately 2,065,000 properties on its website at September 30, 2018 , consisting of approximately 430,000 hotels, motels and resorts and approximately 1,635,000 homes, apartments and other unique places to stay, compared to approximately 1,475,000 properties (including approximately 385,000 hotels, motels and resorts and approximately 1,090,000 homes, apartments, and other unique places to stay) at September 30, 2017 . Booking.com categorizes properties listed on its website as either (a) hotels, motels and resorts, which groups together more traditional accommodation types (including hostels and inns), or (b) homes, apartments and other unique places to stay, also referred to as alternative accommodations, which encompasses all other types of accommodations, including bed and breakfasts, apart-hotels, villas and beyond. We intend to continue to invest in adding accommodations available for reservation on our platforms, such as hotels, motels, resorts, homes, apartments and other unique places to stay. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly-penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts). Because alternative accommodations are often either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, these properties generally represent more limited booking opportunities than hotels, motels and resorts, which generally have more units to rent per property. Further, alternative accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons, weather or other factors or may not be available at peak times due to use by the property owners. We may also experience lower profit margins with respect to these properties due to certain additional costs related to offering these accommodations on our websites. As we increase our alternative accommodation business, these different characteristics could negatively impact our profit margins; and, to the extent these 40 properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our websites, we expect that our gross bookings growth rate and property growth rate will continue to diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of alternative accommodation properties increases, the number of reservations per property will likely continue to decrease. We believe that continuing to expand the number and variety of accommodations available through our services, in particular Booking.com, will help us to continue to grow our accommodation reservation business. As part of our strategy to increase the number and variety of accommodations available on Booking.com, Booking.com is increasingly processing transactions on a merchant basis where it receives payments on behalf of customers. This allows Booking.com to process transactions for properties that do not accept credit cards and to increase its ability to offer secure and flexible transaction terms to consumers, such as the form and timing of payment. We believe that adding these types of properties and service offerings will benefit our customers and our gross bookings, room night and earnings growth rates. However, this results in additional expenses for personnel, payment processing, customer chargebacks and other expenses related to these transactions, which are recorded in "Personnel" and "Sales and other expenses" in our Unaudited Statements of Operations, as well as associated incremental revenues in the form of credit card rebates, for example, which are recorded in "Merchant revenues." As this business continues to grow, we may experience a significant increase in these expenses that may not be fully offset by an increase in associated incremental revenues, which would negatively impact our operating margins. Perceived or actual adverse economic conditions, including slow, slowing or negative economic growth, rising unemployment rates and weakening currencies and concerns over government responses such as higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. Further, political uncertainty, conditions or events, such as the United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union ("Brexit") and concerns regarding certain E.U. members with sovereign debt default risks can also negatively affect consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates, increased cancellation rates and weaker trends in hotel average daily rates ("ADRs") across many regions of the world, particularly in those countries that appear to be most affected by economic and political uncertainties, which we believe are due at least in part to these macro-economic conditions and concerns. For more detail, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance. " These and other macro-economic uncertainties, such as geopolitical tensions and differing central bank monetary policies, have led to significant volatility in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and other currencies. Significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, stock markets and oil prices can also impact consumer travel behavior. As noted earlier, our international business represents a substantial majority of our financial results. Therefore, because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results and the financial condition of our international businesses are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. As a result, both the absolute amounts of and percentage changes in our foreign-currency-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars are affected by currency exchange rate changes. Our foreign-currency-denominated gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars are lower for the three months ended September 30, 2018 in each case than they would have been had foreign exchange rates remained where they were in the corresponding period in 2017. Conversely, each of these items, except for net income due to seasonality, as expressed in U.S. Dollars are higher for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 than they would have been had foreign exchange rates remained where they were in the corresponding period in 2017. For example, total revenues in 2018 compared to gross profit in 2017 from our international operations grew 11.0% and 17.5% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, as compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , but, without the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, grew year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately 14% and 15% , respectively. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins have not been significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. The aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated long-term debt, and accrued interest thereon, provide a hedge against the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on the net assets of certain of our Euro functional currency subsidiaries (see Note 6 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). For more information, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates." We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on the translation of our consolidated operating results into U.S. Dollars. However, such derivative instruments are short-term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact growth rates for our gross bookings or revenues (see Note 6 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). 41 We compete globally with both online and traditional providers of travel and restaurant reservation and related services. The markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive and current and new competitors can launch new services to compete with us at relatively low cost. Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple, Alibaba, Tencent, Amazon and Facebook, have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do, and they may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to enable them to compete more effectively with us. For example, Google has entered various aspects of the online travel market, including by establishing a flight meta-search product (Google Flights) and a hotel meta-search business (Google Hotel Ads) that are growing rapidly, as well as its "Book on Google" reservation functionality and its Google Trips app. Our markets are also subject to rapidly changing conditions, including technological developments, consumer behavior changes, regulatory changes and travel service provider consolidation. We expect these trends to continue. For example, we have experienced a significant shift of both direct and indirect business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. In addition, the revenue earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay, have lower ADRs and are not made as far in advance. For more detail regarding the competitive trends and risks we face, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. " and " Consumer adoption and use of mobile devices creates new challenges and may enable device companies such as Apple to compete directly with us. " and " We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological changes. " Although we believe that providing an extensive collection of properties, excellent customer service and an intuitive, easy to use website or mobile experience are important factors influencing a consumer's decision to make a reservation, for many consumers, particularly in certain markets, the price of the travel service is the primary factor determining whether a consumer will book a reservation. We have observed an increase in promotional pricing to closed user groups (such as loyalty program participants or consumers with registered accounts), including through mobile apps. In addition, many large hotel chains and OTCs have launched initiatives, such as increased discounting and incentives, to encourage consumers to book accommodations through their websites. Discounting and couponing coupled with a high degree of consumer shopping behavior is particularly common in Asian markets. In some cases, our competitors are willing to make little or no profit on a transaction, or offer travel services at a loss, in order to gain market share. We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through marketing and promotional campaigns. Both our performance and brand marketing expenses have increased significantly in recent years, and we expect our performance and brand marketing expenses to continue to increase. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , our total performance marketing expense was approximately $3.6 billion and $3.4 billion , respectively, primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services and affiliate marketing to generate traffic to our websites. Growth of some of these channels has slowed. We also invested approximately $385 million and $337 million in brand marketing for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively, primarily related to costs associated with producing and airing television advertising, online video advertising (for example, on YouTube and Facebook), online display advertising and other brand marketing. We intend to continue a strategy of promoting brand awareness through both online and offline marketing efforts, including by expanding brand campaigns into additional markets, which may significantly increase our brand marketing expenses. We have observed increased brand marketing by OTCs, meta-search services and travel service providers, which may make our brand marketing efforts more expensive and less effective. Performance marketing efficiency, expressed as performance marketing expense as a percentage of total revenues in 2018 or as a percentage of gross profit in 2017, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and the extent to which consumers come directly to our websites or mobile apps for bookings. For example, competition for desired rankings in search results and/or a decline in ad clicks by consumers could increase our costs per click and reduce our performance marketing efficiency. In recent years, we experienced significant increases in our cancellation rates, which negatively affected our marketing efficiency and results of operations. More recently our cancellation rates have decreased, which has benefited our marketing efficiency and results of operations. We believe that many factors influence cancellation rates, and it is uncertain whether future cancellation rates will continue to decrease, stabilize or continue their prior trend of generally increasing over time. Further, cancellation rates could vary period to period without following a discernible trend. Changes by Google in how it presents travel search results, including by placing its own offerings at or near the top of search results, or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results may be competitively disadvantageous to us and may impact our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites. Similarly, changes by our other search and meta-search partners in how they present travel search results or the manner in which they conduct the auction for placement among search results may be competitively disadvantageous to us and may impact our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites. 42 We have observed a long-term trend of decreasing performance marketing returns on investment ("ROIs"), a trend we expect to continue, though the rate of decrease may fluctuate and there may be periods of stable or increasing ROIs from time to time. In addition, we may from time to time, as we did over the past five quarters, pursue a strategy of improving our performance marketing ROIs, which could negatively impact growth and positively impact performance marketing efficiency and profitability. When evaluating our performance marketing spend, we consider several factors for each channel, such as the customer experience on the advertising platform, the incrementality of the traffic we receive and the anticipated repeat rate from a particular platform, as well as other factors. The amount of business we obtain through each performance marketing channel is impacted by numerous factors, including bidding decisions by us and our competitors (including decisions to optimize performance marketing ROIs) and the marketing efforts and success of those channels to attract consumers and generate demand. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We rely on performance and brand marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites and grow our business. " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in internet search engine algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " We estimate our effective tax rate for 2018 to be approximately 18-21%, which represents our best estimate of our tax expense including the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), estimated U.S. state income taxes and international withholding taxes on our international earnings, and an increase in the Innovation Box Tax rate in the Netherlands from 5% to 7%. The provisions of the Tax Act are broad and complex, and further interpretation and clarification of the Tax Act is expected from U.S. tax authorities . As a result, our estimate is based on our current understanding and could change as more information becomes available. See Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " and " We may not be able to maintain our 'Innovation Box Tax' benefit. " Many national governments have conducted or are conducting investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. Some countries have adopted or proposed legislation that could also affect business practices within the online travel industry. For example, France and Italy, among others, have adopted legislation making price parity agreements illegal and similar legislation is under consideration in other countries. Also, a number of governments are investigating or conducting information-gathering exercises in respect of compliance by OTCs with consumer protection laws, including practices related to the display of search results and search ranking algorithms, claims regarding discounts, disclosure of charges and availability, and similar messaging. For more information on these investigations and their potential effects on our business, see Note 12 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " As the size of our business grows, we may become increasingly subject to the scrutiny of anti-trust, competition and consumer protection regulators. " In addition to the price parity and consumer protection investigations, from time to time national competition authorities, other governmental agencies, trade associations and private parties take legal actions, including commencing legal proceedings, that may affect our operations. For example, in March 2017, in connection with a lawsuit begun in 2015 by the Association of Turkish Travel Agencies claiming that Booking.com is required to meet certain registration requirements in Turkey, a Turkish court ordered Booking.com to suspend offering Turkish hotels and accommodations to Turkish residents. Although Booking.com is appealing the order and believes it to be without basis, this order has had a negative impact on the Company's growth and results of operations, and is expected to continue to negatively impact the Company's results of operations. In general, increased regulatory focus on online businesses, including online travel businesses like ours, could result in increased compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. Seasonality A meaningful amount of our gross bookings is generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. However, historically we generally have not recognized revenue from these bookings until the travel is completed (at "check-out") or for periods beginning after December 31, 2017 when the travel begins (at "check-in"), which, in either case, can be in a quarter other than when the reservation is booked. In contrast, we expense the substantial majority of our marketing activities as the expense is incurred, which, in the case of performance marketing in particular, is typically in the quarter in which associated reservations are booked. As a result of this potential timing difference between when we record marketing expense and when we recognize associated revenue, we experience our highest levels of profitability in the third quarter of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation check-ins for the year for our European and North American businesses. The first quarter of the year is typically our lowest level of profitability and may experience additional volatility in earnings growth rates due to these seasonal timing factors. For our Asia-Pacific business, we experience the highest levels of accommodation bookings in the third and fourth quarters of the year, and the highest levels of accommodation check-ins in the fourth quarter. As the relative growth rates for our businesses fluctuate, the quarterly distribution of our operating results may vary. In recent years, we experienced an expansion of the booking window (the average time between the making of a travel reservation and the travel), which impacts the relationship between our gross bookings (recognized at the time of booking) and 43 our revenues (recognized at the time of check-out or, for periods beginning after December 31, 2017, at the time of check-in). More recently we have seen a contraction of the booking window. Future changes in the booking window will affect the degree to which our gross bookings and revenues occur in the same period and, as a result, whether our gross bookings growth rates and revenue growth rates converge or diverge. Upon adoption of the current revenue standard, for periods beginning after December 31, 2017, the timing of revenue recognition for travel reservation services changed. For example, revenue for accommodation reservation services, which was primarily recognized at check-out under the previous revenue standard, changed to be recognized at check-in under the new revenue standard. We estimate that total revenues recognized at check-in for the fourth quarter of 2018 would be reduced by slightly less than 5% if recognized at check-out, which was how revenues were recognized in the fourth quarter of 2017. In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2017, our second quarter year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were positively impacted by Easter falling in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2016. Conversely, our first quarter 2017 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were adversely impacted by Easter falling in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2016. Similar to 2017, in 2018 Easter fell in the second quarter instead of the first quarter. However, because Easter was on April 1, 2018 and a meaningful amount of Easter travel commenced in the week leading up to Easter (i.e., during the first quarter), Easter had a positive effect on our first quarter 2018 year-over-year growth rates and had a negative effect on our second quarter 2018 year-over-year growth rates due to the change in our revenue recognition policy from "check-out" to "check-in." In 2019, Easter will be on April 21, and the associated Easter-related travel will generally begin in the second quarter of 2019. As a result, the shift in timing of Easter relative to 2018 will have a negative effect on our year-over-year growth rates in the first quarter of 2019 and a positive effect on our year-over-year growth rates in the second quarter of 2019. The timing of other holidays such as Ramadan can also impact our quarterly year-over-year growth rates. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable marketing expense. In addition, revenue growth is typically less impacted by decelerating gross bookings growth in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters, but any such deceleration would negatively impact revenue growth in subsequent periods. Conversely, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate accelerates, our operating margins are typically negatively impacted by relatively more variable marketing expense. In addition, revenue growth is typically less impacted by accelerating gross bookings growth in the near term, but any such acceleration would positively impact revenue growth in subsequent periods as a portion of the revenue recognized from such gross bookings will occur in future quarters. Other Factors We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel-related services. Factors beyond our control, such as oil prices, stock market volatility, terrorist attacks, unusual or extreme weather or natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, droughts and volcanic eruptions, travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, Zika and MERS, political instability, changes in economic conditions, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, changes in trade or immigration policies or travel-related accidents, can disrupt travel or otherwise result in declines in travel demand. Because these events or concerns, and the full impact of their effects, are largely unpredictable, they can dramatically and suddenly affect travel behavior by consumers, and therefore demand for our services, which can adversely affect our business and results of operations. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance. " We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, acquisitions. As the overall size of our business has grown, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of services and technologies, including services and technologies that may be outside of our historical core business, and our ability to keep pace may slow. Potential competitors, such as emerging start-ups, may be able to innovate and focus on developing a particularly new product or service faster than we can or may foresee consumer need for new services or technologies before us. Some of our larger competitors or potential competitors have more resources or more established or diversified relationships with consumers than we do, and they could use these advantages in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, entering or investing in travel reservation businesses, investing in 44 research and development, and competing aggressively for highly-skilled employees. For example, because consumers often utilize other online services more frequently than online travel services, a competitor or potential competitor that has established other, more frequent online interactions with consumers may be able to more easily or cost-effectively acquire customers for its online travel services than we can. Our goal is to grow revenue and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain and highly competitive environment in which we operate makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain revenue growth and profitability. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for Valuation of Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets A substantial portion of the Company's intangibles and goodwill relates to the acquisitions of OpenTable in July 2014 and KAYAK in May 2013. As of September 30, 2018 , we performed our annual goodwill impairment testing and concluded that there was no impairment of goodwill. Other than OpenTable, the fair values of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values as of September 30, 2018 . In addition, at September 30, 2018 , we did not identify any impairment indicator for our other long-lived assets. We estimated OpenTables fair value using a combination of standard valuation techniques, including an income approach (discounted cash flows) and market approaches (EBITDA multiples of comparable publicly-traded companies and precedent transactions). At September 30, 2018, OpenTable's estimated fair value was approximately 13% higher than its carrying value, therefore there was no impairment to OpenTable's goodwill. Future events and changing market conditions may lead us to re-evaluate the assumptions reflected in the current forecast, including key assumptions regarding OpenTable's expected growth rates and operating margins as well as other key assumptions with respect to matters outside of our control, such as discount rates, currency exchange rates and market EBITDA comparables. If OpenTable does not achieve the results currently expected or if any of the assumptions underlying our estimate of the fair value of the OpenTable business prove to be incorrect, we may need to adjust our forecast for the OpenTable business and recognize a goodwill impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 45 Results of Operations Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared to the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units booked through our OTC brands by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked through our OTC brands by our customers, net of cancellations, and is widely used in the travel business. Our non-OTC brands (KAYAK and OpenTable) have different business metrics from those of our OTC brands and therefore search queries through KAYAK and restaurant reservations through OpenTable do not contribute to our gross bookings. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Agency $ 19,024 $ 18,594 2.3 % $ 58,689 $ 54,681 7.3 % Merchant 5,250 3,168 65.7 % 14,490 8,564 69.2 % Total $ 24,274 $ 21,762 11.5 % $ 73,179 $ 63,245 15.7 % Gross bookings increased by 11.5% and 15.7% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 14% and 12% , respectively), almost entirely due to growth of 13.4% and 12.9% , respectively, in accommodation room night reservations. Accommodation ADRs on a constant-currency basis were up approximately 1% and relatively unchanged for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 . For the three months ended September 30, 2018 , foreign exchange rate fluctuations negatively impacted gross bookings growth in U.S. Dollars, but benefited gross bookings growth in U.S. Dollars for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 . We believe that unit growth rates and growth in total gross bookings on a constant-currency basis, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not receive payments from travelers for the travel services provided. Agency gross bookings increased by 2.3% and 7.3% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , almost entirely due to the growth in gross bookings from agency accommodation room night reservations at Booking.com and agoda. Merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we receive payments from travelers for the travel services provided. Merchant gross bookings increased by 65.7% and 69.2% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , almost entirely due to growth in gross bookings from our merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com and agoda. 46 Accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our services for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Room nights 201.3 177.5 13.4 % 588.7 521.6 12.9 % Rental car days 19.0 19.0 (0.1 )% 58.6 58.3 0.5 % Airline tickets 1.8 1.7 9.2 % 5.6 5.3 5.4 % Accommodation room night reservations increased by 13.4% and 12.9% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , primarily due to strong execution by our brand teams to add new properties to our accommodation reservation services, invest in performance and brand marketing and provide a continuously improving experience for customers, as well as the overall growth in the travel industry and the ongoing shift from offline to online for travel bookings. The increase for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, was also positively impacted by a decrease in cancellation rates. Rental car day reservations decreased by 0.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017, due to a decrease in U.S. rental car day reservations, almost entirely offset by an increase in international rental car day reservations. Rental car day reservations increased by 0.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , due to an increase in international rental car day reservations, almost entirely offset by a decrease in U.S. rental car day reservations. On March 26, 2018, priceline discontinued its Name Your Own Price rental car reservation service. Airline ticket reservations increased by 9.2% and 5.4% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , due to the benefits of priceline's investments in its flight platform and brand marketing. Revenues Online travel reservation services Substantially all of our revenues are generated by providing online travel reservation services, which facilitate online travel purchases between travel service providers and travelers. For periods beginning after December 31, 2017, we recognize revenue for travel reservation services when the travel begins rather than when the travel is completed. For example, once the customer checks in to an accommodation, we record revenues, which are net of sales incentives and expected changes in reservations. In addition, for periods beginning prior to January 1, 2018, revenues from Name Your Own Price transactions were presented on a gross basis with the amount remitted to the travel service providers reported as cost of revenues. Under the current revenue standard, Name Your Own Price revenues are reported on a net basis with the amount remitted to the travel service providers recorded as an offset in merchant revenues. Therefore, for periods beginning after December 31, 2017, we no longer present "Cost of revenues" or "Gross profit" in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. For further information on the adoption of the current revenue standard, see Note 2 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenues from online travel reservation services are classified into two categories: Agency. Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not receive payments from travelers for the travel reservation services provided. Agency revenues consist almost entirely of travel reservation commissions, as well as certain GDS reservation booking fees and certain travel insurance fees. Substantially all of our agency revenue is from Booking.com agency accommodation reservations. Merchant. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we receive payments from travelers for the travel reservation services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction net revenues (i.e., the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged to us by travel service providers) and travel reservation commissions in connection with (a) the accommodation reservations provided through our merchant accommodation reservation 47 services at Booking.com, agoda and priceline and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at Rentalcars.com; (2) ancillary fees, including travel insurance-related revenues, credit card processing rebates and certain GDS reservation booking fees and (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the merchant accommodation reservation services at priceline and agoda. Advertising and other revenues Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for (a) sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers and (b) advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; (2) revenues earned by OpenTable for (a) reservation fees (fees paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees earned by OpenTable for restaurant reservation management services; (3) revenues earned by priceline for advertising on its websites; and (4) revenues generated by Booking.com's BookingSuite branded accommodation marketing and business analytics services. Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Agency revenues $ 3,540,874 $ 3,523,706 0.5 % $ 8,220,506 $ 7,641,390 7.6 % Merchant revenues 1,049,661 684,289 2,285,992 1,624,467 Advertising and other revenues 258,555 226,034 14.4 % 807,887 612,132 32.0 % Total revenues $ 4,849,090 4,434,029 $ 11,314,385 9,877,989 Cost of revenues 54,181 202,007 Gross profit $ 4,379,848 $ 9,675,982 Agency revenues increased by 0.5% and 7.6% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , almost entirely due to growth in agency accommodation room night reservations at Booking.com and agoda. Merchant revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $1.0 billion and $2.3 billion , respectively, compared to merchant revenues less cost of revenues of $630.1 million and $1.4 billion for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , respectively, resulting in an increase of 66.6% and 60.7% , respectively. Revenue from our merchant accommodation reservation services contributed approximately 91% of the year-over-year increase for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 . Booking.com has been expanding its merchant accommodation reservation services to provide greater payment options for both customers and travel service providers. Advertising and other revenues increased by 14.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017 , primarily due to (1) growth in our KAYAK business including approximately $42 million in revenue related to the Momondo Group for the three months ended September 30, 2018 , compared to approximately $33 million in revenue related to the Momondo Group since its acquisition in July 2017 for the three months ended September 30, 2017 ; and (2) increased diner reservation volumes at OpenTable. Advertising and other revenues increased by 32.0% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , primarily due to (1) the inclusion of approximately $128 million in revenue related to the Momondo Group for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to approximately $33 million in revenue related to the Momondo Group since its acquisition in July 2017 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; (2) other growth in our KAYAK business; (3) increased diner reservation volumes at OpenTable; and (4) a benefit from the reversal of approximately $27 million related to OpenTable's loyalty program liability in the first quarter of 2018, which resulted from the introduction of a three-year time-based expiration for points earned by diners. Total revenues of $4.8 billion and $11.3 billion for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, as compared to gross profit of $4.4 billion and $9.7 billion for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , respectively, increased by 10.7% and 16.9% , respectively (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 13% and 15% , respectively). Revenue from our accommodation reservation services contributed approximately 85% and 83% of the year-over-year increase for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively. Total revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 under the current revenue standard, where revenue is recognized when the travel begins (at "check-in"), were approximately 1.2% and 1.1% lower than total revenues for 48 the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, if reported under the previous revenue standard, where revenue was recognized when travel was completed (at "check-out") (see Note 2 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). The unfavorable impact of 1.2% and 1.1% on total revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, resulted in an unfavorable impact on the growth rates of approximately one percentage point when comparing total revenues for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 to gross profit for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017. Total revenues as a percentage of gross bookings was 20.0% and 15.5% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, as compared to gross profit as a percentage of gross bookings of 20.1% and 15.3% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , respectively. Our international operations accounted for approximately $4.4 billion and $10.1 billion of our total revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to $4.0 billion and $8.6 billion of our gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , respectively. Total revenues in 2018 compared to gross profit in 2017 attributable to our international operations increased by 11.0% and 17.5% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 14% and 15% , respectively). Total revenues in 2018 compared to gross profit in 2017 attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by 7.7% and 12.5% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , due to growth in all of our U.S. businesses. In addition, the adjustment to reverse a portion of OpenTable's loyalty program liability had a favorable impact on total revenues attributable to our U.S. businesses for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of approximately $27 million . Operating Expenses Marketing Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Performance marketing $ 1,314,055 $ 1,231,074 6.7 % $ 3,562,155 $ 3,364,589 5.9 % % of Total revenues in 2018 / % of Gross profit in 2017 27.1 % 28.1 % 31.5 % 34.8 % Brand marketing $ 160,126 $ 125,877 27.2 % $ 385,262 $ 337,016 14.3 % % of Total revenues in 2018 / % of Gross profit in 2017 3.3 % 2.9 % 3.4 % 3.5 % We rely on performance marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. Performance marketing expenses consist primarily of the costs of: (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; and (4) other performance-based marketing and incentives. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , performance marketing expenses increased compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , to generate increased gross bookings and revenue. We adjust our performance marketing spend based on our growth and profitability objectives and the expected performance of our performance marketing channels. Performance marketing as a percentage of total revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 decreased compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 due to increased performance marketing ROIs and changes in the share of traffic by channel. We recognize the substantial majority of our performance marketing expenses as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which the associated reservations are booked. In contrast, we generally do not recognize revenue from these reservations until the travel is completed or, for periods beginning after December 31, 2017, until the travel begins, which can be in a quarter other than when the reservations are booked. In addition, we may from time to time, as we did over the past five quarters, pursue a strategy of improving our performance marketing ROIs, which could negatively impact growth and positively impact performance marketing efficiency and profitability. Brand marketing expenses consist primarily of television advertising, online video advertising (including the airing of our television advertising online) and online display advertising, as well as other marketing spend such as public relations, trade shows and sponsorships. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , brand marketing expenses increased by 27.2% and 14.3% compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , respectively, primarily due to increased 49 brand marketing expenses at Booking.com in order to increase brand awareness and grow the number of customers that come directly to the Booking.com website and mobile app. We have changed the presentation of advertising expenses and sales and marketing expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 1 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Sales and Other Expenses Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Sales and other expenses $ 242,974 $ 151,024 60.9 % $ 612,367 $ 382,538 60.1 % % of Total revenues in 2018 / % of Gross profit in 2017 5.0 % 3.4 % 5.4 % 4.0 % Sales and other expenses consist primarily of: (1) credit card and other payment processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for customer chargebacks associated with merchant transactions; (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables; and (5) customer relations costs. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , sales and other expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 due primarily to increased transaction volumes (primarily, increased merchant transaction volumes at Booking.com), higher bad debt expense related to accommodation commission receivables and higher customer chargebacks. We have changed the presentation of advertising expenses and sales and marketing expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 1 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Personnel Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Personnel $ 536,735 $ 483,438 11.0 % $ 1,557,872 $ 1,220,176 27.7 % % of Total revenues in 2018 / % of Gross profit in 2017 11.1 % 11.0 % 13.8 % 12.6 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation, payroll taxes, and employee health and other benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , primarily due to increases in aggregate salaries of approximately $39 million and $185 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, primarily related to headcount growth to support our businesses. Stock-based compensation was $70.1 million and $216.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, compared to $66.4 million and $192.2 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , respectively. Headcount increased, primarily at Booking.com, in the areas of information technology to support various business initiatives, such as alternative accommodations, marketing, payments and in-destination experiences, and customer service to support transaction growth. 50 General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change General and administrative $ 183,228 $ 142,823 28.3 % $ 504,120 $ 422,252 19.4 % % of Total revenues in 2018 / % of Gross profit in 2017 3.8 % 3.3 % 4.5 % 4.4 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) personnel-related expenses such as travel, relocation, recruiting and training expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , primarily due to an accrual for travel transaction taxes of approximately $29 million related to prior periods recognized in the third quarter of 2018 (see Note 12 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements), higher occupancy and office expenses associated with increased headcount to support the expansion of our international businesses, as well as the fair value adjustment to the contingent liability related to an acquisition of $7.9 million recognized in the third quarter of 2018. These increases were partially offset by a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $6.1 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the third quarter of 2018 based on a favorable ruling in the State of California. Information Technology Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Information technology $ 57,742 $ 47,901 20.5 % $ 177,133 $ 132,677 33.5 % % of Total revenues in 2018 / % of Gross profit in 2017 1.2 % 1.1 % 1.6 % 1.4 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; (3) outsourced data center costs; and (4) payments to outside consultants. Information technology expenses increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , due primarily to increased software fees and data center and cloud costs. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Depreciation and amortization $ 107,641 $ 95,910 12.2 % $ 317,397 $ 265,212 19.7 % % of Total revenues in 2018 / % of Gross profit in 2017 2.2 % 2.2 % 2.8 % 2.7 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation of computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , primarily as a result of increased depreciation expenses due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build-outs to support growth and geographic expansion and increased capitalized software development costs. 51 Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Interest income $ 48,641 $ 41,483 17.3 % $ 141,210 $ 110,296 28.0 % Interest expense (68,170 ) (66,338 ) 2.8 % (203,242 ) (182,997 ) 11.1 % Net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities 30,858 N/A 107,221 N/A Foreign currency transactions and other (17,072 ) (10,101 ) 69.0 % (40,174 ) (21,249 ) 89.1 % Total $ (5,743 ) $ (34,956 ) (83.6 )% $ 5,015 $ (93,950 ) (105.3 )% For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , interest income increased, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , primarily due to the growing impact of our multi-currency notional cash pooling structure launched in 2017, which enables the Company to aggregate and invest daily operating cash in money market funds. In addition, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , the increase in interest income, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , was also due to higher yields in cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest expense increased for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , primarily attributable to our borrowings under our multi-currency notional cash pooling structure and our Senior Notes issued in August 2017, partially offset by the maturity of our 1.0% Convertible Senior Notes in March 2018 (see Note 8 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are related to our equity investments in Ctrip.com International Ltd. ("Ctrip") and Meituan Dianping. Our investment in Meituan Dianping became classified as marketable equity securities as a result of its initial public offering in September 2018. Pursuant to the adoption of the accounting update on financial instruments in the first quarter of 2018, changes in fair value of marketable equity securities are recognized in net income for periods beginning after December 31, 2017, rather than accumulated other comprehensive income. See Note 1 and Note 5 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Foreign currency transactions and other includes foreign currency gains or losses on derivative contracts, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, including costs related to foreign currency transactions, net realized gains or losses on investments and other income or expense. Foreign currency transaction losses, including costs related to foreign currency transactions, resulted in foreign currency losses of $16.4 million and $36.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , respectively, and foreign currency losses of $8.4 million and $21.4 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , respectively. Income Taxes Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Income tax expense $ 473,268 $ 346,454 36.6 % $ 850,934 $ 561,349 51.6 % % of Earnings before income taxes 21.1 % 16.8 % 20.2 % 16.2 % Our 2018 effective tax rates differ from the 2018 U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% , primarily due to the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax and current year excess tax benefits recognized from the vesting of equity awards, partially offset by the effect of higher international tax rates and U.S. federal and state tax associated with our current year international earnings, resulting from the introduction of the Tax Act, as well as certain nondeductible expenses. Our 2017 effective tax rates differ from the 2017 U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% , primarily as a result of lower international tax rates and current year excess tax benefits recognized from the vesting of equity awards, partially offset by certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rates were higher for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , primarily as a result of U.S. federal and state tax associated with our current year international earnings, resulting from the introduction of the Tax Act, and the increase in the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax rate from 5% to 7% as disclosed below. 52 A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment under Dutch tax law, which had a significant beneficial impact on the Company's effective tax rate for those periods. While we expect Booking.com to continue to qualify for Innovation Box Tax treatment with respect to a portion of its earnings for the foreseeable future, the loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit, whether due to a change in tax law or a determination by the Dutch government that Booking.com's activities are not "innovative" or for any other reason, would substantially increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our results of operations. During December 2017, legislation was enacted in the Netherlands that increased the Innovation Box Tax rate from 5% to 7% , effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We may not be able to maintain our 'Innovation Box Tax' benefit. " 53 Liquidity and Capital Resources At September 30, 2018 , we had $16.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in marketable securities. Approximately $11.0 billion is held by our international subsidiaries and is denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars and Euros and, to a lesser extent, British Pounds Sterling and other currencies. Cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in marketable securities are comprised of U.S. and international corporate bonds, U.S. and international government securities, high-grade commercial paper, U.S. government agency securities, convertible debt securities and American Depositary Shares ("ADSs") of Ctrip, Meituan Dianping equity securities, money market funds, certificates of deposit and time deposits (see Note 6 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). As a result of the Tax Act (see Note 10 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements), we recorded a provisional transition tax liability of approximately $1.3 billion during the year ended December 31, 2017, inclusive of U.S. federal and state income taxes and international withholding taxes, net of the benefit of utilizing approximately $204 million of U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards and approximately $46 million of other U.S. tax credit carryforwards. The majority of this liability is U.S. federal income tax and will be paid over eight years. At September 30, 2018 , the remaining liability of $1.2 billion includes $1.1 billion in "Long-term U.S. transition tax liability" and approximately $93 million in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities" in the Unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet. In accordance with the Tax Act, generally future repatriation of our international cash will not be subject to a U.S. federal income tax liability as a dividend, but will be subject to U.S. state income taxes and international withholding taxes. In April 2018, we paid $139.4 million, net of cash acquired, and issued shares of our common stock in an amount of $110.4 million in connection with an acquisition of a local activities and experiences booking software provider. In July 2018, we invested $500 million in preferred shares of Didi Chuxing, the leading mobile transportation and ride-hailing platform in China. In October 2018, we invested $200 million in preferred shares of Grab, the leading on-demand transportation and mobile service platform in Southeast Asia. In July 2018, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire a hotel meta-search company and will pay approximately $140 million in cash in connection with this acquisition. The transaction is expected to close later this year, subject to regulatory approval and other closing conditions. In June 2015, we entered into a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.50% ; or (ii) the greatest of (a) Bank of America, N.A.'s prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% , and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00% , plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50% . Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.085% to 0.20% . The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $70.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50.0 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. At September 30, 2018 , there were no borrowings outstanding and approximately $4.7 million of letters of credit issued under the facility. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, in connection with the maturity of the remaining outstanding 2018 Notes, we paid $714.3 million to satisfy the aggregate principal amount due and paid an additional $773.2 million in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount. In the first quarter of 2018, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $8.0 billion of our common stock, in addition to amounts previously authorized. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , we repurchased 2,095,017 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $4.2 billion . At September 30, 2018 , we had a remaining aggregate amount of $6.4 billion authorized by our Board of Directors to repurchase our common stock. We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. In September 2016, we signed a turnkey agreement for approximately 270 million Euros to construct an office building for Booking.coms headquarters in the Netherlands. Upon signing this agreement, we paid approximately 48 million Euros to the developer, which included approximately 43 million Euros for the acquired land-use rights and approximately 5 million Euros for the building construction. The remaining 222 million Euro obligation related to the turnkey agreement principally relates to the building construction cost. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we paid 61 million Euros (approximately $74 million ) related to our obligation under the turnkey agreement and have a 161 million Euro 54 obligation remaining as of September 30, 2018, which will be paid periodically until early 2021 when we anticipate construction will be complete. In addition to the turnkey agreement, we are obligated to pay approximately 78 million Euros over the term of the acquired land lease, which expires in 2065. We will also make additional capital expenditures to fit out and furnish the office space. See Note 12 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash Flow Analysis Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $4.3 billion , resulting from net income of $3.4 billion , a favorable impact of $571.3 million for non-cash items and a favorable impact of $330.7 million for changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $200.7 million , primarily related to an increase in prepayments to travel service providers of approximately $106 million and the remaining balance of prepayments, principally by Booking.com, of Netherlands income taxes of approximately $62 million to earn prepayment discounts. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , accounts receivable increased by $450.1 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $1.0 billion , primarily related to seasonality and increases in business volumes. Due to the typical seasonality of our business, our gross bookings and revenues are generally higher in the third quarter of the year than in the fourth quarter of the year which typically results in higher accounts receivable, deferred merchant bookings, accounts payable and accrued expenses at September 30 compared to December 31. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation, the provision for uncollectible accounts, amortization and net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $3.5 billion , resulting from net income of $2.9 billion and a favorable impact of $535.5 million for non-cash items and favorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $56.7 million . For the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $136.3 million , primarily related to an increase in prepayments to travel service providers of approximately $46 million and the remaining balance of prepayments, principally by Booking.com, of Netherlands income taxes of approximately $39 million to earn prepayment discounts. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , accounts receivable increased by $479.2 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $641.0 million , primarily related to seasonality and increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, and amortization of debt discount on our convertible notes. Net cash provided by investing activities was $1.8 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , principally resulting from net sales of investments of $2.3 billion , partially offset by acquisitions and other investments, net of cash acquired, of $139.4 million . Net cash used in investing activities was $3.6 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , principally resulting from net purchases of investments of $2.9 billion and acquisitions and other investments, net of cash acquired, of $552.8 million. Cash invested in the purchase of property and equipment was $356.0 million and $223.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Cash invested in the purchase of property and equipment for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 includes payments of approximately $72 million related to the turnkey agreement for constructing Booking.com's future headquarters during the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Net cash used in financing activities was $5.6 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , which primarily consisted of payments for the repurchase of common stock of $4.1 billion and payments for the conversion of Senior Notes of $1.5 billion . Net cash provided by financing activities was $821.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , which primarily consisted of total proceeds of $2.0 billion from the issuance of Senior Notes, partially offset by payments for repurchase of common stock of $1.1 billion , payments related to the conversion of Senior Notes of $89.6 million and payment of debt of $15.1 million assumed in the acquisition of the Momondo Group. . 55 Contingencies French tax authorities conducted an audit of the years 2003 through 2012 to determine whether Booking.com is in compliance with its tax obligations in France. Booking.com received formal assessments in December 2015 in which the French tax authorities claim that Booking.com has a permanent establishment in France and seek to recover unpaid income taxes and value-added taxes of approximately 356 million Euros, the majority of which would represent penalties and interest. We believe that Booking.com has been, and continues to be, in compliance with French tax law and we are contesting the assessments. Our objection to the assessment was denied by the French tax authorities. If we are unable to resolve the matter with the French tax authorities, we would expect to challenge the assessments in the French courts. In order to contest the assessments in court, we may be required to pay, upfront, the full amount or a significant part of any such assessments, though such payment would not constitute an admission by us that we owe the taxes. Alternatively, any resolution or settlement of the matter with the French tax authorities may also require a payment as part of such resolution or settlement. In each case, any such payment would not necessarily constitute an admission by us that we owe the taxes. French tax authorities have begun a similar audit of the tax years 2013 through 2015, which could result in additional assessments. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At September 30, 2018 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Sections of this Form 10-Q including, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above and the Risk Factors contained in Part II Item 1A hereof, contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Part II Item 1A, Risk Factors. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 , and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.