Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In thousands, except per share amounts) Total revenues $ 4,355,610 $ 3,084,905 $ 2,338,212 $ 1,884,806 $ 1,409,409 Cost of revenues 1,275,730 1,175,934 1,077,449 928,835 769,997 Gross profit 3,079,880 1,908,971 1,260,763 955,971 639,412 Total operating expenses (1) 1,680,958 1,122,174 789,928 666,497 501,477 Operating income (1) 1,398,922 786,797 470,835 289,474 137,935 Total other expense 31,128 40,514 28,533 13,369 16,074 Income tax (expense) benefit (2) (308,663 ) (218,141 ) 47,168 (90,171 ) 23,537 Equity in income (loss) income of investees 2 (310 ) (321 ) Net income (1)(2) 1,059,131 528,142 489,472 185,624 145,077 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (3) 2,760 601 3,378 4,679 Net income applicable to common stockholders (1)(2) 1,056,371 527,541 489,472 182,246 138,843 Net income applicable to common stockholders per basic common share (1)(2) 21.27 11.00 11.54 4.64 3.69 Net income applicable to common stockholders per diluted share (1)(2) 20.63 10.35 9.88 3.74 3.05 Total assets 3,970,671 2,905,953 1,834,224 1,312,421 1,334,017 Long-term obligations, redeemable noncontrolling interests and redeemable preferred stock (4) 788,218 621,624 263,708 459,928 724,144 Total liabilities 1,191,971 1,046,828 476,610 538,520 672,492 Total stockholders equity 2,574,295 1,813,336 1,321,629 698,826 453,625 _____________________________ (1) The Company recorded a $55.4 million expense related to a litigation settlement in 2007. (2) The Company recorded non-cash income tax benefits for the year ended December 31, 2009, resulting from the reversal of a portion of its valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards of $183.3 million. The Company also recorded income tax benefits in the year ended December 31, 2007 amounting to $47.9 million resulting from a reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to domestic net operating loss carryfowards generated from operating losses. (3) In September 2008, the Company repurchased all of the remaining outstanding shares underlying noncontrolling interests in Priceline.com International Limited. Redeemable noncontrolling interests beginning in 2010 relates to the Company's purchase of rentalcars.com in May 2010. In April 2011, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2011, the redeemable noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com were reduced from 24.4% to 19.0%. (4) Includes convertible debt which is classified as a current liability. 32 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in this Form 10-K. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," this discussion contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in "Risk Factors." Overview We are a leading online travel company that offers our customers hotel room reservations at over 210,000 hotels worldwide through the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands. In the United States, we also offer our customers reservations for car rentals, airline tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises through the priceline.com brand. We offer car rental reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com (formerly known as TravelJigsaw), which we acquired in May 2010. We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include the Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com companies. Our principal goal is to serve our customers with worldwide leadership in online hotel and rental car reservations. Our business is driven primarily by international results. During the year ended December 31, 2011, our international business (the significant majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 78% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately 88% of our consolidated operating income. Given that the business of our international operations is primarily comprised of hotel reservation services, gross profit earned in connection with the reservation of hotel room nights represents a substantial majority of our gross profit. Our priceline.com brand in the U.S. offers merchant Name Your Own Price travel services (sometimes referred to as "opaque" travel services), which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue. Retail, or price-disclosed, travel services offered by both our U.S. and international brands are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between Name Your Own Price and retail travel services. Gross profit reflects the net margin earned for both our Name Your Own Price and retail travel services. Consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business. At present, we derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from price-disclosed hotel room reservations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our price-disclosed merchant hotel room and rental car reservation services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our Name Your Own Price hotel room reservation, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as our vacation packages service; Global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees related to both our Name Your Own Price airline ticket, hotel room reservation and rental car services, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car services; and Other gross profit derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites. Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in the number of hotel room night reservations booked through our hotel reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the high growth of travel overall in emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America, and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build hotel supply, content and distribution and to improve the customer experience on our websites. We experienced exceptionally strong year-over-year growth during 2011. However, given the sheer size of our hotel reservation business, we believe it is highly likely that our year-over-year growth rates will generally decelerate on a quarterly sequential basis in the future. Thus far during the first quarter of 2012, we experienced deceleration in year-over-year hotel room night reservation growth as compared to the year-over-year growth rate 33 Table of Contents in the fourth quarter of 2011. We expect to experience further deceleration in growth rates throughout 2012 and beyond. In addition, many governments around the world, including the U.S. and certain European governments, are operating at very large financial deficits. Governmental austerity measures aimed at reducing deficits could impair the economic recovery and adversely affect travel demand. Weak economic growth and elevated unemployment rates in the economies of such countries could cause, contribute to, or be indicative of, deteriorating macro-economic conditions. Recently, we have experienced volatility in the growth rates for transactions booked and cancellations for our international business. We have also observed a decline in transaction growth rates and weaker trends in hotel average daily rates ("ADRs") for certain southern European countries, likely due to the impact of weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns. This volatility makes it more difficult to predict longer-term trends and the future impact of macro-economic weakness on our business. Finally, higher oil prices are contributing to higher airline ticket prices and are likely to adversely impact consumer discretionary funds available to be spent on travel. Large, established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating - and intend to further create - inroads into online travel, both in the U.S. and internationally. For example, following its acquisition of ITA Software, Inc., a major flight information software company, Google recently launched a new flight search tool that enables users to find fares, schedules and availability directly on Google and excludes online travel agent ("OTA") participation within the search results. Google has also invested in HomeAway, a publicly traded vacation home rental service, and launched "Hotel Finder," a utility that allows users to search and compare hotel accommodations based on parameters set by the user. In addition, Microsoft has launched Bing Travel , which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online and predicts the best time to purchase them. "Meta-search" sites leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the searcher's specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers. Furthermore, certain suppliers limit OTA participation within the meta-search results. Some meta-search sites, such as Kayak.com, which offers its users the ability to make hotel reservations directly on its website, may evolve into more traditional online travel sites. These initiatives, among others, illustrate a clear intention to more directly appeal to travel consumers by showing consumers more detailed travel search results, including specific information for travelers' own itineraries, which could lead to suppliers or others gaining a larger share of search traffic or may ultimately lead to search engines maintaining transactions within their own websites. If Google, as the single largest search engine in the world, or Bing, or other leading search engines refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, it could result in, among other things, more competition from supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Several major hotel companies, including Choice Hotels International, Hilton Worldwide, Hyatt, InterContinental Hotels Group, Wyndham Hotel Group and Marriott, have launched Room Key, a hotel search engine that competes directly with our hotel room night reservations services around the world. The hotel companies that own Room Key have a stated goal of driving demand directly to their brand web sites, thus reducing the share received by online travel agencies. They may also attempt to improve their competitive position by offering lower room rates, better room availability or additional features or amenities through Room Key than are available through services like ours. If Room Key is successful, our share of the online hotel room night reservation market could be negatively affected in the United States and around the world and our business could suffer. Hotels also are increasingly offering hotel room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social, which sell coupons to customers at a substantial discount. Expedia recently entered into a partnership with Groupon to sell hotel room reservations to Groupon customers under the "Groupon Getaways" brand name. If these new services are successful, we may experience less demand for our services and are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. International Trends . The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet adoption rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the United States. However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. We expect that over the long-term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel suppliers in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. Our growth has primarily been generated by our international hotel reservation service brands, Booking.com and Agoda. Booking.com, our most significant brand, currently includes over 185,000 hotels and accommodations on its website as compared to about 120,000 hotels and accommodations last year (updated hotel counts are 34 Table of Contents available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added hotels over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from both a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the top online hotel reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. As our international operations have become significant contributors to our results and international hotel bookings have become of increased importance to our earnings, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in certain of our operating expenses and other financial metrics. For example, because Booking.com and Agoda utilize online search and affiliate marketing as the principal means of generating traffic to their websites, our online advertising expense has increased significantly over recent years, a trend we expect to continue throughout 2012 and beyond. In addition, certain newer markets in which we operate that are i n earlier stages of development have lower operating margins compared to more mature markets, which could have a negative impact on our overall margins as these markets increase in size over time. Also, we intend to continue to invest in hotel additions. Many of these newer properties we add, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms or lower ADRs, and may appeal to a smaller subset of customers (for example, hostels and bed and breakfasts) and therefore may also negatively impact our margins over time. Another impact of the growing importance of Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com is our increased exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. Because we are conducting a significant and growing portion of our business outside the United States and are reporting our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation. A strengthening of the Euro increases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars, while a weakening of the Euro decreases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars. Greece, Ireland, Portugal and certain other European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt have had difficulty refinancing their debt. Concern around devaluation or abandonment of the Euro common currency, or that sovereign default risk may be more widespread and could include the U.S., has led to significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the U.S. dollar and other currencies. We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results. However, such derivative instruments are short term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuation that could impact our foreign currency denominated gross bookings, revenue or gross profit (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). For example, while revenue from our international operations grew on a local currency basis by approximately 70% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010, as a result of the positive impact of currency exchange rates, revenue from our international operations as reported in U.S. Dollars grew 79% year-over-year. Domestic Trends . Competition in domestic online travel remains intense and traditional online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantage. In particular, the competition to provide "opaque" hotel services to consumers, an area in which priceline.com has been a leader, has become more intense over the recent past. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2010, Expedia began making opaque hotel room reservations available on its principal website under the name "Expedia Unpublished Rates" and has been supporting the initiative with a national television advertising campaign. In addition, in 2009, Travelocity launched an opaque price-disclosed hotel booking service that allows customers to book rooms at a discount. As with our Name Your Own Price hotel booking service, for these services, the name of the hotel is not disclosed until after purchase. We believe these new offerings, in particular Expedia Unpublished Rates, have adversely impacted the market share and year-over-year growth rate for our opaque hotel service, which experienced a modest decline in room night reservations in 2011 compared to 2010. In addition, hotels are increasingly offering discounted hotel room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social. If Expedia or Travelocity are successful in growing their opaque hotel service, and/or "daily deal" websites are successful in garnering a sizable share of discounted hotel bookings, we may have less consumer demand for our opaque hotel service over time and we are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. As a result, we believe our share of the discount hotel market in the U.S. could further decrease. We believe that for a number of reasons, including the recent significant year-over-year increase in retail airfares, consumers are engaging in increased shopping behavior before making a travel purchase than they engaged in previously. Increased shopping behavior reduces our advertising efficiency and effectiveness because traffic becomes less likely to result in a purchase on our website, and such traffic is more likely to be obtained through paid online advertising channels than through free direct channels. 35 Table of Contents While demand for online travel services in the U.S. continues to experience annualized growth, we believe that the domestic market share of third-party distributors is impacted in part by a concerted initiative by travel suppliers to direct customers to their own websites in an effort to reduce distribution expenses and establish more direct control over their pricing. The launch of Room Key discussed above is demonstrative of such efforts. In addition, certain suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online channel other than their own website. Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours. Some travel suppliers are encouraging third-party travel intermediaries, such as us, to develop technology to bypass the traditional GDSs, such as enabling direct connections to the travel suppliers or using alternative global distribution methods. For example, in 2011, we enabled a direct connection with American Airlines. During 2011, American Airlines content was temporarily unavailable on Expedia and Orbitz due to disputes related to enabling a direct connection. We believe that this is consistent with an effort on the part of American Airlines, and the airline industry in general, to reduce distribution costs and could be indicative of the airlines in general becoming more aggressive in requiring online travel agents to implement direct connections. Development and implementation of the technology to enable additional direct connections to travel suppliers could cause us to incur additional operating expenses, increase the frequency/duration of system problems and delay other projects. In addition, any additional migration toward direct connections would reduce the compensation we receive from GDSs. Domestic airlines have reduced capacity and increased fares since the latter part of 2009, a trend which may continue. Decreases in capacity reduce the amount of airline tickets available, while significant increases in average airfares over the last two years have adversely impacted leisure travel demand. Reduced airline capacity and demand negatively impact our priceline.com air business, which in turn has negative repercussions on our priceline.com hotel and rental car businesses. Our rental car business is further impacted by decreases in rental car fleets, which has negatively impacted our Name Your Own Price rental car service. We expect continued variability in the breadth and depth of discounted airline tickets and rental car rates made available to us in the future, depending on market conditions from time to time. Seasonality . A meaningful amount of retail gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. However, we do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs. From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which bookings are generated. As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for the year for our North American and European businesses. However, we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters. Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results. In addition, Our Name Your Own Price services are generally non-refundable in nature, and accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking is generated. However, we recognize revenue generated from our retail hotel services, including Booking.com and Agoda, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel. Therefore, if our retail hotel business continues to grow, we expect our quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal factors. Other Factors . We believe that our success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain profitability, primarily from our hotel business, to continue to promote the Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com brands internationally and the priceline.com brand in the United States, and, over time, to offer other travel services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, higher oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, volcanic eruptions (such as the April 2010 eruption of a volcano in Iceland), travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related accidents or the withdrawal from our system of a major hotel supplier or airline, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and impair our ability to effectively implement all or some of the initiatives described above. For example, in early 2011, Japan was struck by a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency. Japan is an important source of travel demand for Agoda, and these crises have had an adverse impact on travel demand originating in Japan and demand for Japanese destinations. In October 2011, severe flooding in Thailand, a key market for our Agoda business and the Asian business of Booking.com, negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market. In addition, in early 2010, Thailand experienced disruptive civil unrest, which caused the temporary relocation of Agoda's Thailand-based operations. Future natural disasters or civil or political unrest could further disrupt our business and operations 36 Table of Contents in Thailand. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to improve volume and sustain margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will sustain gross profit growth and profitability. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are based upon the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our significant accounting policies and estimates are more fully described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting policies and estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. In applying those policies, our management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the items described below. Those estimates are based on, among other things, historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies that involve significant estimates and judgments of management include the following: Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance . We periodically evaluate the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future income, the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. Based on management's assessment of positive and negative evidence, we recorded non-cash tax benefits in 2009 of $183.3 million, resulting from the reversal of a portion of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets. The net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2011 amounted to $147.8 million. The valuation allowance may need to be adjusted in the future if facts and circumstances change, causing a reassessment of the amount of deferred tax assets more likely than not to be realized. Accounting for State and Local "Hotel Occupancy" Taxes . As discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are currently involved in over fifty lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and our "merchant" hotel business. We are also involved in one consumer lawsuit relating to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy taxes and service fees. In addition, over sixty municipalities or counties, and at least six states, have initiated audit proceedings (including proceedings initiated by more than forty municipalities in California), issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax). Additional state and local jurisdictions are likely to assert that we are subject to, among other things, hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and could seek to collect such taxes, retroactively and/or prospectively. Historically, we have not collected hotel occupancy or other taxes on the gross profit earned from "merchant" hotel transactions; however, in a handful of jurisdictions, we have been recently required by passage of a new statute or court order, to start collecting and remitting certain taxes (local occupancy and/or sales tax) imposed upon our margin and/or service fee. The ultimate resolution of these matters in all jurisdictions cannot be determined at this time. We have established an accrual for potential resolution of issues related to hotel occupancy and other taxes for prior and current periods, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances. We accrue for legal contingencies where it is probable that a loss has occurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated; our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. A variety of factors could affect the amount of the liability (both past and future), which factors include, but are not limited to, the number of, and amount of gross profit represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement and changes in relevant statutes. The ultimate resolution of these matters may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. 37 Table of Contents Stock-Based Compensation. We record stock-based compensation expense for equity-based awards over the recipient's service period based upon the grant date fair value of the award. A number of our equity awards have performance targets (a performance "contingency") which, if satisfied, can increase the number of shares issued to the recipients at the end of the performance period or, in certain instances, if not satisfied, reduce the number of shares issued to the recipients, sometimes to zero, at the end of the performance period. The performance periods for our performance based equity awards are typically three years. We record stock-based compensation expense for these performance-based awards based upon our estimate of the probable outcome at the end of the performance period (i.e., the estimated performance against the performance targets). We periodically adjust the cumulative stock-based compensation recorded when the probable outcome for these performance-based awards is updated based upon changes in actual and forecasted operating results. Stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 includes charges amounting to $10.3 million and $13.4 million , respectively, representing the cumulative impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome of unvested performance share units. Our actual performance against the performance targets could differ materially from our estimates. We record stock-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures. In determining the estimated forfeiture rates, we periodically review actual and projected forfeitures. To the extent that actual or projected forfeiture rates differ from current estimates, such amounts are recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which the estimate is revised. Valuation of Goodwill . We have recorded goodwill related to businesses we have acquired. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment using appropriate valuation techniques. In the event that future circumstances indicate that any portion of our goodwill is impaired, an impairment charge would be recorded. A substantial amount of our goodwill relates to our acquisition of Booking.com. The estimated fair value for Booking.com, as well as our other reporting units, is substantially in excess of their respective carrying values. Since the annual impairment test in September 2011, there have been no events or changes in circumstances to indicate a potential impairment. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles. We evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate that the carrying amounts of long-lived assets and intangibles may be impaired. The significant factors that are considered that could trigger an impairment review include changes in business strategies, market conditions, or the manner of use of an asset; under performance relative to historical or expected future operating results; and negative industry or economic trends. In evaluating an asset for possible impairment, management estimates that asset's future undiscounted cash flows to measure whether the carrying value of the asset is recoverable. If it is determined that the asset is not recoverable, we measure the impairment based upon the fair value of the asset compared to its carrying value. The fair value represents the projected discounted cash flows of the asset over its remaining life. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued guidance for new disclosure requirements regarding a company's rights of offset and related arrangements associated with financial instruments and derivative instruments. The new disclosures are designed to make financial statements that were prepared under U.S. GAAP more comparable to those prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"). The new disclosure requirements are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods therein. Retrospective application is required. In September 2011, the FASB issued an accounting update, which amends the guidance on testing goodwill for impairment. Under the revised guidance, entities testing goodwill for impairment have the option of performing a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the reporting unit. If, based on the qualitative factors, it is more-likely-than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then the unchanged two-step approach previously used would be required. The new accounting guidance does not change how goodwill is calculated, how goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit, or the requirements for testing goodwill annually or when events and circumstances warrant testing. The accounting update is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption of the update is permitted. During the three months ended September 30, 2011, we performed our annual quantitative goodwill impairment testing, and concluded that the estimated fair value for each reporting unit substantially exceeds its respective carrying value. This new accounting guidance will not have a significant impact on us. 38 Table of Contents In June 2010, the FASB issued amended accounting guidance on the presentation of other comprehensive income in financial statements by requiring comprehensive income to be reported in either a single statement or in two consecutive statements reporting net income and other comprehensive income. This accounting update also required reclassification adjustments out of other comprehensive income to be presented in both the income statement and the statement in which other comprehensive income is presented, both in interim and annual periods. In December 2011, the FASB issued another accounting update which indefinitely defers the requirement to separately present reclassification adjustments on the face of the financial statements. During the deferral period, a company that does not display reclassification adjustments on the face of the financial statements must disclose such adjustments in the notes to the financial statements. The accounting guidance did not change the items that constitute net income or other comprehensive income, the timing of when other comprehensive income is reclassified to net income, or the earnings per share computation. The accounting update requires retrospective application. Public entities will be required to adopt the guidance for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. We intend to comply with the change in presentation of other comprehensive income in the financial statements beginning in the first quarter of 2012. In May 2010, the FASB issued amended guidance on fair value to largely achieve common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements between U.S. GAAP and IFRS. The new accounting guidance does not extend the use of fair value but rather provides guidance about how fair value should be determined. For U.S. GAAP, most of the changes are clarifications of existing guidance or wording changes to align with IFRS. Amendments that clarify the Board's intent under existing requirements include: (a) use of the highest and best use and valuation premise concept should be limited to nonfinancial assets; (b) disclosure should include quantitative information about the unobservable inputs used in a fair value measurement that is categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy; and (c) the fair value of an instrument classified in an entity's equity should be valued from the perspective of a market participant that holds that instrument as an asset. The amended guidance changes requirements as follows: (a) disclosures are expanded, particularly those relating to fair value measurements based on unobservable inputs, (b) fair value measurements for financial assets and liabilities based on a net position are permitted if market or credit risks are managed on a net basis and other criteria are met, and (c) premiums and discounts are allowed only if a market participant would also include them in the fair value measurement. This accounting update is effective for public companies for interim or annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. We expect to make the additional disclosures required in 2012. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking activity generated by our travel services. Specifically, reservations of hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units purchased by our customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers, and is widely used in the travel business. International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings for our international brands and operations, and domestic gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings by our domestic operations, in each case without regard to the travel destination or the location of the customer purchasing the travel. Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our domestic and international operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Change Domestic $4.748 billion $4.166 billion 14.0 % International 16.909 billion 9.480 billion 78.4 % Total $21.658 billion $13.646 billion 58.7 % Gross bookings increased by 58.7% for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, principally due to 52.6% growth in hotel room night reservation. The 78.4% increase in international gross bookings (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 70%) was attributable to growth in international hotel room night reservations for 39 Table of Contents our Booking.com and Agoda businesses, as well as higher average daily rates ("ADRs") charged for hotel stays and growth in international car reservations for our rentalcars.com business, which was acquired in May 2010. Domestic gross bookings increased by 14.0% for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to growth in gross bookings from our price-disclosed airline ticket and hotel room night reservation services and our Name Your Own Price hotel room night and airline ticket reservation services. Higher ADRs drove growth in gross bookings related to our Name Your Own Price hotel business despite a modest year-over-year decline in Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations for the year ended December 31, 2011. Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Change Agency $17.610 billion $10.781 billion 63.3 % Merchant 4.048 billion 2.864 billion 41.3 % Total $21.658 billion $13.646 billion 58.7 % Agency gross bookings increased 63.3% for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, due to growth in the sale of Booking.com hotel room night reservations. Our U.S. priceline.com business experienced growth in reservations of agency price-disclosed hotel room nights, airline tickets and rental car days. Merchant gross bookings increased 41.3% for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, due to an increase in gross bookings from our Agoda hotel room night reservation service, our rentalcars.com rental car reservation service, our priceline.com merchant price-disclosed hotel room night reservation service and our Name Your Own Price hotel room night, airline ticket and rental car reservation services. Higher ADRs drove growth in gross bookings related to our Name Your Own Price hotel business despite a modest year-over-year decline in Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations for the year ended December 31, 2011. Year Ended Hotel Room Nights Rental Car Days Airline Tickets December 31, 2011 141.6 million 23.8 million 6.2 million December 31, 2010 92.8 million 16.3 million 5.9 million Hotel room night reservations sold increased by 52.6% for the year ended December 31, 2011, over the same period in 2010, principally due to an increase in the sale of Booking.com, Agoda and priceline.com price-disclosed hotel room night reservations, partially offset by a modest decline in Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations. Booking.com, our most significant brand, currently includes over 185,000 hotels and accommodations on its website as compared to about 120,000 hotels and accommodations last year (updated hotel counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added hotels over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate. Our U.S. priceline.com price-disclosed hotel room night reservations benefited from the integration of U.S. hotels from the Booking.com extranet on the priceline.com website. Rental car days sold increased by 45.6% for the year ended December 31, 2011, over the same period in 2010, primarily due to the inclusion of rental car day reservations from rentalcars.com, which we acquired in May 2010, as well as an increase in Name Your Own Price rental car reservations. Airline tickets sold increased by 5.7% for the year ended December 31, 2011, over the same period in 2010, due to an increase in both price-disclosed and Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservations. 40 Table of Contents Revenues Merchant revenues are derived from transactions where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer's credit card for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations, rental cars and airline tickets and price-disclosed vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in connection with (a) the hotel room reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service in the U.S. and at Agoda, and (b) the rental car reservations provided through our merchant semi-opaque rental car service at rentalcars.com, which allows customers to see the price of the reservation prior to purchase but not the identity of the supplier; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of Name Your Own Price airline tickets, hotel room reservations and rental cars and merchant price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above and customer processing fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Principally all of the revenue for Booking.com is comprised of travel commissions. Other revenues are derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites. Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Merchant Revenues $ 2,004,432 $ 1,691,640 18.5 % Agency Revenues 2,339,253 1,380,603 69.4 % Other Revenues 11,925 12,662 (5.8 )% Total Revenues $ 4,355,610 $ 3,084,905 41.2 % Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased 18.5% , compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to an increase in merchant revenues from our Agoda price-disclosed hotel room night reservation service, our rentalcars.com rental car reservation service, our Name Your Own Price airline ticket and hotel room night reservation services and our priceline.com price-disclosed hotel room night reservation service. Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased 69.4% compared to the same period in 2010, primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com. Our U.S. agency hotel room night reservations benefited from the integration of U.S. hotels from the Booking.com extranet on the priceline.com website. Other Revenues Other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2011 consisted primarily of advertising. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased 5.8% compared to the same period in 2010. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Cost of Revenues $ 1,275,730 $ 1,175,934 8.5 % % of Merchant Revenues 63.6 % 69.5 % 41 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2011, cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of Name Your Own Price rental cars from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes; and (3) the cost of Name Your Own Price airline tickets, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by 8.5% , compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to the increase in Name Your Own Price revenues discussed above. Merchant price-disclosed hotel room and car rental reservations are recorded in merchant revenues net of the amounts paid to suppliers and therefore, there is no associated cost of revenues for merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues. Cost of revenues as a percentage of their associated merchant revenues decreased primarily due to the increase in merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues and the addition of rentalcars.com merchant revenue, all of which are recorded on a "net" basis. Agency revenues are recorded at their net amount, which are amounts received less amounts paid to suppliers, if any, and therefore, there are no costs of agency revenues. Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Gross Profit $ 3,079,880 $ 1,908,971 61.3 % Gross Margin 70.7 % 61.9 % Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by 61.3% compared to the same period in 2010, primarily as a result of increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010 because Name Your Own Price revenues, which are recorded "gross" with a corresponding cost of revenue, represented a smaller percentage of total revenues compared to retail, price-disclosed revenues which are primarily recorded "net" with no corresponding cost of revenues. Because Name Your Own Price transactions are reported "gross" and retail transactions are primarily recorded on a "net" basis, we believe that gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $2.6 billion of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2011, which compares to approximately $1.4 billion for the same period in 2010. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 70% in the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010. Operating Expenses Advertising Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Online Advertising $ 919,214 $ 552,140 66.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 29.8 % 28.9 % Offline Advertising $ 35,470 $ 35,714 (0.7 )% % of Total Gross Profit 1.2 % 1.9 % Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; (4) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (5) e-mail campaigns. For the year ended December 31, 2011, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2010, primarily to support increased hotel room night reservations for Booking.com and Agoda, increased rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and increased hotel room night reservations for priceline.com. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit increased for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010. The increase is driven primarily 42 Table of Contents by brand mix rather than a change in the fundamental efficiency of our advertising by brand. Our international operations are growing faster than our priceline.com business in the U.S., and spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising, a trend which we expect to continue. Furthermore, the priceline.com brand is obtaining an increasing share of its traffic through online advertising, a trend which we also expect to continue. We recognize advertising expense as incurred at the time of booking, but recognize the gross profit for price-disclosed hotel room and rental car reservations when the travel is completed. Offline advertising expenses are related to our domestic television, print and radio advertising for priceline.com. For the year ended December 31, 2011, offline advertising was flat compared to the same period in 2010. We recognize expense for production costs of advertising the first time the advertising takes place. Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Sales and Marketing $ 162,690 $ 116,303 39.9 % % of Total Gross Profit 5.3 % 6.1 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables. For the year ended December 31, 2011, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2010, primarily due to increased gross booking volumes as well as expenses related to increased content translations. Our U.S. merchant business benefited from the impact of reduced credit card processing fees resulting from Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Financial Reform and Consumer Protection Act (which amendment caps the interchange fee for debit card transactions and went into effect on October 1, 2011), partially offset by the impact of higher costs resulting from increases in foreign currency transactions and increased cancellation rates from our Agoda business. Costs associated with our U.S. priceline.com business comprise a large component of sales and marketing expenses. Our U.S. priceline.com business grew more slowly than our total gross profit, which benefited from the high growth in our international agency business, and as a result, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2011 declined compared to the same period in 2010. Personnel Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Personnel $ 352,295 $ 270,071 30.4 % % of Total Gross Profit 11.4 % 14.1 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses, payroll taxes, employee health benefits and stock-based compensation. For the year ended December 31, 2011, personnel expenses increased over the same period in 2010, due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our international businesses. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $65.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $68.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 included charges amounting to $10.3 million and $13.4 million , respectively, representing the cumulative impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period for certain outstanding unvested performance share units. 43 Table of Contents General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change General and Administrative $ 123,652 $ 81,185 52.3 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.0 % 4.3 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses; (2) occupancy expenses; and (3) personnel related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2011, over the same period in 2010, due to higher recruiting, training and travel expenses related to increased headcount at Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com. Additionally, we have significantly increased our office capacity worldwide to support continued growth in our international operations. The year ended December 31, 2010 included a favorable expense adjustment of approximately $2.7 million in connection with the resolution of certain franchise and sales and use tax issues related to our corporate headquarters location, and a charge of $1.7 million related to a court ruling in South Carolina (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details). Information Technology Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Information Technology $ 33,813 $ 20,998 61.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.1 % 1.1 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) outsourced data center costs relating to our domestic and international data centers; (2) system maintenance and software license fees; (3) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our Internet sites; and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the increase in information technology expenses compared to the same period in 2010 was due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 53,824 $ 45,763 17.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.7 % 2.4 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) amortization of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office equipment and furniture and fixtures. For the year ended December 31, 2011, depreciation expense increased from the same period in 2010 due principally to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com brand. We expect future capital expenditures to also be higher than historical prior year levels as we continue to invest to support business growth. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2011, amortization expense increased from the same period in 2010 due to acquisition-related amortization in connection with our acquisition of rentalcars.com in May 2010. 44 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Interest Income $ 8,119 $ 3,857 110.5 % Interest Expense (31,721 ) (29,944 ) 5.9 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (7,526 ) (14,427 ) (47.8 )% Total $ (31,128 ) $ (40,514 ) (23.2 )% For the year ended December 31, 2011, interest income on cash and marketable securities increased over the same period in 2010, primarily due to an increase in the average balance invested. Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to an increase in the average outstanding debt resulting from the March 2010 issuance of $575.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes, and fees on the undrawn $1 billion revolving credit facility entered into in October 2011. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operations into U.S. dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to foreign exchange gains of $2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other." Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in losses of $11.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to losses of $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other." In addition, losses of $11.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 resulted from convertible debt conversions during 2010, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other." During the fourth quarter of 2011, we began classifying certain foreign currency processing fees, amounting to $2.2 million, as an offset to revenue earned from the third party that processes the payments for merchant hotel transactions. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Income Tax Expense $ 308,663 $ 218,141 41.5 % Our effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were 22.6% and 29.2%, respectively. Our effective tax rate differs from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% principally due to lower foreign tax rates, the Innovation Box Tax benefit discussed below, and the resolution of an uncertain tax position during the second quarter of 2011. Following the conclusion of an audit, we reversed a reserve of approximately $12.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2011 for unrecognized tax benefits attributable to tax positions taken in 2010. We do not expect further significant changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits during 2012. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 is lower compared to 2010 primarily due to a higher percentage of foreign income, which is taxed at lower rates, the Innovation Box Tax benefit discussed below, and the reversal of the reserve for unrecognized tax benefits referred to above. Effective January 1, 2010, the Netherlands modified its corporate income tax law related to income generated from qualifying "innovative" activities (the "Innovation Box Tax"). Earnings that qualify for the Innovation Box Tax will effectively be taxed at the rate of 5% rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25.0%. Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities in February 2011 confirming that a portion of its earnings ("qualifying earnings") is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment. The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2013 (the "Initial Period"). In this ruling, the Dutch tax authorities require that the Innovation Box Tax benefit be phased in 45 Table of Contents over a multi-year period. The amount of qualifying earnings expressed as a percentage of the total pretax earnings in the Netherlands will vary depending upon the level of total pretax earnings that is achieved in any given year. In order to be eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment, Booking.com must, among other things, apply for and obtain a research and development ("R&D") certificate from a Dutch governmental agency every six months confirming that the activities that Booking.com intends to be engaged in over the subsequent six month period are "innovative." Should Booking.com fail to secure such a certificate in any such period - for example, because the governmental agency does not view Booking.com's new or anticipated activities as "innovative" - or should this agency determine that the activities contemplated to be performed in a prior period were not performed as contemplated or did not comply with the agency's requirements, Booking.com may lose its certificate and, as a result, the Innovation Box Tax benefit may be reduced or eliminated. Booking.com intends to reapply for continued Innovation Box Tax treatment for future periods. There can be no assurance that Booking.com's application will be accepted, or that the amount of qualifying earnings or applicable tax rates will not be reduced at that time. In addition, there can be no assurance that the tax law will not change in 2012 and/or future years resulting in a reduction or elimination of the tax benefit. The Innovation Box Tax did not have a material impact on the our 2010 results. The impact of the Innovation Box Tax for 2011 reduced our consolidated effective income tax rate by approximately four percentage points. We currently estimate that our consolidated effective tax rate for 2012 will be lower by approximately four to six percentage points compared to what it would be if we did not have the benefit of the Innovation Box Tax. Until our domestic net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, we do not expect to make tax payments on our U.S. income, except for U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our foreign income. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income at higher rates than the U.S. over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international businesses generate an increasing share of our pre-tax income. The Internal Revenue Service initiated an audit of our income taxes for the first time in the third quarter of 2011. To date, we have been audited in several taxing jurisdictions with no significant adjustments as a result. If future audits find that additional taxes are due, we may be subject to incremental tax liabilities, possibly including interest and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests $ 2,760 $ 601 359.2 % The net income attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interest for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 increased primarily due to the improved year-over-year operating performance for rentalcars.com. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Operating and Statistical Metrics Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our domestic and international operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): 46 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change Domestic $ 4.166 billion $ 3.645 billion 14.3 % International 9.480 billion 5.665 billion 67.3 % Total $ 13.646 billion $ 9.310 billion 46.6 % Gross bookings increased by 46.6% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, principally due to 52.3% growth in hotel room night reservations. The 67.3% increase in international gross bookings was attributable to growth in international hotel room night reservations for Booking.com and Agoda (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 73%). International gross bookings for the year ended December 31, 2010 include $185 million of gross bookings of TravelJigsaw gross bookings since its acquisition in May 2010. Domestic gross bookings increased by 14.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to increases in price-disclosed and Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations, and increases in average airline fares, and increases in price-disclosed and Name Your Own Price rental car days. Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change Agency $ 10.781 billion $ 7.191 billion 49.9 % Merchant 2.864 billion 2.119 billion 35.2 % Total $ 13.646 billion $ 9.310 billion 46.6 % Agency gross bookings increased 49.9% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, due to growth in the sale of Booking.com and priceline.com hotel room night reservations and an increase in average airline fares. Our U.S. agency hotel room reservations benefited from the integration of U.S. hotels from the Booking.com extranet into the priceline.com website. Merchant gross bookings increased 35.2% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, due to increases in the sale of Agoda merchant price-disclosed hotel room night reservations and priceline.com merchant price-disclosed and Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations and the inclusion of gross bookings from TravelJigsaw, which was acquired in May 2010. Year Ended Hotel Room Nights Rental Car Days Airline Tickets December 31, 2010 92.8 million 16.3 million 5.9 million December 31, 2009 60.9 million 11.2 million 5.9 million Hotel room night reservations sold increased by 52.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010, over the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the sale of Booking.com agency room night reservations, as well as an increase in the sale of Agoda price-disclosed room night reservations, priceline.com price-disclosed room night reservations and Name Your Own Price room night reservations. Rental car days sold increased by 45.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010, over the same period in 2009, primarily due to the inclusion of rental car day reservations sold by TravelJigsaw, which we acquired in May 2010, and increases in the sale of priceline.com price-disclosed rental car day reservations. Airline tickets sold were flat for the year ended December 31, 2010, over the same period in 2009, as a decline in Name Your Own Price airline tickets was partially offset by a slight increase in price-disclosed airline tickets. 47 Table of Contents Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Merchant revenues are derived from transactions where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customers credit card for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations, rental cars and airline tickets and price-disclosed vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in connection with (a) the hotel room reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service in the U.S. and at Agoda, and (b) the rental car reservations provided through our merchant semi-opaque rental car service at TravelJigsaw (which allows customers to see the price, car type and location of the reservation prior to purchase, but not the identity of the supplier); (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations. airline tickets and rental cars and merchant price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of our services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, customer processing fees and GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the agency services listed above and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Other revenues are derived primarily from advertising on our websites. Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2010 2009 Change Merchant Revenues $ 1,691,640 $ 1,447,576 16.9 % Agency Revenues 1,380,603 868,395 59.0 % Other Revenues 12,662 22,241 (43.1 )% Total Revenues $ 3,084,905 $ 2,338,212 31.9 % Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 16.9% compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the sale of Agoda and priceline.com merchant price-disclosed hotel room night reservations, Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations and the inclusion of TravelJigsaw since its acquisition in May 2010. Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 59.0% compared to the same period in 2009, primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com. Our U.S. agency hotel room reservations benefited from the integration of U.S. hotels from the Booking.com extranet into the priceline.com website. Other Revenues Other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2010 consisted primarily of advertising. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased 43.1% compared to the same period in 2009, primarily as a result of the termination of a relationship with a post-transaction online advertising partner in September 2009. 48 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2010 2009 Change Cost of Revenues $ 1,175,934 $ 1,077,449 9.1 % % of Merchant Revenues 69.5 % 74.4 % Cost of Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2010, cost of revenues consisted primarily of charges from suppliers for: (1) the cost of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations, net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of Name Your Own Price rental cars, net of applicable taxes; and (3) the cost of Name Your Own Price airline tickets, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased by 9.1%, compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to the increase in merchant revenue discussed above. Merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues in the U.S. and for Agoda and merchant semi-opaque rental car reservations for TravelJigsaw are recorded in merchant revenues net of the amounts paid to suppliers and therefore, there is no associated cost of revenues for merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues. Cost of revenues as a percentage of their associated merchant revenues decreased primarily due to the increase in merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues and the addition of TravelJigsaw merchant revenues, all of which are recorded on a "net" basis. Agency revenues are recorded at their net amount, which are amounts received less amounts paid to suppliers, if any, and therefore, there are no costs of agency revenues. Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2010 2009 Change Gross Profit $ 1,908,971 $ 1,260,763 51.4 % Gross Margin 61.9 % 53.9 % Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased by 51.4% compared to the same period in 2009, primarily as a result of increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, because Name Your Own Price revenues, which are recorded "gross" with a corresponding cost of revenue, represented a smaller percentage of total revenues compared to retail, price-disclosed agency and merchant revenues which are primarily recorded "net" with no corresponding cost of revenues. Because Name Your Own Price transactions are reported "gross" and retail transactions are primarily recorded on a "net" basis, we believe that gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $1.4 billion of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2010, which compares to approximately $848.6 million for the same period in 2009. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 77% in the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009. 49 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Advertising Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2010 2009 Change Online Advertising $ 552,140 $ 365,381 51.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 28.9 % 29.0 % Offline Advertising $ 35,714 $ 36,270 (1.5 )% % of Total Gross Profit 1.9 % 2.9 % Offline advertising expenses consist primarily of: (1) the expenses associated with domestic television, print and radio advertising; and (2) the cost for creative talent, production costs and agency fees for television, print and radio advertising. For the year ended December 31, 2010, offline advertising expenses were generally flat compared to the same period in 2009. Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) affiliate programs; (3) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (4) e-mail campaigns. For the year ended December 31, 2010, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2009, primarily to support increased gross bookings for Booking.com, Agoda and priceline.com, as well as the inclusion of online advertising expense for TravelJigsaw since its acquisition in May 2010. Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2010 2009 Change Sales and Marketing $ 116,303 $ 81,238 43.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 6.1 % 6.4 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables. For the year ended December 31, 2010, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2009, primarily due to increased credit card processing fees, third-party service costs and bad debt provision associated with increased gross booking volumes. Personnel Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2010 2009 Change Personnel $ 270,071 $ 180,152 49.9 % % of Total Gross Profit 14.1 % 14.3 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses, taxes, employee health benefits and stock-based compensation. For the year ended December 31, 2010, personnel expenses increased over the same period in 2009, primarily due to increased headcount to support the growth of our business, higher bonus accruals reflecting our strong operating performance, and the inclusion of TravelJigsaw since its acquisition in May 2010. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $68.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and $40.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Stock-based compensation for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes charges amounting to $13.4 million, representing the cumulative impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period for certain outstanding unvested performance share units. 50 Table of Contents General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2010 2009 Change General and Administrative $ 81,185 $ 68,555 18.4 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.3 % 5.4 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses; (2) occupancy expenses; and (3) personnel-related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 included a favorable adjustment of approximately $2.7 million in connection with the resolution of certain franchise tax and sales and use tax issues related to our corporate headquarters location and a charge of $1.7 million related to a court ruling in South Carolina (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details). General and administrative expenses for the same period in 2009 included a charge of $3.7 million related to a judgment in a lawsuit involving hotel occupancy taxes. Excluding these items, general and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2010, over the same period in 2009, due to professional fees incurred in the second quarter 2010 related to the acquisition of TravelJigsaw, increased personnel-related expenses and occupancy expenses to support the growth in our Booking.com and Agoda operations, and the inclusion of TravelJigsaw since its acquisition in May 2010, partially offset by a decrease in litigation expenses primarily related to hotel occupancy tax and other tax proceedings. Information Technology Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2010 2009 Change Information Technology $ 20,998 $ 19,139 9.7 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.1 % 1.5 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) system maintenance and software license fees; (2) outsourced data center costs relating to our domestic and international data centers; (3) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our Internet sites; and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the year ended December 31, 2010, information technology expenses increased compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to growth in our worldwide operations. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2010 2009 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 45,763 $ 39,193 16.8 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.4 % 3.1 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) amortization of internally developed and purchased software, (3) depreciation of computer equipment; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office equipment and furniture and fixtures. For the year ended December 31, 2010, depreciation and amortization expense increased from the same period in 2009, primarily due to acquisition-related amortization in connection with our acquisition of TravelJigsaw. 51 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2010 2009 Change Interest Income $ 3,857 $ 2,223 73.5 % Interest Expense (29,944 ) (24,084 ) 24.3 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (14,427 ) (6,672 ) 116.2 % Total $ (40,514 ) $ (28,533 ) 42.0 % For the year ended December 31, 2010, interest income increased over the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the average balance of cash and marketable securities invested. Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the average outstanding debt. "Foreign currency transactions and other" includes foreign exchange gains of $3.0 million and losses of $2.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to foreign exchange derivative contracts. Foreign exchange transaction losses including fees on foreign exchange transactions were approximately $6.1 million and $2.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The early conversion of convertible debt resulted in losses of $11.3 million and $1.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2010 2009 Change Income Tax (Expense) Benefit $ (218,141 ) $ 47,168 (562.5 )% Our effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was 29.2% and (10.7)%, respectively, and differs from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%, principally due to lower foreign tax rates, partially offset by state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2009 included a benefit of $183.3 million, resulting from the reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets relating to net operating loss carryforwards. Excluding the aforementioned $183.3 million benefit in 2009, the effective income tax rates for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased over the same period in 2009, primarily due to a higher percentage of foreign income which is taxed at lower rates. Due to our domestic net operating loss carryforwards, we do not expect to make tax payments on our U.S. income for the foreseeable future, except for U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our foreign income. We expect that Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw will grow their pretax income at higher rates than the U.S. over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will continue to increase as our international operations generate an increasing share of our pretax income. Effective January 1, 2010, the Netherlands modified its corporate income tax law related to income generated from qualifying "innovative" activities (the "Innovation Box Tax"). Earnings that qualify for the Innovation Box Tax will effectively be taxed at the rate of 5% rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25.5% (25% as of 2011). Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities in February 2011 confirming that a portion of its earnings ("qualifying earnings") is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment. The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2013 (the "Initial Period"). In this ruling, the Dutch tax authorities require that the Innovation Box Tax benefit be phased in over a multi-year period. The Innovation Box Tax did not have a material impact on our 2010 results. The amount of qualifying earnings expressed as a percentage of the total pretax earnings in the Netherlands will vary depending upon the level of total pretax earnings that is achieved in any given year. In order to be eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment, Booking.com must, among other things, apply for and obtain a research and development ("R&D) certificate from a Dutch governmental agency every six months confirming that the activities that Booking.com intends to be engaged in over the subsequent six month period are "innovative." Should Booking.com fail to secure such a certificate in any such period - for example, because the governmental agency does not view Booking.coms new or anticipated activities as "innovative" - or should this agency determine that the activities contemplated 52 Table of Contents to be performed in a prior period were not performed as contemplated or did not comply with the agencys requirements, Booking.com may lose its certificate and, as a result, the Innovation Box Tax benefit may be reduced or eliminated. After the Initial Period, Booking.com intends to reapply for continued Innovation Box Tax treatment for future periods. There can be no assurance that Booking.coms application will be accepted, or that the amount of qualifying earnings or applicable tax rates will not be reduced at that time. In addition, there can be no assurance that the tax law will not change in future years resulting in a reduction or elimination of the tax benefit. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2010 2009 Change Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests $ 601 n/a n/a Noncontrolling interests for the year ended December 31, 2010, represents the proportionate share of the net income of TravelJigsaw Holdings Limited for the period of May 18, 2010 through December 31, 2010, applicable to the noncontrolling interests (refer to Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements). Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2011, we had $2.7 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Approximately $1.6 billion of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held by our international subsidiaries and are denominated primarily in Euros and, to a lesser extent, in British Pound Sterling. We currently intend to permanently reinvest this cash in our foreign operations. We could not repatriate this cash to the U.S. without utilizing our net operating loss carryforwards and potentially incurring additional tax payments in the U.S. Cash equivalents and short-term investments are primarily comprised of foreign and U.S. government securities and bank deposits. In October 2011, we entered into a $1 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.00% to 1.50%; or (ii) the greatest of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association's prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50%. Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.10% to 0.25%. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $100.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. dollars, Euros, Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2011, there were no borrowings under the facility, and approximately $1.9 million of letters of credit were issued under the facility. Upon entering into this new revolving credit facility, we terminated our $175.0 million revolving credit facility entered into in 2007 (see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). As of December 31, 2011, we have a remaining authorization from our Board of Directors to repurchase $459.2 million of our common stock. We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital, and other factors. Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from our customers and then we pay most of our suppliers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant swings in deferred merchant bookings and supplier payables depending on the absolute level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011, was $1.3 billion, resulting from net income of $1.1 billion and net favorable changes in working capital of $84.8 million, and a favorable impact of $197.9 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows. For the year ended December 31, 2011, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $209.5 million, partially offset by a $125.8 million increase in accounts receivable. The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were 53 Table of Contents principally associated with deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, and amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010, was $777.3 million, resulting from net income of $528.1 million and net favorable changes in working capital of $50.9 million, and a net favorable impact of $198.3 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows. Non-cash items include deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, primarily from acquisition-related intangible assets, amortization of debt discount and loss on conversions of our convertible notes. For the year ended December 31, 2010, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $84.8 million, primarily related to higher deferred merchant bookings and accrued expenses as our business continues to expand. Other changes in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2010 include an increase in other assets and liabilities of $17.8 million, principally related to an increase in long-term liabilities, partially offset by a $29.3 million increase in accounts receivable, and a $22.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. The increase in accounts receivable is primarily due to the growth in the size of our business. The increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets is primarily related to the timing and amount of tax payments and increases in business volume. Net cash used in investing activities was $904.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 were affected by payments of $68.2 million for acquisitions, principally related to the contingent consideration associated with the 2007 acquisition of Agoda, $11.0 million net payments to settle derivative contracts, net purchases of investments of $775.8 million, and a change in restricted cash of $2.9 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $841.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 were affected by $741.4 million net purchases of marketable securities and a payment of $112.4 million for acquisitions and other equity investments, net of cash acquired, partially offset by $35.0 million net proceeds from foreign currency forward contracts and a $0.3 million change in restricted cash. Cash invested in purchase of property and equipment was $46.8 million and $22.6 million in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in 2011 is to support the growth of our business, including additional data center capacity and capital expenditures for new offices opened during the year, a trend we expect to continue to support business growth. Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $151.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily related to treasury stock purchases of $163.2 million, approximately $13.0 million spent to purchase a portion of the shares underlying redeemable noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com, and $0.2 million of principal paid upon the conversion of senior notes, partially offset by $4.3 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and $21.0 million of excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $213.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The cash provided by financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily related to proceeds from the issuance of convertible senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $575.0 million, $43.0 million of proceeds from the termination of conversion spread hedges, $25.8 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options, $3.1 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and proceeds of $4.3 million from the sale of subsidiary shares to noncontrolling interests, partially offset by $295.4 million paid upon the conversion of senior notes, $129.5 million of treasury stock purchases and $13.3 million of debt issuance costs. Contingencies A number of jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against us related to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax). In addition, a number of municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes. To date, the majority of taxing jurisdictions in which we facilitate the making of hotel room reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on our U.S. "merchant" hotel business. With respect to jurisdictions that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect taxes from us only on a prospective basis. See Item 3 - Legal Proceedings and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and proceedings, and Item 1A Risk Factors - "Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operation" in this Annual Report. We are vigorously defending against these claims and proceedings. However, litigation is subject to uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these pending or future cases and proceedings. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of these actions or proceedings could result in substantial liabilities for past and/or future bookings, including, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows in any given operating period. Also, there have been, and will continue to be, ongoing costs associated with defending our position in pending and any future cases or proceedings. 54 Table of Contents To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that we have a tax collection responsibility, or we determine that we have one, with respect to future transactions, we may collect any such additional tax obligations from our customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room reservations to our customers and, consequently, could make our hotels services less competitive (i.e., versus the websites of other online travel companies or hotel company websites) and reduce hotel reservation transactions; alternatively, we could choose to reduce the compensation for our services on "merchant" hotel transactions. Either step could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As a result of this litigation and other attempts by jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual which amounted to approximately $33 million and $26 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The accrual is based on our estimate of the ultimate cost of resolving these issues. The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded. We believe that even if we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash, it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. The following table represents our material contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2011 (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements): Payments due by Period (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More than 5 Years Operating lease obligations $ 221,603 $ 32,539 $ 60,775 $ 46,883 $ 81,406 Convertible debt (1) 584,284 584,284 Revolving credit facility (2) 7,767 1,866 3,084 2,817 Redeemable noncontrolling interests 127,045 71,145 55,900 Total (3) $ 940,699 $ 689,834 $ 119,759 $ 49,700 $ 81,406 _____________________________ (1) Convertible debt represents the aggregate principal amount of the Notes and interest of $9.3 million. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) Represents fees on uncommitted funds and outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2011. (3) We reported "Other long-term liabilities" of $39 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2011, of which approximately $33 million related to our accrual for potential resolution of issues related to hotel occupancy and other hotel-related transaction taxes (refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and approximately $3 million related to unrecognized tax benefits (refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). A variety of factors could affect the timing of payments for these liabilities. We believe that these matters will likely not be resolved in the next twelve months and accordingly we have classified the estimated liability as "non-current" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. We have excluded "Other long-term liabilities" in the amount of $39 million from the contractual obligations table because we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of such payments. Since the contingent conversion threshold for the 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 was exceeded as of December 31, 2011, these notes are convertible at the option of the holders. If the holders elect to convert, we will be required to pay the aggregate principal amount in cash and we will deliver cash or shares of common stock, at our option, for the conversion value in excess of the aggregate principal amount. We would likely fund our conversion obligations with cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, if during that period or thereafter, we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plan, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted. There are no assurances that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, that revenue growth or sustained profitability will be realized or that future borrowings or equity sales will be available in amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies or repay our indebtedness. 55 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. As of December 31, 2011, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.