Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements " at the end of this Item 2. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, " this discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in " Risk Factors " and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. The information on our websites is not a part of this Quarterly Report and is not incorporated herein by reference. We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period operating and financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Overview Our mission is to make it easier for everyone to experience the world. We seek to empower people to cut through travel barriers, such as money, time, language and overwhelming options, so they can use our services to easily and confidently go where they want to go, stay where they want to stay, dine where they want to dine, pay how they want to pay and experience what they want to experience. We connect consumers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world through our online platforms. Through one or more of our brands, consumers can: book a broad array of accommodations (including hotels, motels, resorts, homes, apartments, bed and breakfasts, hostels and other properties); make a car rental reservation or arrange for an airport taxi; make a dinner reservation; or book a flight, cruise, vacation package, tour or activity. Consumers can also use our meta-search services to easily compare travel reservation information, such as airline ticket, hotel reservation and rental car reservation information, from hundreds of online travel platforms at once. In addition, we offer various other services to consumers and partners, such as certain travel-related insurance products and restaurant management services to restaurants. We offer these services through six primary consumer-facing brands: Booking.com, Priceline, agoda, Rentalcars.com, KAYAK and OpenTable. While historically our brands operated on a largely independent basis and many of them focused on a particular service (e.g., accommodation reservations) or geography, we are increasing the collaboration, cooperation and interdependency among our brands in our efforts to provide consumers with the best and most comprehensive services. We also seek to maximize the benefits of our scale by sharing resources and technological innovations, co-developing new services and coordinating activities in key markets among our brands. For example, Booking.com, the worlds leading brand for booking online accommodation reservations (based on room nights booked), offers rental car and other ground transportation services, flights, tours and activities reservations, restaurant reservations and other services, many of which are supported by our other brands. Similarly, hotel reservations available through Booking.com are also generally available through agoda and Priceline. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands collectively as "Booking Holdings," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda and Rentalcars.com in their entirety and the international businesses of KAYAK and OpenTable. This classification is independent of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while using our services or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant. For example, a reservation made through Booking.com (which is domiciled in the Netherlands) at a hotel in New York by a consumer in the United States is part of our international results. In 2020, our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 88% of our consolidated revenues. A significant majority of our revenues, including a significant majority of our international revenues, is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations. See Note 2 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for more geographic information. We derive substantially all of our revenues from enabling consumers to make travel service reservations. We also earn revenues from credit card processing rebates and customer processing fees, advertising services, restaurant reservations and restaurant management services, and various other services, such as travel-related insurance revenues. 34 Trends In response to the outbreak of the novel strain of the coronavirus, COVID-19 (the "COVID-19 pandemic"), many governments around the world have implemented, and continue to implement, a variety of measures to reduce the spread of COVID-19, including travel restrictions, bans and advisories, instructions to residents to practice social distancing, curfews, quarantine advisories, including quarantine restrictions after travel in certain locations, shelter-in-place orders, required closures of non-essential businesses and additional restrictions on businesses as part of re-opening plans . These government mandates have had a significant adverse effect on many of the partners on whom our business relies, including hotels and other accommodation providers, airlines and restaurants, as well as on our workforce, operations and consumers. The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting economic conditions and government orders have resulted in a material decrease in consumer spending and an unprecedented decline in travel and restaurant activities and consumer demand for related services. Our financial results and prospects are almost entirely dependent on the sale of travel-related services. Our results for the year ended December 31, 2020 and three months ended March 31, 2021 were materially and negatively impacted, with a material decline in gross travel bookings, room nights booked, total revenues, net income and cash flow from operations as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 and three months ended March 31, 2019. Accommodation room nights, which include the impact of cancellations ("room nights"), declined rapidly as the COVID-19 pandemic spread in the first quarter and the beginning of the second quarter of 2020, but then steadily improved through the end of the second quarter and into the summer travel period in the third quarter of 2020. However, in the fourth quarter of 2020, we saw an increased decline in room nights, due in part to increased COVID-19 case counts and reimposed or additional government-imposed travel restrictions, particularly in Europe, some of which continued to remain in place during the three months ended March 31, 2021. In the fourth quarter of 2020, new variants of COVID-19 that spread more easily and quickly than other variants were first discovered in the United Kingdom and in South Africa and have since spread throughout various parts of the world. Also in the fourth quarter of 2020, multiple COVID-19 vaccines were approved for widespread distribution throughout various parts of the world, including the United States and in Europe. While the rate of vaccination distribution in some countries like Israel, the United Kingdom and the United States is encouraging, other countries in Europe, in Asia, and other parts of the world have made slower progress. We believe that as effective vaccines become more widely distributed, people will increasingly feel it is safe to travel again and government restrictions will be relaxed, although the timing remains uncertain. The room night decline in the first quarter of 2021 relative to the first quarter of 2019 improved from the room night decline in the fourth quarter of 2020 relative to the fourth quarter of 2019. The comparison of the first quarter of 2021 to the first quarter of 2019 avoids the distortion created from comparing to the initial spread of the COVID-19 pandemic late in the first quarter of 2020. This improvement in trends in the first quarter of 2021 was driven by domestic travel (travelers booking a stay within their own country) in Europe and the United States. In Europe, the improvement in room nights has been for travel expected to occur further into the future, including in the summer period, as many government-imposed travel restrictions remained in place in the first quarter of 2021. The United States had positive room night growth in the first quarter of 2021 as compared to the first quarter of 2019. Since April 2020, we have seen a substantial increase versus 2019 in the share of room nights booked for domestic travel while room nights booked for international travel have remained very limited throughout the pandemic. Over this same time period, we have seen an increase in the share of our room nights made on a mobile device. Also, while we saw an increase in the share of room nights booked for alternative accommodation properties in the early months of the pandemic, more recently the share on a global basis has been consistent with pre-pandemic levels. Compared to other regions, Europe, where we have our highest mix of alternative accommodations, had the slowest growth versus 2019 in the fourth quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021, which has negatively impacted our alternative accommodation mix on a global basis. In addition, we have observed an improvement in cancellation rates since the high in April 2020, though we have seen additional periods of highly elevated cancellation rates typically coinciding with newly imposed travel restrictions. Our revenue decline in the first quarter of 2021, as compared to the first quarter of 2019, was impacted to a greater extent than our room night decline due primarily to timing of booking versus travel as a portion of room nights booked in the first quarter of 2021 are related to expected travel in subsequent quarters which is when we expect to recognize the associated revenue. Our revenue decline in the first quarter of 2021, as compared to the first quarter of 2019, was also impacted by lower accommodation average daily rates ("ADRs"). While there have been some signs of a travel recovery in certain parts of the world, we continue to expect the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects to have a significant adverse impact on our business for the duration of the pandemic, during any resurgence of the pandemic and during the subsequent economic recovery, which could be an extended period of time. Due to the uncertain and rapidly evolving nature of current conditions around the world, we are unable to predict accurately the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business going forward. In April 2021, trends continued 35 to improve in the United States and Europe while trends in Asia worsened due to increasing COVID-19 case counts and government-imposed restrictions on travel. As a result, April 2021 room nights declined less than the room night decline in the first quarter of 2021. If these recent trends were to continue, we currently expect that room nights, gross bookings, and revenue in the second quarter of 2021 will decline relative to the second quarter of 2019 less than those metrics declined in the first quarter of 2021 relative to the first quarter of 2019. The comparison of the second quarter of 2021 to the second quarter of 2019 avoids the distortion created from comparing to the severe impact on our business from the COVID-19 pandemic in the second quarter of 2020. In addition, we currently expect that we will experience a smaller operating loss in the second quarter of 2021 as compared to the first quarter of 2021. The extent of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects is highly uncertain and will ultimately depend on future developments. These include, but are not limited to, the severity, extent and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, including as a result of any new variants of COVID-19 and any resurgences of the pandemic, the global distribution of the vaccines and their efficacy against existing and any future variants of COVID-19, and their impact on the travel and restaurant industries and consumer spending more broadly. For more information, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " The COVID-19 pandemic has materially adversely affected, and may further adversely impact, our business and financial performance." In response to the reduction in our business volumes as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we took actions at all of our brands to reduce the size of our workforce to optimize efficiency and reduce costs, which we expect to result in annualized cost savings of approximately $370 million in personnel-related expenses. In addition to the restructuring expenses of $8 million recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2021 and included in Restructuring and other exit costs in the Unaudited Consolidated Statement of Operations, we estimate that we will record approximately $20 million of additional restructuring expenses in 2021 (see Note 14 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Our headcount decreased 29% year-over-year as of March 31, 2021, primarily due to the restructuring activities and attrition. Certain governments have passed or are considering modifying legislation to help businesses during the COVID-19 pandemic through loans, wage subsidies, tax relief or other financial aid, and some of these governments have extended or are considering extending these programs. We have participated in several of these programs, including the Netherlands' wage subsidy program and the United Kingdom's job retention scheme. In addition, certain governments have extended support for the travel and tourism industry through special programs whereby discounts are extended to travelers through travel service providers or through travel agents for reservations facilitated by them. We have participated in Japan's Go To Travel program and Thailand's We Travel Together program. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced many years of significant growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth was the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices and the growth of travel overall. We also believe this growth was the result of the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to increase the number and the variety of accommodations we offer consumers, increase and improve content, build distribution and improve the consumer experience on our online platforms, as well as consistently and effectively marketing our brands through performance and brand marketing efforts. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, these year-over-year growth rates generally decelerated due to the size of our accommodation reservation business and the generally slowing growth rate of the online travel market. As the travel market recovers from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect to see higher than pre-COVID-19 pandemic growth rates until we return to the level of travel market demand that we observed prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, after which we expect prior trends to generally resume. We are a global business, and online travel growth rates vary across the world depending on numerous factors, including local and regional economic conditions, individual disposable income, access to the internet and adoption of e-commerce. Over the last several years, and prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, online travel growth rates had generally slowed in markets such as North America and Europe where online activity was high and consumers had been engaging in e-commerce transactions for many years, while online travel growth rates remained relatively high in markets such as Asia-Pacific where incomes were rising more quickly and the increased availability and use of mobile devices had accelerated the growth of internet usage and travel e-commerce transactions. Over the long term, we expect the broader global economy and online travel market to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, and following the recovery of the travel industry to the level of pre-COVID-19 pandemic demand, we would expect online travel growth rates will slow as markets continue to mature. However, we believe that the opportunity to grow our business beyond pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels exists for the markets in which we operate, including in both mature and less mature markets. Further, we believe that this opportunity for growth exists because we believe we provide significant value to travel service providers, regardless of size or geography, due to our global reach and marketing expertise. For example, we believe that accommodation providers of all sizes, from large hotel chains to small, 36 independent hotels and alternative accommodations such as homes and apartments, benefit from using our services, which enable them to reach a broader audience of potential customers. Historically, our growth has primarily been generated by the worldwide accommodation reservation business of Booking.com, which is our most significant brand, and has been due, in part, to the availability of a large number of properties through Booking.com. Booking.com included approximately 2,333,000 properties on its website at March 31, 2021, consisting of approximately 430,000 hotels, motels and resorts and approximately 1,903,000 homes, apartments and other unique places to stay, compared to approximately 2,607,000 properties (including approximately 472,000 hotels, motels and resorts and approximately 2,135,000 homes, apartments, and other unique places to stay) at March 31, 2020. Booking.com categorizes properties listed on its website as either (a) hotels, motels and resorts, which groups together more traditional accommodation types (including hostels and inns), or (b) homes, apartments and other unique places to stay, also referred to as alternative accommodations, which encompasses all other types of accommodations, including bed and breakfasts, villas, apart-hotels and beyond. We intend to continue to improve the accommodation choices available for reservation on our platforms, however, the number of accommodations on our platforms may vary in part as a result of removing accommodations from time to time. At March 31, 2021, we saw a year-over-year decrease in the number of properties on Booking.coms website, as compared to March 31, 2020, driven by an elevated number of accommodations removed from the platform due primarily to the properties not providing availability on our platforms, property closures, or non-payment of invoices . We have continued to see a year-over-year increase in the number of accommodations removed from our platform during the COVID-19 pandemic, and we may see further accommodation removals in the future due to increases in property closures or changes in ownership. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly-penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts). Because alternative accommodations are often either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, these properties generally represent more limited booking opportunities than hotels, motels and resorts, which generally have more units to rent per property. Further, alternative accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons or other factors or may not be available at peak times due to use by the property owners. We may also experience lower profit margins with respect to these properties due to certain additional costs, such as increased customer service costs, related to offering these accommodations on our platforms. As our alternative accommodation business has grown, these different characteristics have negatively impacted our profit margins and we expect this trend to continue. Further, to the extent that these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties on our platforms, the number of reservations per property will likely continue to decrease since alternative accommodation properties typically have fewer booking opportunities per property. We believe that continuing to improve the choices of accommodations available through our services, in particular Booking.com, will help us to continue to grow our accommodation reservation business. We are constantly innovating to grow our business by, among other things, providing a best-in-class user experience with intuitive, easy-to-use online platforms (i.e., websites and mobile apps) to ensure that we are meeting the needs of online consumers while aiming to exceed their expectations. As part of these ongoing efforts, we have a long-term strategy to build a more integrated offering of multiple elements of travel, which we refer to as the "Connected Trip," and we expect these efforts to increase room night growth and revenue growth over time. Although we expect our efforts to build the Connected Trip will increase revenue growth over time, we may see a negative impact on our operating margins in the near term as we incur the expenses associated with these investments. Further, to the extent our non-accommodation services (e.g., airline ticket reservation services) grow faster than our accommodation services, whether as part of the Connected Trip or otherwise, our operating margins may be negatively affected if we experience an increasing mix of revenues from lower-margin services. As part of our strategy to provide more payment options to consumers and travel service providers, increase the number and variety of accommodations available on Booking.com and enable the growth of our in-destination activities businesses, Booking.com is increasingly processing transactions on a merchant basis, where it facilitates payments from travelers for the services provided. This allows Booking.com to process transactions for travel service providers and to increase its ability to offer secure and flexible transaction terms to consumers, such as the form and timing of payment. We believe that adding these types of service offerings will benefit consumers and travel service providers, as well as our gross bookings, room night and earnings growth rates. However, this results in additional expenses for personnel, payment processing, customer chargebacks (including those related to fraud) and other expenses related to these transactions, which are recorded in "Personnel" and "Sales and other expenses" in our Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations, as well as associated incremental revenues in the form of credit card rebates, for example, which are recorded in "Merchant revenues." To the extent more of our business is generated on a merchant basis, we will incur a greater level of these merchant-related expenses, which would negatively impact our operating margins despite increases in associated incremental revenues. Components of revenues and expenses related to our merchant business may be recognized in different periods. These timing factors could impact our 37 operating margins as well as the relationship between our gross bookings and revenues in a particular period, especially as our merchant business increases as a percentage of our overall business. We compete globally with both online and traditional providers of travel and restaurant reservation and related services. The markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive, constantly evolving and subject to rapid change, and current and new competitors can launch new services at relatively low cost. Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple, Alibaba, Tencent, Amazon and Facebook, have significantly more customers or users, consumer data and financial and other resources than we do, and they may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to enable them to compete more effectively with us. For example, Google has entered various aspects of the online travel market and has grown rapidly in this area, including by offering a flight meta-search product (Google Flights), a hotel meta-search product (Google Hotel Ads), a vacation rental meta-search product, its "Book on Google" reservation functionality, Google Travel, a planning tool that aggregates its flight, hotel and packages products in one website and by integrating its hotel meta-search products and restaurant information and reservation products into its Google Maps app. Moreover, as the economy and the travel industry recover from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the structure of the travel industry could change in unexpected ways, which could advantage or disadvantage us and benefit certain of our existing competitors or new entrants. As a result, our historical strengths may not provide the competitive advantages that they did prior to the pandemic. If we are unable to successfully adapt to any changes in how the travel industry operates or to changes in the ways in which consumers purchase travel services, our ability to compete, and therefore our business and results of operations, would be adversely affected. Our markets are also subject to rapidly changing conditions, including technological developments, consumer behavior changes, regulatory changes and travel service provider consolidation. We expect these trends to continue. For example, we have experienced a significant shift of both direct and indirect business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. In addition, the revenue earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay, have lower accommodation ADRs and are not made as far in advance. We observed an increasingly higher share of our room nights made on a mobile device in the first quarter of 2021, as compared to the first quarters of 2019 and 2020. For more detail regarding the competitive trends and risks we face, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. " and " Consumer adoption and use of mobile devices creates challenges and may enable device companies such as Google and Apple to compete directly with us. " and " We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological or other market changes. " Although we believe that providing an extensive collection of properties, excellent customer service and an intuitive, easy-to-use consumer experience are important factors influencing a consumer's decision to make a reservation, for many consumers, particularly in certain markets, the price of the travel service is the primary factor determining whether a consumer will book a reservation. As a result, it is increasingly important to offer travel services, such as accommodation reservations, at competitive prices, whether through discounts, coupons, closed-user group rates or loyalty programs, or otherwise. These initiatives have resulted and in the future may result in lower ADRs and lower revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Discounting and couponing coupled with a high degree of consumer shopping behavior is particularly common in Asian markets. In some cases, our competitors are willing to make little or no profit on a transaction, or offer travel services at a loss, in order to gain market share. We experienced a meaningful decline in constant-currency accommodation ADRs in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, in the first quarter of 2021 our global ADRs only declined slightly, as compared to the first quarter of 2019, as the ADR declines within some of our regions were offset by the change in geographical mix of our business driven primarily by the stronger room night performance of North America, which is a high ADR region. In addition, our g lobal ADRs in the first quarter of 2021, as compared to the first quarter of 2019, benefited from a higher mix of bookings for the summer travel period in Western Europe, which are high ADR bookings. Prior to the COVID-19 outbreak, we observed a trend of declining constant-currency accommodation ADRs. We believe the trend of declining ADRs, observed prior to the outbreak, was partially driven by the negative impact of the changing geographical mix of our business (e.g., lower ADR regions like Asia-Pacific were generally growing faster than higher ADR regions like Western Europe and North America) as well as pricing pressures within local markets from time to time which resulted from competitive conditions, weakening economic conditions or changes in travel patterns. These declining ADR trends have resulted in and may continue to result in our gross bookings declining more than our room nights. As the travel market recovers from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect travel industry ADRs generally to increase and, as a result, we expect our ADRs similarly to increase during the recovery, however, it is uncertain whether industry ADRs will improve at the same pace as travel demand. In addition, we expect the ADR trends we observed before the COVID-19 pandemic will generally resume after the recovery, which would negatively pressure our ADRs, however, there may also be periods of stable or increasing ADRs. 38 We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through marketing and promotional campaigns. Historically, our marketing expenses increased significantly, however, we experienced more moderate growth rates in recent years, and since the COVID-19 pandemic, our marketing expenses have declined significantly. Our marketing expense is comprised of performance marketing and brand marketing expenses. Our performance marketing expense, which represents a substantial majority of our marketing expense, is primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services and affiliate marketing to generate traffic to our websites. Our brand marketing expense is primarily related to costs associated with producing and airing television advertising, online video advertising (for example, on YouTube and Facebook), online display advertising and other brand marketing. Total marketing expenses were $461 million, $851 million, and $1.2 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. We expect that our marketing expenses in 2021 will remain significantly below 2019 levels, but likely higher than 2020 levels. Marketing efficiency, expressed as marketing expense as a percentage of total revenues, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign currency exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers, the timing difference between when revenue is recognized and when marketing expense is recorded, the timing and effectiveness of our brand marketing campaigns and the extent to which consumers come directly to our platforms for bookings. For example, competition for desired rankings in search results and/or a decline in ad clicks by consumers could increase our costs per click and reduce our marketing efficiency. Changes by Google or any of our other search or meta-search partners in how it presents travel search results, including, if applicable, by placing its own offerings at or near the top of search results, or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results may be competitively disadvantageous to us and may impact our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites. We have observed a long-term trend of decreasing performance marketing returns on investment ("ROIs"), however, in recent years, we observed periods of stable or increasing ROIs. During the first several months of the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced large year-over-year declines in ROIs driven by a significant increase in cancellation rates. However, we have observe d modest in creases in ROIs in the first quarter of 2021 relative to the first quarters of 2019 and 2020. Although we have seen recent improvement in ROI trends, we expect volatility in our ROIs for the duration of the pandemic. When evaluating our performance marketing spend, we typically consider several factors for each channel, such as the customer experience on the advertising platform, the incrementality of the traffic we receive and the anticipated repeat rate from a particular platform, as well as other factors. However, with the significant decrease in demand due to the COVID-19 pandemic, our performance marketing spend is highly influenced by expected cancellation rates in addition to the other factors listed above. The amount of business we obtain through each performance marketing channel is impacted by numerous factors, including the level of consumer demand for travel, bidding decisions by us and our competitors (including decisions to optimize performance marketing ROIs) and the marketing efforts and success of those channels to attract consumers and generate demand. See Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " We rely on marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our platforms and grow our business. " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in online search and meta-search algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " In 2019, our cancellation rates generally decreased, which benefited our marketing efficiency and results of operations. Since the COVID-19 pandemic we have experienced unprecedented increases in cancellation rates, which negatively impacted our marketing efficiency and results of operations. For example, increased cancellations, especially early in the pandemic, have resulted in increased customer service costs, as well as higher than normal cash outlays to refund consumers for prepaid reservations. However, in the second and third quarters of 2020, we saw a steady improvement in cancellation rates, which trended towards levels that we observed in 2019. In the fourth quarter of 2020, we saw a reversal of the improving cancellation rate trend. In the first quarter of 2021, we have again started to see improvements in cancellation rate trends, however cancellation rates remained higher than in the first quarter of 2019. We ex pect to continue to see volatility in cancellation rates due to any resurgences of the pandemic leading to reinstituted or additional travel restrictions, shelter-in-place rules and reduced willingness to travel. Further, in the first quarter of 2021, a higher share of our room nights booked with flexible cancellation policies, as compared to the first quarters of 2019 and 2020, which could result in higher than normal cancellation rates in future quarters. Perceived or actual adverse economic conditions, including slow, slowing or negative economic growth, high or rising unemployment rates, inflation and weakening currencies, and concerns over government responses such as higher taxes or tariffs and reduced government spending have impaired and could, in the future, impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. We expect the lingering concerns of consumers around the safety of traveling as well as reduced discretionary incomes could negatively impact leisure travel demand for an extended period of time. Further, political uncertainty, conditions or events, such as the variety of measures implemented by many governments around the world to reduce the spread of COVID-19, including travel restrictions and bans, instructions to residents to practice social distancing, quarantine advisories, shelter-in-place orders and required closures of non-essential businesses can also negatively affect consumer spending and 39 adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates, increased cancellation rates and weaker trends in ADRs across many regions of the world, particularly in those countries that appear to be most affected by economic and political uncertainties, which we believe are due at least in part to these macro-economic conditions and concerns. For more detail, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " The COVID-19 pandemic has materially adversely affected, and may further adversely impact, our business and financial performance." and " Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance. " These and other macro-economic uncertainties, such as geopolitical tensions and differing central bank monetary policies, have led to periods of significant volatility in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and other currencies. Significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, stock markets and oil prices can also impact consumer travel behavior. As noted earlier, our international business represents a substantial majority of our financial results. Therefore, because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates as the financial results and the financial condition of our international businesses are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. As a result, both the absolute amounts of and percentage changes in our foreign-currency-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars are affected by foreign currency exchange rate changes. For example, total revenues from our international operations decreased by 53% for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, but, without the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, decreased year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately 54%. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins have not been significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. We designate certain portions of the aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated debt as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of the net investment in certain Euro functional currency subsidiaries. Foreign currency transaction gains or losses on the Euro-denominated debt that is not designated as a hedging instrument for accounting purposes are recognized in "Other income (expense), net" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 6 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Such foreign currency transaction gains or losses are dependent on the amount of net assets of the Euro functional currency subsidiaries, the amount of the Euro-denominated debt that is designated as a hedge and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For more information, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. " We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our transactional balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. We will continue to evaluate the use of derivative instruments in the future. See Note 6 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our derivative contracts. Many taxing authorities are increasingly focused on ways to increase tax revenues and have targeted large multinational technology companies in these efforts. As a result, many countries and some U.S. states have implemented or are considering the adoption of a digital services tax or similar tax that imposes a tax on revenue earned from digital advertisements or the use of online platforms, even when there is no physical presence in the jurisdiction. Currently, rates for this tax range from 1.5% to 10% of revenue deemed generated in the jurisdiction. The digital services taxes currently in effect, which we record in "General and administrative" expense in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations, have negatively impacted our results of operations and if many other jurisdictions pass similar legislation, the collective impact of all of these measures could have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. For more information, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " Many national governments have conducted or are conducting investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. Some countries have adopted or proposed legislation that could also affect business practices within the online travel industry. For example, France, Italy, Belgium and Austria have passed legislation prohibiting parity contract clauses in their entirety. Also, a number of governments are investigating or conducting information-gathering exercises with respect to compliance by online travel companies ("OTCs") with consumer protection laws, including practices related to the display of search results and search ranking algorithms, claims regarding discounts, disclosure of charges and availability, and similar messaging. In December 2020, the European Commission proposed the Digital Markets Act and the Digital Services Act, which are expected to give regulators more instruments to investigate digital businesses and impose new rules on certain digital platforms if they are determined to be "gatekeepers." The proposed legislation is not final and it is not known what the laws will look like in their final forms. If the regulators were to determine that we are a gatekeeper under the proposed legislation, we could be subject to additional rules and regulations not applicable to all our competitors and our business could be harmed. For more information on these matters and their potential effects on our business, see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " Our business is subject to various competition/anti-trust, consumer protection and online 40 commerce laws, rules and regulations around the world, and as the size of our business grows, scrutiny of our business by legislators and regulators in these areas may intensify. " If there is an adverse outcome of the ongoing litigation with the Netherlands Pension Fund for the Travel Industry discussed in Note 13 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, we could incur additional ongoing expenses related to employee benefits. There could also be other employee benefit related expenses that we may become subject to in the Netherlands and/or other locations. Such increased employee benefit costs could be significant and would negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. In addition to the price parity and consumer protection investigations and the ongoing pension matter, from time to time national competition authorities, other governmental agencies, trade associations and private parties take legal actions, including commencing legal proceedings, that may affect our operations. In general, increased regulatory focus on online businesses, including online travel businesses like ours, could result in increased compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. Seasonality and Other Timing Factors In recent years prior to 2020, the majority of our gross bookings have been generated in the first half of the year, as consumers planned and reserved their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. However, we would generally recognize revenue from these bookings when the travel begins (at "check-in"), which can be in a quarter other than when the associated reservations are booked. In contrast, we expensed the substantial majority of our marketing activities as the expense is incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which associated reservations were booked. As a result of this timing difference between when we recorded marketing expense and when we recognized associated revenue, we have experienced our highest levels of profitability in the third quarter of the year, which is when we experienced the highest levels of accommodation check-ins for the year for our European and North American markets. The first quarter of the year was typically the quarter in which we recognized the lowest amount of revenue as well as the lowest level of profitability and highest level of volatility in earnings growth rates due to these seasonal timing factors. The COVID-19 pandemic impacted seasonality in 2020; for example, we witnessed a higher share of travel being booked during the second and third quarters as well as a higher share of check-ins during the third quarter than in prior years. We cannot currently predict travel patterns given the COVID-19 pandemic, and we may not experience typical seasonality effects on our business in 2021. For several years, we experienced an expansion of the booking window (the average time between the booking of a travel reservation and when the travel begins), which impacts the relationship between our gross bookings (recognized at the time of booking) and our revenues (recognized at the time of check-in). However, we saw a contraction of the booking window throughout 2018 and 2019. Due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our booking trends, we saw an initial expansion in the booking window in the second quarter of 2020 versus the comparable prior-year period as an increased percentage of bookings were made for travel occurring in the third quarter of 2020. However, in the third and fourth quarters of 2020, we saw a significant contraction of the booking window versus the comparable prior-year period as an increased percentage of bookings were made for travel that was to occur close to the time of booking. In the first quarter of 2021 we continued to see contraction of the booking window as compared to the first quarters of 2019 and 2020, however the contraction was less significant than the contraction in the fourth quarter of 2020 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2019. We expect that the length of the booking window will be volatile and difficult to predict throughout the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. Future changes in the length of the booking window will affect the degree to which our gross bookings and revenues occur in the same period and, as a result, whether our gross bookings growth rates and revenue growth rates converge or diverge. In addition, the date on which certain holidays (e.g., Easter and Ramadan) fall can have an impact on our quarterly results and our quarterly year-over-year growth rates. Due to the similar timing of Easter in April 2021 and April 2020, the timing of the Easter holiday did not have a meaningful impact on our year-over-year growth rates in the first quarter of 2021. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable marketing expense. In addition, revenue growth is typically less impacted by decelerating gross bookings growth in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters, but any such deceleration would negatively impact revenue growth in subsequent periods. Conversely, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate accelerates, our operating margins are typically negatively impacted by relatively more variable marketing expense. In addition, revenue growth is typically less impacted by accelerating gross bookings growth in the near term, but any such acceleration would positively impact revenue growth in subsequent periods as a portion of the revenue recognized from such gross bookings will occur in future quarters. As the travel market recovers from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect to see higher than pre-COVID-19 pandemic gross bookings growth rates, which will likely result in periods where our operating margins are negatively impacted due to the timing difference of when marketing expense is recorded and when revenue is recognized. 41 Other Factors We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel-related services. Factors beyond our control, such as oil prices, stock market volatility, terrorist attacks, unusual or extreme weather or natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, fires, droughts and volcanic eruptions, travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as COVID-19 and other coronaviruses, Ebola and Zika, political instability, changes in economic conditions, wars and regional hostilities, imposition of taxes, tariffs or surcharges by regulatory authorities, changes in trade policies or trade disputes, changes in immigration policies or travel-related accidents or increased focus on the environmental impact of travel, can disrupt travel, limit the ability or willingness of travelers to visit certain locations or otherwise result in declines in travel demand. These kinds of events have negatively affected our business and results of operations in the past and may do so again in the future. Because these events or concerns, and the full impact of their effects, are largely unpredictable, they can dramatically and suddenly affect travel behavior by consumers, and therefore demand for our services and our relationships with travel service providers and other partners, any of which can adversely affect our business and results of operations. See Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " The COVID-19 pandemic has materially adversely affected, and may further adversely impact, our business and financial performance." and " Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance. " The extent of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects is highly uncertain and will ultimately depend on future developments. We expect the pandemic and its effects to continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business for the duration of the pandemic and during the subsequent economic recovery, which could be an extended period of time. Over the long term, we intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. In recent years, we have experienced pressure on operating margins as we invested in initiatives to drive future growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, acquisitions. We believe competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of services and technologies, including services and technologies that may be outside of our historical core business, and our ability to keep pace may slow. Potential competitors, such as emerging start-ups, may be able to innovate and focus on developing a particularly new product or service faster than we can or may foresee consumer need for new services or technologies before us. Some of our larger competitors or potential competitors have more resources or more established or diversified relationships with consumers than we do, and they could use these advantages in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, entering or investing in travel reservation businesses, investing in research and development, and competing aggressively for highly-skilled employees. For example, because consumers often utilize other online services more frequently than online travel services, a competitor or potential competitor that has established other, more frequent online interactions with consumers may be able to more easily or cost-effectively acquire customers for its online travel services than we can. Our goal is to grow revenue and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain and highly competitive environment in which we operate makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to return to the levels of revenue growth and profitability we experienced prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"). Certain of our accounting estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Our management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. Estimates are based on, among other things, historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For a complete discussion of our critical accounting policies, see "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" section of the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. 42 Valuation of Goodwill A substantial portion of our goodwill relates to the acquisitions of OpenTable and KAYAK. We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We test goodwill at a reporting unit level. Our annual goodwill impairment tests are performed as of September 30. Due to the significant and negative financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic (see Note 1 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements), we performed an interim period goodwill impairment test at March 31, 2020 and recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $489 million related to the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit for the three months ended March 31, 2020, which is not tax-deductible. As of September 30, 2020, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test and recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $573 million for the same reporting unit for the three months ended September 30, 2020, which is not tax-deductible. No additional impairment indicators were identified as of March 31, 2021. The estimation of fair value of the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit reflects numerous assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including key assumptions regarding OpenTable and KAYAKs expected growth rates and operating margin, expected length and severity of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic, the shape and timing of the subsequent recovery and the competitive environment, as well as other key assumptions with respect to matters outside of our control, such as discount rates and market comparables. It requires significant judgments and estimates and actual results could be materially different than the judgments and estimates used to estimate fair value. Future events and changing market conditions may lead us to re-evaluate the assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit, particularly the assumptions related to the length and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and the shape and timing of the subsequent recovery, which may result in a need to recognize an additional goodwill impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for details, which is incorporated into this Item 2 by reference thereto. 43 Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period operating and financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units booked through our OTC brands by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked through our OTC brands by our customers, net of cancellations, and is widely used in the travel business. Our non-OTC brands (KAYAK and OpenTable) have different business metrics from those of our OTC brands and therefore search queries through KAYAK and restaurant reservations through OpenTable do not contribute to our gross bookings. Room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our services for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2021 2020 Room nights 99 124 (20.1) % Rental car days 10 12 (15.1) % Airline tickets 3 2 62.1 % Room nights and rental car days reserved through our services declined for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which had a significant negative impact on our global accommodation and rental car reservation businesses for the full first quarter in 2021 but did not significantly impact the full first quarter of 2020. Airline tickets increased by 62.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, due primarily to strong execution and growth at Priceline, which operates primarily in the U.S. domestic travel market, which is a market that has recovered significantly faster than the global travel market from the COVID-19 pandemic. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2021 2020 Agency $ 8,704 $ 8,320 4.6 % Merchant 3,232 4,073 (20.7) % Total $ 11,935 $ 12,393 (3.7) % Gross bookings decreased by 3.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 (decreased on a constant-currency basis by approximately 6%), due to a decline in gross bookings from our accommodation reservation services, partially offset by an increase in gross bookings from our rental car reservation and airline ticket reservation services. The decline in gross bookings from our accommodation reservation services was almost entirely due to the 20.1% decline in room nights, partially offset by a year-over-year increase in accommodation ADRs of approximately 15% on a constant-currency basis and the positive impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The year-over-year increase in accommodation ADRs on a constant-currency basis was impacted by the comparison to the three months ended March 31, 2020, when ADRs declined sharply in the early days of the pandemic as travel demand was significantly reduced and 44 higher ADR bookings saw a greater share of cancellations. T he increase in gross bookings from our rental car reservation and airline ticket reservation services was driven primarily by strong execution and growth at Priceline, which operates primarily in the U.S. domestic travel market, which is a market that has recovered significantly faster than the global travel market from the COVID-19 pandemic. We believe that unit growth rates and growth in total gross bookings on a constant-currency basis, which excludes the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments from travelers for the travel services provided. Agency gross bookings increased by 4.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, due to an increase in gross bookings from our rental car reservation, accommodation reservation, and airline ticket reservation services. Merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we facilitate payments from travelers for the travel services provided. Merchant gross bookings decreased by 20.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, due primarily to a decline in gross bookings from our accommodations reservation services. Merchant gross bookings decreased while agency gross bookings increased for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, there were lower declines in merchant gross bookings than agency gross bookings as Booking.com had been expanding its merchant accommodation reservation services prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Revenues Online travel reservation services Substantially all of our revenues are generated by providing online travel reservation services, which facilitate online travel purchases between travel service providers and travelers. Revenues from online travel reservation services are classified into two categories: Agency. Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided. Agency revenues consist almost entirely of travel reservation commissions. Substantially all of our agency revenue is from Booking.com agency accommodation reservations. Merchant. Merchant revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided, generally at the time of booking. Merchant revenues include (1) travel reservation commissions and transaction net revenues (i.e., the amount charged to travelers less the amount owed to travel service providers) in connection with our merchant reservation services; (2) credit card processing rebates and customer processing fees; and (3) ancillary fees, including travel-related insurance revenues. Substantially all merchant revenues are derived from transactions where travelers book accommodation reservations or rental car reservations. Advertising and other revenues Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for (a) sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers and (b) advertising placements on its platforms; and (2) revenues earned by OpenTable for (a) restaurant reservation services (fees paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees for restaurant management services. Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2021 2020 Agency revenues $ 717 $ 1,424 (49.7) % Merchant revenues 373 659 (43.4) % Advertising and other revenues 51 205 (75.1) % Total revenues $ 1,141 $ 2,288 (50.2) % 45 Total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, decreased by 50.2% (decreased on a constant-currency basis by approximately 51%), due primarily to a decline in revenues from our accommodation reservation services driven by the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which did not significantly impact our revenues for the full first quarter in 2020. Agency revenues decreased by 49.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, driven by the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which did not significantly impact our revenues for the full first quarter in 2020. Merchant revenues decreased by 43.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, due primarily to decreases in gross bookings from our merchant accommodation reservation services and merchant rental car reservation services driven by the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which did not significantly impact our revenues for the full first quarter in 2020. Advertising and other revenues decreased by 75.1%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, which resulted in a decline in consumer demand for the travel and restaurant-related services offered by KAYAK and OpenTable, primarily due to the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which did not significantly impact our revenues for the full first quarter in 2020. In addition, advertising and other revenue related to OpenTable was further impacted by a program, which started in May 2020 and ended on March 31, 2021, that waived fees payable by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service and subscription fees for many restaurants. Total revenues as a percentage of gross bookings was 9.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, as compared to 18.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2020. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, revenues as a percentage of gross bookings was negatively impacted by timing of booking versus travel as a portion of gross bookings made in the quarter were related to expected travel in subsequent quarters, which is when we expect to recognize the associated revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, revenues as a percentage of gross bookings was positively impacted by timing of booking versus travel as revenue benefited from travel earlier in the quarter before the COVID-19 pandemic, while gross bookings were more negatively impacted by a significant increase in cancellations in March 2020. Our international businesses accounted for approximately $944 million of our total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to $2.0 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Total revenues attributable to our international businesses for the three months ended March 31, 2021 decreased by 53%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 (decreased on a constant-currency basis by approximately 54%). Total revenues attributable to our U.S. businesses decreased 31%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. Total revenues attributable to our international and U.S. businesses declined due to the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which did not significantly impact our revenues for the full first quarter in 2020. Operating Expenses Marketing Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2021 2020 Marketing expenses $ 461 $ 851 (45.9) % % of Total revenues 40.4 % 37.2 % We rely on marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. Marketing expenses consist primarily of the costs of: (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; (4) offline and online brand marketing; and (5) other performance-based marketing and incentives. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, our marketing expense declined significantly, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which had a significant negative impact on travel demand for the full first quarter in 2021 but only had a significant negative impact for part of the first quarter of 2020. We adjust our marketing spend based on our growth and profitability objectives, as well as the travel demand and expected ROIs in our marketing channels. Marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues increased for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily due to the differences in timing between booking and travel with the majority of our marketing expense recognized at the time of booking and revenue recognized when travel occurs. The year-over-year increase 46 in marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues was partially offset by increased performa nce marketing ROIs and changes in the share of traffic by channel. Sales and Other Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2021 2020 Sales and other expenses $ 112 $ 377 (70.4) % % of Total revenues 9.8 % 16.5 % Sales and other expenses consist primarily of: (1) credit card and other payment processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) customer chargeback provisions and fraud prevention expenses associated with merchant transactions; (4) customer relations costs and other costs; and (5) provisions for expected credit losses, primarily related to accommodation commission receivables and prepayments to certain customers. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, sales and other expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, decreased compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, due primarily to a decrease in expected credit loss expenses as we substantially increased our provision for expected credit losses during the three months ended March 31, 2020 due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as decreases in expenses related to transactions processed on a merchant basis. Personnel Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2021 2020 Personnel $ 552 $ 484 14.0 % % of Total revenues 48.4 % 21.2 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including: (1) salaries; (2) stock-based compensation; (3) bonuses; (4) payroll taxes; and (5) employee health and other benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, which was impacted by a reduction in stock-based compensation expense of $73 million recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2020 as a result of reduced financial performance driven by the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, stock-based compensation expense increased during the three months ended March 31, 2021 due to the modification of performance-based awards during the three months ended March 31, 2021 and the issuance of stock options in 2020 for retention purposes. Stock-based compensation expense was $109 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to $6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase in stock-based compensation expense during the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, was partially offset by lower salaries expense. Headcount decreased 29% year-over-year to approximately 19,400 as of March 31, 2021, compared to approximately 27,200 as of March 31, 2020, primarily due to restructuring actions and attrition, as well as a general temporary company-wide hiring freeze in 2020. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2021 2020 General and administrative $ 119 $ 201 (40.9) % % of Total revenues 10.4 % 8.8 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses; (3) indirect taxes such as travel transaction taxes and digital services taxes; and (4) personnel-related expenses such as travel, relocation, recruiting and training expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, due to lower 47 personnel-related expenses associated with a significant reduction in non-essential travel and entertainment, lower indirect taxes, and lower office and occupancy expenses due to employees working remotely. Information Technology Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2021 2020 Information technology $ 87 $ 78 11.6 % % of Total revenues 7.6 % 3.4 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) outsourced data center and cloud computing costs; (3) payments to contractors; and (4) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services. Information technology expenses increased during the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, due primarily to increased software license fees related to cybersecurity and data privacy software. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2021 2020 Depreciation and amortization $ 113 $ 117 (3.0) % % of Total revenues 9.9 % 5.1 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation of computer equipment; (3) amortization of internally-developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, as a result of decreased depreciation of computer equipment, partially offset by increased internally-developed software amortization expense and depreciation of leasehold improvements. Restructuring and Other Exit Costs Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2021 2020 Restructuring and other exit costs $ 8 $ N/A % of Total revenues 0.7 % N/A During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we incurred $8 million of restructuring charges as a result of restructuring actions taken in response to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. These restructuring charges are primarily related to employee severance and benefits at Booking.com (see Note 14 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Impairment of Goodwill Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2021 2020 Impairment of goodwill $ $ 489 N/A % of Total revenues N/A 21.4 48 During the three months ended March 31, 2020, we recorded an impairment charge to goodwill related to OpenTable and KAYAK, which is not tax-deductible, of $489 million (see Note 8 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2021 2020 Interest expense $ (98) $ (64) 53.5 % Interest expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes and Convertible Senior Notes issued in April 2020. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2021 2020 Other income (expense), net $ 131 $ (349) (137.5) % The following table sets forth the breakdown of "Other income (expense), net" for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2021 2020 Interest and dividend income $ 4 $ 32 Net gains (losses) on marketable equity securities 32 (307) Impairment of investment (100) Foreign currency transaction gains 88 31 Other 7 (5) Other income (expense), net $ 131 $ (349) Interest and dividend income decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily due to lower yields as well as increased usage of investments classified as cash equivalents. Net gains on marketable equity securities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 are principally related to the gains on our equity investment in Meituan. Net losses on marketable equity securities for the three months ended March 31, 2020 are principally related to the losses on our equity investments in Trip.com Group and Meituan. See Note 5 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of investment for the three months ended March 31, 2020 is related to our investment in Didi Chuxing (see Notes 5 and 6 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Foreign currency transaction gains include gains of $91 million and $33 million related to the portion of our Euro-denominated debt that was not designated as a net investment hedge and foreign currency losses on derivative contracts of $9 million and $23 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 49 Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) Increase (Decrease) 2021 2020 Income tax benefit $ (223) $ (23) 889.1 % % of Loss before income taxes 80.2 % 3.1 % Our 2021 effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to the effect of higher international tax rates and certain non-deductible expenses, partially offset by the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax (discussed below). Our 2020 effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to the non-deductible goodwill impairment charge related to OpenTable and KAYAK and the valuation allowances recorded against the deferred tax assets generated from the impairment of a long-term investment. Our effective tax rate was higher for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily due to the effect of higher international tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses and discrete U.S. tax expenses related to unrealized gains on equity securities. In addition, the lower effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2020 reflected the non-deductible goodwill impairment charge related to OpenTable and KAYAK. According to Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying innovative activities is taxed at a rate of 9% ("Innovation Box Tax") for periods beginning on or after January 1, 2021 rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. Previously, the Innovation Box Tax rate had been 7%. A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the three months ended March 31, 2021 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment, which had a beneficial impact on the effective tax rate for this period. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, we did not benefit from the Innovation Box Tax. While we expect Booking.com to continue to qualify for Innovation Box Tax treatment with respect to a portion of its earnings for the foreseeable future, the loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit, whether due to a change in tax law or a determination by the Dutch government that Booking.com's activities are not innovative or for any other reason, could substantially increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows in future periods. See Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " We may not be able to maintain our 'Innovation Box Tax' benefit. " 50 Liquidity and Capital Resources The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting economic conditions and government restrictions have resulted in a material decrease in consumer spending and an unprecedented decline in travel and restaurant activities and consumer demand for related services. Our financial results and prospects are almost entirely dependent on the sale of travel-related services. The extent of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects is highly uncertain and will ultimately depend on future developments. These include, but are not limited to, the severity, extent and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, including as a result of any new variants of COVID-19 and any resurgences of the pandemic, the global distribution of the vaccines and their efficacy against existing and any future variants of COVID-19, and their impacts on the travel and restaurant industries and consumer spending more broadly. Even though we have seen some improvements in the economic and operating conditions for our business since the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we cannot predict the long-term effects of the pandemic on our business or the travel and restaurant industries as a whole. If the travel and restaurant industries are fundamentally changed by the COVID-19 pandemic in ways that are detrimental to our operating model, our business may continue to be adversely affected even as the broader global economy recovers. Our continued access to sources of liquidity depends on multiple factors, including global economic conditions, the condition of global financial markets, the availability of sufficient amounts of financing, our ability to meet debt covenant requirements, our operating performance and our credit ratings. If our credit ratings were to be downgraded, or financing sources were to ascribe higher risk to our rating levels or our industry, our access to capital and the cost of any financing would be negatively impacted. There is no guarantee that additional debt financing will be available in the future to fund our obligations, or that it will be available on commercially reasonable terms, in which case we may need to seek other sources of funding. In addition, the terms of future debt agreements could include more restrictive covenants than those we are currently subject to, which could restrict our business operations. For more information, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " Our liquidity, credit ratings and ongoing access to capital could be materially and negatively affected by the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic." At March 31, 2021, we had $16.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments, of which approximately $5.6 billion is held by our international subsidiaries. Cash, cash equivalents and long-term investments held by our international subsidiaries are denominated primarily in Hong Kong Dollars, U.S. Dollars and Euros. Cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments are principally comprised of money market funds, time deposits and certificates of deposit, convertible debt securities of Trip.com Group, Meituan equity securities and our investments in private companies (see Notes 5 and 6 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). At March 31, 2021, we had a remaining transition tax liability of $1.0 billion as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), which included $923 million reported as "Long-term U.S. transition tax liability" and $90 million included in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. This liability will be paid over the next six years. In accordance with the Tax Act, generally, future repatriation of our international cash will not be subject to a U.S. federal income tax liability as a dividend, but will be subject to U.S. state income taxes and international withholding taxes, which have been accrued by us. In August 2019, we entered into a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $80 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $100 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. The proceeds of loans made under the facility can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, share repurchases and debt repayments. At March 31, 2021, there were no borrowings outstanding and $4 million of letters of credit issued under the facility. The revolving credit facility contains a maximum leverage ratio covenant, compliance with which is a condition to our ability to borrow thereunder. In 2020, we amended the revolving credit facility to (i) suspend the maximum leverage ratio covenant through and including the three months ending March 31, 2022, which was replaced with a $4.5 billion minimum liquidity covenant based on unrestricted cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and unused capacity under this revolving credit facility and (ii) increase the permitted maximum leverage ratio from and including the three months ending June 30, 2022 through and including the three months ending March 31, 2023. We agreed not to declare or make any cash distribution and not to repurchase any of our shares (with certain exceptions including in connection with tax withholding related to shares issued to employees) unless (i) prior to the delivery of financial statements for the three months ending June 30, 2022, we have at least $6.0 billion of liquidity on a pro forma basis, based on unrestricted cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and unused capacity under this revolving credit facility and (ii) after the delivery of financial statements for the three months ending June 30, 2022, we are in compliance on a pro forma basis with the maximum leverage ratio covenant then in effect. Such restriction ends upon delivery of financial statements required for the three months ending June 30, 2023 , or we have the ability to 51 terminate this restriction earlier if we demonstrate compliance with the original maximum leverage ratio covenant in the revolving credit facility. Beginning with the three months ending June 30, 2022, the minimum liquidity covenant will cease to apply and the maximum leverage ratio covenant, as increased, will again be in effect. At March 31, 2021, we were in compliance with the minimum liquidity covenant. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet either the minimum liquidity covenant or the maximum leverage ratio covenant, as applicable, at any particular time, and our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility depends on compliance with the applicable covenant. Further, the lenders have the right to require repayment of any amounts borrowed under the facility if we are not in compliance with the applicable covenant (see Note 9 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). The holders of our Convertible Senior Notes due September 2021 will have the right to convert all or any portion of the Notes beginning on June 15, 2021, regardless of our stock price (see Note 9 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). In March 2021, we issued Senior Notes due March 2025 with an interest rate of 0.1% for an aggregate principal amount of 950 million Euros and Senior Notes due March 2028 with an interest rate of 0.5% for an aggregate principal amount of 750 million Euros. The proceeds from the issuance of these Senior Notes issued in March 2021 were used to redeem the Senior Notes due April 2025 (the "April 2025 Notes") and the Senior Notes due April 2027 (the "April 2027 Notes"). In April 2021, we paid $2.0 billion to redeem the April 2025 Notes and the April 2027 Notes (see Note 9 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). See Note 9 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our debt arrangements, including principal amounts, interest rates and maturity dates. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we repurchased 64,275 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $146 million to satisfy employee withholding tax obligations related to stock-based compensation . At March 31, 2021, we had a remaining aggregate amount of $10.4 billion authorized by our Board of Directors to repurchase our common stock. We have not r epurchased any shares since March 2020 under this stock repurchase authorization and do not intend to initiate any repurchases under this authorization until we have better visibility into the shape and timing of a recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. See Note 9 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the impact of the 2020 credit facility amendment on our ability to repurchase shares. In September 2016, we signed a turnkey agreement to construct an office building for Booking.coms future headquarters in the Netherlands for 270 million Euros ($318 million). Upon signing this agreement, we paid 43 million Euros ($48 million) for the acquired land-use rights. In addition, since signing the turnkey agreement we have made several progress payments principally related to the construction of the building. As of March 31, 2021, we had a remaining obligation of 44 million Euros ($52 million) related to the turnkey agreement. The remaining obligation will be paid through mid-2022, when we anticipate construction will be complete. In addition to the turnkey agreement, we have a remaining obligation at March 31, 2021 to pay 70 million Euros ($82 million) over the remaining initial term of the acquired land lease, which expires in 2065. At March 31, 2021, we had 32 million Euros ($37 million) of outstanding commitments to vendors to fit out and furnish the office space. At March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, we had lease obligations of $545 million a nd $590 million, respectively. Additionally, at March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, we had, in the aggregate, $ 153 million and $193 million, respectively, of non-cancellable purchase obligations individually greater than $10 million. At March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, there were $355 million and $138 million, respectively, of standby letters of credit and bank guarantees issued on our behalf. These are obtained primarily for regulatory purposes and payment guarantees to third-party payment processors. See Note 13 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our commitments and contingencies. We have taken and are taking actions to improve our liquidity including, but not limited to, raising additional capital through the issuance of Senior Notes and Convertible Senior Notes, reducing capital expenditures and operating expenses by significantly reducing marketing spend worldwide and working to eliminate non-essential operating costs, monitoring the financial health of our partners, suppliers and other third-party relationships, implementing a general temporary company-wide hiring freeze for much of 2020 and undertaking certain personnel actions such as furloughs and workforce reductions. We believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, whether as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise, if we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional 52 capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plans, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to compete or our future growth prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, revenue growth or sustained profitability may not be realized, and future borrowings or equity sales may not be available in amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies or repay our indebtedness. Cash Flow Analysis Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $207 million, resulting from a net loss of $55 million and an unfavorable net change in working capital and other long-term assets and liabilities of $262 million, partially offset by a favorable impact from adjustments for non-cash items of $110 million. Non-cash items were principally associated with depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and other stock-based payments, unrealized foreign currency transaction gains on Euro-denominated debt, deferred income tax benefit, operating lease amortization and net gains on marketable equity securities . For the three months ended March 31, 2021, prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $258 million, primarily due to $186 million higher tax benefit as a result of a net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2021, the prepayment of Netherlands income taxes of $175 million, partially offset by $64 million lower prepayments to third party payment processors. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, deferred merchant bookings and other current liabilities increased by $114 million, primarily due to higher deferred merchant bookings on account of increased business volumes, partially offset by a reduction in accrued compensation liabilities as a result of 2020 bonuses being paid during the three months ended March 31, 2021. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, accounts receivable increased by $72 million primarily due to increases in business volumes. Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $380 million, resulting from a net loss of $699 million and an unfavorable net change in working capital and other long-term assets and liabilities of $899 million, partially offset by a favorable impact from adjustments for non-cash items of $1.2 billion. Non-cash items were principally associated with impairment of goodwill, net losses on marketable equity securities, provision for expected credit losses and chargebacks, depreciation and amortization and an impairment of an investment. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $445 million, primarily related to the prepayment of Netherlands income taxes of $717 million, partially offset by the refund for overpayment from a vendor and lower prepayment to third-party payment processors due to decreases in business volume as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, accounts receivable decreased by $760 million and deferred merchant bookings and other current liabilities decreased by $1.1 billion primarily due to decreases in business volumes as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The decrease in deferred merchant bookings and other current liabilities is also due to a reduction in accrued compensation liabilities as a result of 2019 bonuses being paid during the three months ended March 31, 2020. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $65 million, resulting from the purchase of property and equipment. Net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $1.7 billion, resulting from the proceeds from sales and maturities of investmen ts of $1.9 billion, net of purchases of $0.1 billion, partially offset by purchase of property and equipment of $80 million . Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $1.9 billion, almost entirely resulting from the proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $2.0 billion, partially offset by payments for the repurchase of common stock of $137 million . Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $1.3 billion, resulting from payments for the repurchase of common stock. Contingencies French tax authorities conducted audits of Booking.com for the years 2003 through 2012 and years 2013 through 2015 and currently are conducting an audit for the years 2016 through 2018. In December 2015, the French tax authorities issued Booking.com assessments for unpaid income and value added taxes ("VAT") related to tax years 2006 through 2012 for approximately 356 million Euros ($403 million), the majority of which represents penalties and interest. The assessments assert that Booking.com had a permanent establishment in France. In December 2019, the French tax authorities issued an additional assessment of 70 million Euros ($83 million), including interest and penalties, for the 2013 year asserting that Booking.com had taxable income attributable to a permanent establishment in France. The French tax authorities also have issued assessments totaling 39 million Euros ($46 million), including interest and penalties, for certain tax years between 2011 and 2015 on Booking.com's French subsidiary asserting that the subsidiary did not receive sufficient compensation for the services it rendered to Booking.com in the Netherlands. As a result of a formal demand from the French tax authorities for 53 payment of the amounts assessed against Booking.com for the years 2006 through 2012, in January 2019, we paid the assessments of approximately 356 million Euros ($403 million) in order to preserve our right to contest those assessments in court. The payment, which is included in "Other assets, net" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, does not constitute an admission that we owe the taxes and will be refunded (with interest) to us to the extent we prevail. In December 2019 and October 2020, we initiated court proceedings with respect to certain of the assessments. Although we believe that Booking.com has been, and continues to be, in compliance with French tax law, and we are contesting the assessments, during the three months ende d September 30, 2020, we contacted the French tax authorities regarding the potential to achieve resolution of the matter through a settlement. After assessing several potential outcomes and potential settlement amounts and terms, an unrecognized tax benefit in the amount of 50 million Euros ($58 million) was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2020, of which the majority was included as a partial reduction to the tax payment recorded in "Other assets, net" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. In December 2020, the French Administrative Court (Conseil dEtat) delivered a decision in the "ValueClick" case that could have an impact on the outcome in our case. After considering the potential adverse impact of the new decision on the potential outcomes for the Booking.com assessments, we currently estimate that the reasonably possible loss related to VAT is approximately 20 million Euros ($24 million). Additional assessments could result when the French tax authorities complete the outstanding audits. For additional information related to the French and other tax assessments, see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " Beginning in 2014, Booking.com received several letters from the Netherlands Pension Fund for the Travel Industry (Reiswerk) (BPF) claiming that Booking.com is required to participate in the mandatory pension scheme of the BPF with retroactive effect to 1999, which has a higher contribution rate than the pension scheme in which Booking.com is currently participating. BPF instituted legal proceedings against Booking.com and in 2016 the District Court of Amsterdam rejected all of BPFs claims. BPF appealed the decision to the Court of Appeal, and, in May 2019, the Court of Appeal also rejected all of BPFs claims, in each case by ruling that Booking.com does not meet the definition of a travel intermediary for purposes of the mandatory pension scheme. BPF then appealed to the Netherlands Supreme Court. In April 2021, the Supreme Court overturned the previous decision of the Court of Appeal and held that Booking.com meets the definition of a travel intermediary for the purposes of the mandatory pension scheme. The Supreme Court ruled only on the qualification of Booking.com as a travel intermediary for the purposes of the mandatory pension scheme, and did not rule on the various other defenses we brought forward against BPF's claims. The Supreme Court referred the matter to another Court of Appeal that will have to assess the other defenses we brought forward if BPF were to proceed with the litigation. We intend to pursue a number of defenses in any subsequent proceedings and may ultimately prevail in whole or in part. While we continue to believe that Booking.com is in compliance with its pension obligations and that the Court of Appeal could ultimately rule in favor of Booking.com, given the Supreme Courts decision, we believe it is probable that we have incurred a loss related to this matter. We are not able to reasonably estimate a loss or a range of loss because there are significant factual and legal questions yet to be determined in any subsequent proceedings. As a result, as of March 31, 2021, we have not recorded a liability in connection with a potential adverse ultimate outcome to this litigation. However, if Booking.com were to ultimately lose and all of BPFs claims were to be accepted (including with retroactive effect to 1999), we estimate that as of March 31, 2021, the maximum loss, not including any potential interest or penalties, would be approximately $300 million. Such estimated potential loss increases as Booking.com continues not to contribute to the BPF and depends on Booking.coms applicable employee compensation after March 31, 2021. For additional information related to the pension matter and our other contingent liabilities, see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At March 31, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Sections of this Form 10-Q including, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above and the Risk Factors contained in Part II Item 1A hereof, contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. 54 Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "aims," "seeks," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.