Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements " at the end of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Quarterly Report. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, " this discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in " Risk Factors " and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. The information on our websites is not a part of this Quarterly Report and is not incorporated herein by reference. We evaluate our results of operations on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Overview We help people experience the world by providing consumers, travel service providers and restaurants with leading travel and restaurant reservation and related services. Through our online travel companies ("OTCs"), we connect consumers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world. We are the leader in the worldwide online accommodation reservation market based on room nights booked. We offer consumers a broad array of accommodation reservations (including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels, apartments, vacation rentals and other properties) through our Booking.com, priceline.com and agoda.com brands. Our priceline.com brand also offers consumers reservations for rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages and cruises. We offer rental car reservations worldwide through Rentalcars.com. We also allow consumers to easily compare travel reservation information, such as airline ticket, hotel reservation and rental car reservation information, from hundreds of travel websites at once through KAYAK. We provide restaurants with reservation management services and consumers with the ability to make restaurant reservations at participating restaurants through OpenTable, a leading provider of online restaurant reservations. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands, including Booking.com, priceline.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, Rentalcars.com, OpenTable and various smaller brands, collectively as "The Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include five other primary, independently operated brands: Booking.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, Rentalcars.com and OpenTable. Our principal goal is to help people experience the world by serving both consumers and our travel service provider and restaurant partners with worldwide leadership in online reservation and related services. Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda.com and Rentalcars.com and the international businesses of KAYAK and OpenTable (in each case regardless of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while using our services or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant). During the year ended December 31, 2015 , our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 86% of our consolidated gross profit. A significant majority of our gross profit is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations. We derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car, airline ticket and vacation package reservation services; Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; Reservation revenues paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation services, subscription fees for restaurant reservation management services provided by OpenTable and other OpenTable revenues; and Damage excess waiver fees, travel insurance fees and global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees, in each case related to certain of our travel services. Our priceline.com brand offers merchant Name Your Own Price opaque travel services, which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue. All of our other services are recorded in revenue on a "net" 29 basis and have no associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between Name Your Own Price travel services and other services. Gross profit reflects the commission or net margin earned for all of our services. Consequently, gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business because, in contrast to our revenues, it is not affected by the different methods of recording revenue and cost of revenue between our Name Your Own Price travel reservation services and our other services. Trends Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices, the high growth of travel overall in emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America, and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build accommodation supply, content and distribution and to improve the consumer experience on our websites and mobile apps. These year-over-year growth rates have generally decelerated in recent years. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2015, our accommodation room night reservation growth was 25%, a deceleration from 28% in 2014, 37% in 2013, and 40% in 2012. Given the size of our accommodation reservation business, we expect that our year-over-year growth rates will generally continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate and there may be periods of acceleration from time to time. The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet use and e-commerce activity of international consumers have trailed that of consumers in the United States. However, international consumers are increasingly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. We expect that over the long term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. Our growth has primarily been generated by our worldwide accommodation reservation service brand, Booking.com, which is our most significant brand, and has been due, in part, to the availability of a large and growing number of directly bookable properties through Booking.com. Booking.com included over 1,042,000 properties on its website as of September 30, 2016 , which included over 517,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website), and compares to over 807,000 properties (including over 373,000 vacation rental properties) as of September 30, 2015 . We believe that continuing to expand the number and variety of accommodations available through our services, in particular Booking.com, will help us to continue to grow our accommodation reservation business. As part of our strategy to increase the number and variety of accommodations available on Booking.com, Booking.com is increasingly processing transactions on a merchant basis where it facilitates payments on behalf of customers. This allows Booking.com to process transactions for properties that do not accept credit cards and to increase its ability to offer flexible transaction terms to customers, such as the form and timing of payment. Although we will incur additional credit card processing costs related to these transactions, which are recorded as sales and marketing expenses in our statement of operations and which will negatively impact our operating margins, we believe that adding these types of properties and service offerings will benefit our customers and our gross bookings, room night and earnings growth rates. As our international business represents the substantial majority of our financial results, we expect our operating results and other financial metrics to continue to be largely driven by international performance. For example, certain markets in which we operate that are in earlier stages of development have lower operating margins compared to more mature markets, which could have a negative impact on our overall margins as these markets increase in size over time. Also, we intend to continue to invest in adding accommodations available for reservation on our websites, including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels and vacation rentals. Vacation rentals generally consist of, among others, properties categorized as single-unit and multi-unit villas, apartments, "aparthotels" (which are apartments with a front desk and cleaning service) and chalets and are generally self-catered (i.e., include a kitchen), directly bookable properties. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms, lower average daily rates ("ADRs") or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts), and therefore may also negatively impact our margins. For example, because a vacation rental is typically either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, vacation rental properties represent more limited booking opportunities than non-vacation rental properties, which generally have more units to rent per property. Our vacation rental properties in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons, weather or other factors. As we increase our vacation rental property 30 business, these different market characteristics could negatively impact our profit margins; and, to the extent these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our websites, we expect that our gross bookings growth rate and property growth rate will continue to diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of vacation rental properties increases, we expect that the number of reservations per property will likely continue to decrease. Concerns persist about the outlook for the global economy in general, including uncertainty in the European Union. In addition, many governments around the world, including the U.S. government and certain European governments, are operating at large financial deficits, resulting in high levels of sovereign debt in such countries. Greece, Ireland, Portugal and certain other European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt at times have had difficulty refinancing their debt. Failure to reach political consensus regarding workable solutions to these issues has resulted in a high level of uncertainty regarding the future economic outlook. This uncertainty, as well as concern over governmental austerity measures including higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates and cancellation rates and weaker trends in hotel ADRs across many regions of the world, particularly in those European countries that appear to be most affected by economic uncertainties. We believe that these business trends are likely impacted by weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns. Similarly, while China's economy experienced rapid growth over the past 20 years, growth of the Chinese economy slowed in 2015 and concerns about its future growth have had an adverse impact on financial markets, currency exchange rates and other economies. Disruptions in the economies of such countries could cause, contribute to or be indicative of deteriorating macro-economic conditions, which in turn could negatively affect travel to or from such countries or the travel industry in general and therefore have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Greece, in particular, has recently faced and continues to face significant economic challenges, in large part due to its high levels of sovereign debt and difficulties refinancing that debt. This may increase the likelihood that Greece, and in turn other countries, could exit the European Union, which could lead to added economic and political uncertainty and further devaluation or eventual abandonment of the Euro common currency. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which British citizens approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as "Brexit." Since the referendum, global markets and foreign exchange rates have experienced increased volatility, including a sharp decline in the value of the British Pound Sterling as compared to the U.S. Dollar. To leave the European Union, the United Kingdom must provide official notice of its decision to leave and negotiate the terms of its exit, which could take two years or more. Further, on November 3, 2016, the United Kingdom's High Court decided that the U.K. Government could not provide official notice to leave the European Union without Parliament's approval, a decision the U.K. Government has indicated it intends to appeal. While the ruling is not expected to stop Brexit from occurring, it could affect the terms, nature and timetable of the exit. Upon leaving the European Union, among other things, the United Kingdom could lose access to the single European Union market and travel between the United Kingdom and European Union countries could be restricted. We could face new regulatory costs and challenges if U.K. regulations and policies diverge from those of the European Union. Since the timing and terms of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union are unknown, we are unable to predict the effect Brexit will have on our business and results of operations. The United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union could result in other member countries also determining to leave, which could lead to added economic and political uncertainty and further devaluation or eventual abandonment of the Euro common currency, any of which could have a negative impact on travel and therefore our business and results of operations. These and other macro-economic uncertainties, such as sovereign default risk becoming more widespread, declining oil prices and geopolitical tensions, have led to significant volatility in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and other currencies. In March 2015, the European Central Bank, in an effort to stimulate the European economy, launched a quantitative easing program to purchase public debt and, in March 2016, announced an expansion of the program and other stimulus measures. As noted earlier, our international business represents a substantial majority of our financial results. Therefore, because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international businesses are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. Throughout 2015, the U.S. Dollar strengthened significantly year-over-year relative to substantially all currencies in which we transact, most notably the Euro, Brazilian Real, British Pound Sterling, Russian Ruble and Australian Dollar. In the first three quarters of 2016, the U.S. Dollar continued to be stronger year-over-year relative to the British Pound Sterling, Russian Ruble, Brazilian Real and many other major currencies in which we transact. Since the "Brexit" referendum in the United Kingdom in June 2016, the U.S. Dollar has strengthened significantly against the British Pound Sterling, and whether or when the British Pound Sterling will recover is unknown. As a result of these currency exchange rate changes, our foreign currency denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses and net income have been negatively 31 impacted as expressed in U.S. Dollars, although to a much lesser extent in the first three quarters of 2016 than in the first three quarters of 2015. For example, gross profit from our international operations grew 24.6% and 22.1% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, but, without the negative impact of changes in currency exchange rates, grew year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately 26% and 25% , respectively. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins are not significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. The aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated 2022 Notes, 2024 Notes and 2027 Notes, and accrued interest thereon, provide a natural hedge of the net assets of certain of our Euro functional currency subsidiaries. We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results. However, such derivative instruments are short term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact growth rates for our gross bookings, revenues or gross profit (see Note 5 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). Significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, stock markets and oil prices can also impact consumer travel behavior. Consumers traveling from a country whose currency has weakened against other currencies may book lower ADR accommodations, choose to shorten or cancel their international travel plans or choose to travel domestically rather than internationally, any of which could adversely affect our gross bookings, revenues and results of operations, in particular when expressed in U.S. Dollars. For example, the significant weakening of the British Pound Sterling following the Brexit vote in 2016 made it more expensive for British citizens to travel to the United States and many other non-Pound-denominated destinations. In addition, although lower oil prices may lead to increased travel activity as consumers have more discretionary funds and airline fares decrease, recent declines in oil prices and stock market volatility may be indicative of broader macro-economic weakness, which in turn could negatively affect the travel industry and our business. The uncertainty of macro-economic factors and their impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. We compete with both online and traditional travel and restaurant reservation and related services. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, a trend we expect to continue, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. We currently, or may potentially in the future, compete with a variety of companies, including: online travel reservation services such as those owned by Expedia (including Travelocity and Orbitz), Ctrip (in which we hold a minority interest), Rakuten, eDreams ODIGEO and Jalan (which is owned by Recruit); online accommodation search and/or reservation services, such as Airbnb and HomeAway (which is owned by Expedia), currently focused on vacation rental properties and other non-hotel accommodations, including individually owned properties; large online companies, including search, social networking and marketplace companies such as Google, Facebook, Alibaba, Amazon and Groupon; traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators, such as Carlson Wagonlit, American Express, Thomas Cook and TUI Travel, as well as thousands of individual travel agencies around the world; travel service providers such as accommodation providers, rental car companies and airlines; online travel search and price comparison services (generally referred to as "meta-search" services), such as TripAdvisor, trivago (in which Expedia holds a majority ownership interest), Qunar (which is controlled by Ctrip) and HotelsCombined; online restaurant reservation services, such as TripAdvisor's LaFourchette, Yelp's SeatMe and Zomato; and companies offering new rental car business models or car- or ride-sharing services that affect demand for rental cars, some of which have developed innovative technologies to improve efficiency of point-to-point transportation and extensively utilize mobile platforms, such as Uber, Lyft and Zipcar. 32 For more detail regarding the competitive trends and risks we face, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. " and " Consumer adoption and use of mobile devices creates new challenges and may enable device companies such as Apple to compete directly with us. " Widespread adoption of mobile devices, such as the iPhone, Android-enabled smart phones and tablets such as the iPad, coupled with the web browsing functionality and development of thousands of "apps" available on these devices, is driving substantial online traffic and commerce to mobile platforms. We have experienced a significant shift of business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Our major competitors and certain new market entrants are offering mobile apps for travel products and other mobile functionality, including proprietary last-minute discounts for accommodation reservations. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. The gross profit earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. Further, given the device sizes and technical limitations of tablets and smart phones, mobile consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps from multiple companies providing a similar service and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their mobile travel and restaurant research and reservation activity. As a result, the consumer experience with mobile apps as well as brand recognition and loyalty are likely to become increasingly important. Our mobile offerings have received generally strong reviews and are driving a material and increasing share of our business. We believe that mobile bookings present an opportunity for growth and are necessary to maintain and grow our business as consumers increasingly turn to mobile devices instead of a personal computer. If we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly and differentiated mobile offerings and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our mobile offerings are not used by consumers, we could lose market share to existing competitors or new entrants and our business, future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we have observed an increase in promotional pricing to closed user groups (such as loyalty program participants or consumers with registered accounts), including through mobile apps. For example, Marriott International, Hilton, Hyatt Hotels, InterContinental Hotel Group and Choice Hotels International have launched additional initiatives to encourage consumers to book accommodations directly through their websites, with increased discounting and incentives. If we are not as effective as our competitors in offering discounted prices to closed user groups or if we are unable to entice members of our competitors' closed user groups to use our services, our ability to grow and compete could be harmed. If we need to fund discounts out of our gross profit, our profitability could be adversely affected. Further, growth in discounted closed user group retail prices for hotel rooms lessens the price difference for members of closed user groups between a retail hotel reservation and an opaque hotel reservation, which we believe has led to fewer consumers using our opaque hotel reservation services. In addition, hotels typically make available only a limited number of hotel rooms for opaque services like those of our priceline.com business, especially during periods of high occupancy. Recent high hotel occupancy levels in the United States, which have had an adverse impact on our access to hotel rooms for our opaque hotel reservation services, and, we believe, the increased use by consumers of discounted closed user group retail prices for hotel rooms have negatively affected our opaque hotel reservation gross profit. In addition to providing retail travel reservation services, our priceline.com brand is a leading provider of discounted opaque travel reservation services in the United States through its Name Your Own Price and Express Deals offerings. These discounted services are referred to as "opaque" because certain elements of the reservation, including the name of the travel service provider, are not made known to the traveler until after the reservation is made. Priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services also do not disclose the price to be paid and are based on consumer price-based bidding for the reservation. Name Your Own Price reservation services have been declining for some time due to a variety of factors, including competition, complexity and difficulty of use, travel restrictions often required by the travel service provider, difficulty in offering these services on mobile devices and limited availability of travel reservations from travel service providers, particularly during periods of high consumer demand. As a result of these and other factors, in 2012 priceline.com created Express Deals , a travel reservation service where the price is disclosed, but the name of the travel service provider is not made known to the consumer until after the reservation is made. Since then, priceline.com has increasingly de-emphasized its Name Your Own Price services. For example, on September 1, 2016, priceline.com ceased offering its Name Your Own Price airline ticket service altogether, and has also recently ceased offering its Name Your Own Price rental car reservation service on its mobile website. Express Deals services have generally been growing while Name Your Own Price services have been declining. We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotional campaigns. Our performance and brand advertising expenses have both increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , our total performance advertising expense was approximately $2.7 billion , primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel 33 research services and affiliate marketing to generate traffic to our websites. We also invested approximately $255 million in brand advertising during that period, primarily related to costs associated with producing and airing television advertising, online video advertising (for example, on YouTube and Facebook) and online display advertising. We have observed increased brand advertising by OTCs, meta-search services and travel service providers, particularly in North America and Europe, which may make our brand advertising efforts more expensive and less effective. Performance advertising efficiency, expressed as performance advertising expense as a percentage of gross profit, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and the extent to which consumers come directly to our websites or mobile apps for bookings. For example, competition for desired rankings in search results and/or a decline in ad clicks by consumers could increase our costs-per-click and reduce our performance advertising efficiency. We have also experienced increasing cancellation rates, which negatively affects our advertising efficiency and results of operations. Changes by Google in how it presents travel search results or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results may be competitively disadvantageous to us and may impact our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites. We have observed a long-term trend of decreasing performance advertising returns on investment ("ROIs"), a trend we expect to continue, though the rate of decrease may fluctuate and there may be periods of stable or increasing ROIs from time to time. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We rely on performance advertising channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites and enhance our brand awareness. " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in Internet search engine algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " The national competition authorities ("NCAs") of many governments have conducted or are conducting investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. For example, various European NCAs opened investigations primarily related to Booking.com's contractual price parity arrangements with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions. It is uncertain how these issues will finally be resolved. For example, the French, Italian and Swedish NCAs accepted commitments offered by Booking.com to resolve and close their investigations and Booking.com voluntarily implemented these commitments throughout the European Economic Area and Switzerland on July 1, 2015, which resolved the concerns of various other countries. However, in August 2015, France adopted legislation known as the "Macron Law" making price parity agreements illegal, including those that had been approved by the French NCA, and similar legislation is expected to be enacted in Italy. For more information on these investigations and their potential effects on our business, see Note 11 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " As the size of our business grows, we may become increasingly subject to the scrutiny of anti-trust and competition regulators. " To the extent that regulatory authorities impose fines or require changes to our business practices or to those currently common to the industry or legislation is enacted with a similar effect, our business, competitive position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Negative publicity regarding any such investigations could adversely affect our brand and therefore our market share and results of operations. Seasonality A meaningful amount of our gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as the expense is incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which reservations are booked. However, we generally do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs. As a result, we have historically experienced our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation checkouts for the year for our European and North American businesses. We experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters. As these businesses have generally been growing faster than our European and North American businesses, our operating results for the fourth quarter of the year have become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results. In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2016, our first quarter year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were positively impacted by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, as it did in 2015. Conversely, our second quarter 2016 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were adversely impacted by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, as it did in 2015. The timing of other holidays such as Chinese New Year, Carnival and Ramadan can also impact our quarterly year-over-year growth rates. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less 34 variable advertising expense. In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters. Other Factors We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel-related services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual or extreme weather or natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, droughts and volcanic eruptions, travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, Zika, Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu, SARS and MERS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities or travel-related accidents, can disrupt travel or otherwise result in declines in travel demand. Because these events or concerns are largely unpredictable, they can dramatically and suddenly affect travel behavior by consumers, and therefore demand for our services, which can adversely affect our business and results of operations. For example, our business and operations were negatively impacted by the terror attacks in Paris in November 2015, Brussels in March 2016, Orlando in June 2016 and Istanbul and Nice in July 2016; the coup attempt in Turkey in July 2016; Hurricane Sandy, which disrupted travel in the northeastern United States in late 2012; a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency in Japan in 2011; severe flooding in Thailand in October 2011; and disruptive civil unrest in Thailand in 2014. In addition, MERS had an adverse impact on our business in northeast Asia in 2015. Also, in 2015 regional hostilities in the Middle East spurred an unprecedented flow of migrants from that region to Europe. As countries respond to the European migrant crisis, travel between countries in the European Union and to and from the region could be subject to increased restrictions or the closing of borders, which could negatively impact travel to, from or within the European Union and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The recent death of King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand, an important market for our business, particularly agoda.com, which has significant operations in Thailand, could lead to civil or political unrest or other effects in that country that could adversely affect travel to, from or within Thailand or adversely affect our operations located in Thailand, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to grow gross profit and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain gross profit growth and profitability. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for Valuation of Goodwill, Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles A substantial portion of our intangibles and goodwill relates to the acquisitions of OpenTable in July 2014 and KAYAK in May 2013. As of September 30, 2016, we performed our annual goodwill impairment testing. Other than OpenTable, the fair values of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values. For OpenTable, we recognized a non-cash impairment charge for goodwill of $940.7 million , which is not tax deductible, resulting in an adjusted carrying value of OpenTable goodwill of $580.1 million as of September 30, 2016. The goodwill impairment charge was included in operating expenses in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016. OpenTables estimated fair value was determined using a combination of standard valuation techniques, including an income approach (discounted cash flows) and market approaches (EBITDA multiples of comparable publicly-traded companies and precedent transactions). Also, we tested the recoverability of OpenTables other long-lived assets and concluded there was no impairment as of September 30, 2016. The goodwill impairment is primarily the result of a change in OpenTables business strategy that occurred during the third quarter 2016. OpenTables post-acquisition strategy was premised on significant and rapid investment in international expansion and various other growth initiatives, resulting in near-term reduced earnings and profit margins but with the goal of achieving significantly increased revenues and profitability in the long term. This strategy has resulted in limited progress to date. As a result, while OpenTable intends to continue to pursue and invest in international expansion and its other growth initiatives, it intends to do so in a more measured and deliberate manner. This change in strategy resulted in OpenTable updating its forecasted financial results to reflect (a) a material reduction in forecasted long-term financial results from these initiatives, partially offset by (b) improved earnings and profit margins in the near term as a result of the reduced investments. Based on the updated forecast, we have estimated a significant reduction in the fair value of the OpenTable business and recorded the goodwill impairment discussed above. 35 Future events and changing market conditions may lead us to again re-evaluate the assumptions reflected in the updated forecast, including key assumptions regarding OpenTable's expected growth rates and operating margins and the success and timing of its international expansion and other growth initiatives, as well as other key assumptions with respect to matters outside of our control, such as discount rates, currency exchange rates, market EBITDA comparables, and changes in accounting policies or practices, including proposed changes affecting measurement of goodwill and/or impairment testing methodology. If OpenTable does not achieve the results currently expected, its investments, in particular its investments in its international expansion efforts and other growth initiatives, are not successful, or if any of the assumptions underlying our estimate of the value of the OpenTable business, including those mentioned above, prove to be incorrect, we may further refine our forecast for the OpenTable business and recognize an additional goodwill impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 36 Results of Operations Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 compared to the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units booked by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers, net of cancellations, and is widely used in the travel business. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Agency $ 15,757 $ 12,850 22.6 % $ 45,660 $ 37,625 21.4 % Merchant 2,703 1,928 40.2 % 7,316 5,889 24.2 % Total $ 18,460 $ 14,778 24.9 % $ 52,975 $ 43,513 21.7 % Gross bookings increased by 24.9% and 21.7% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 26% and 24% , respectively), principally due to growth of 29.4% and 28.1% , respectively, in accommodation room night reservations and growth of 12.5% and 10.4% , respectively, in rental car day reservations, partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, a decrease in accommodation ADRs (the decline on a constant-currency basis was less than 1%) and decreases in airfares and airline ticket reservations. We believe that unit growth rates and total gross bookings and gross profit growth on a constant-currency basis, each of which exclude the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not charge customers credit cards and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency gross bookings increased 22.6% and 21.4% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily due to growth in gross bookings from Booking.com agency retail accommodation room night reservations, as well as growth in gross bookings from agoda.com agency retail hotel reservations and agency retail rental car reservations for Rentalcars.com and priceline.com, partially offset by lower retail airfares and a decline in retail airline ticket reservations. Merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we facilitate the charging of customers credit cards for the travel services provided. Merchant gross bookings increased 40.2% and 24.2% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily due to growth in gross bookings from the merchant accommodation reservation services for Booking.com and agoda.com and the merchant rental car reservation service for Rentalcars.com. Accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our services for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Room Nights 149.6 115.6 29.4 % 426.8 333.3 28.1 % Rental Car Days 18.0 16.0 12.5 % 52.7 47.7 10.4 % Airline Tickets 1.9 2.0 (2.5 )% 5.7 6.1 (5.5 )% 37 Accommodation room night reservations increased by 29.4% and 28.1% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily due to strong execution by our brand teams to add accommodations to our websites, advertise our brands to consumers and provide a continuously improving experience for customers on our desktop and mobile platforms. Booking.com included over 1,042,000 properties on its website as of September 30, 2016 , which included over 517,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website), compared to over 807,000 properties (including over 373,000 vacation rental properties) as of September 30, 2015 . Rental car day reservations increased by 12.5% and 10.4% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , due to an increase in rental car day reservations for Rentalcars.com, partially offset by a decrease in priceline.com's opaque rental car day reservations. Airline ticket reservations decreased by 2.5% and 5.5% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , due to a decline in priceline.com's retail airline ticket reservations, partially offset by an increase in priceline.com's opaque airline ticket reservations due to growth in Express Deals . On September 1, 2016, priceline.coms Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservation offering was discontinued. Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not charge the customers credit cards and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues consist primarily of travel commissions, as well as GDS reservation booking fees and travel insurance fees, and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Substantially all of the revenue for Booking.com is agency revenue comprised of travel commissions. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we facilitate the charging of customers credit cards for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction net revenues (i.e., to the extent applicable, the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged to us by travel service providers) in connection with (a) the accommodation reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed accommodation reservation services at agoda.com, Booking.com and priceline.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at Rentalcars.com and priceline.coms Express Deals reservation services; (2) transaction revenues representing the price of Name Your Own Price reservations charged to a customer (with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues); (3) ancillary fees, including damage excess waiver and travel insurance fees and GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above; and (4) customer processing fees charged in connection with (a) priceline.com's opaque reservation services and (b) merchant retail accommodation reservation services at priceline.com and agoda.com. Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for (a) sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers and (b) advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; (2) revenues earned by OpenTable for (a) reservation fees (fees paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees earned by OpenTable for restaurant reservation management services; (3) revenues earned by priceline.com for advertising on its websites; and (4) revenues generated by Booking.com's BookingSuite branded accommodation marketing and business analytics services. Revenue from KAYAK is net of intercompany revenues earned by KAYAK from other Priceline Group brands. Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Agency Revenues $ 2,892,449 $ 2,345,673 23.3 % $ 6,245,439 $ 5,127,174 21.8 % Merchant Revenues 620,290 596,503 4.0 % 1,608,189 1,637,191 (1.8 )% Advertising and Other Revenues 177,813 160,725 10.6 % 540,945 459,627 17.7 % Total Revenues $ 3,690,552 $ 3,102,901 18.9 % $ 8,394,573 $ 7,223,992 16.2 % 38 Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 increased 23.3% and 21.8% , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 primarily as a result of growth in agency accommodation room night reservations at Booking.com. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues increased 4.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily due to increases in our merchant price-disclosed accommodation reservation services, particularly at Booking.com, as well as our merchant price-disclosed rental car and airline ticket reservation services, partially offset by decreases in revenues from priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Merchant revenues decreased 1.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily due to decreases in revenues from priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services, partially offset by increases in our merchant price-disclosed accommodation reservation services, particularly at Booking.com, as well as our merchant price-disclosed rental car and airline ticket reservation services. On September 1, 2016, priceline.coms Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservation offering was discontinued. Our priceline.com Name Your Own Price reservation services, which declined year-over-year, are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues. Our other merchant revenues, which in total grew year-over-year, are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs. As a result, changes in Name Your Own Price reservation revenue disproportionately affect merchant revenues as compared to our other merchant revenues. We therefore believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 consisted primarily of advertising revenues, restaurant reservation fees and subscription revenues for restaurant reservation management services. Advertising and other revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 increased 10.6% and 17.7% , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 primarily due to growth in our KAYAK business, reservation fees at OpenTable, advertising revenue at priceline.com and subscription revenue at OpenTable. Cost of Revenues Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Cost of Revenues $ 101,489 $ 155,619 (34.8 )% $ 356,242 $ 511,568 (30.4 )% For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost paid to travel service providers for priceline.com's Name Your Own Price and vacation package reservation services, net of applicable taxes and charges; and (2) fees paid to third parties by KAYAK and priceline.com to return travel itinerary information for consumer search queries. Cost of revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 decreased by 34.8% and 30.4% , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 primarily due to a decrease in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Cost of revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 was positively impacted by a reduction of travel transaction taxes of $5.1 million recorded in the third quarter of 2016 related to a cash refund from the State of Hawaii based on a favorable ruling in the State of Hawaii in the first quarter of 2015. Cost of revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 was positively impacted by a reduction of travel transaction taxes of $13.7 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the third quarter of 2015 principally related to a cash refund from the state of Hawaii based on the aforementioned favorable ruling. Cost of revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was also positively impacted by a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the first quarter of 2015 based on the aforementioned favorable ruling. Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Agency revenues principally consist of travel commissions on accommodation reservations. 39 Gross Profit Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Gross Profit $ 3,589,063 $ 2,947,282 21.8 % $ 8,038,331 $ 6,712,424 19.8 % Gross Margin 97.3 % 95.0 % 95.8 % 92.9 % Total gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 increased by 21.8% and 19.8% , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 23% and 22% , respectively), primarily as a result of the increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , because our revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 these revenues represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Our price-disclosed reservation services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs, have been growing and priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services have been declining. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure for evaluating growth in our business. Gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 was positively impacted by a reduction of travel transaction taxes of $5.1 million recorded in the third quarter of 2016 related to a cash refund from the State of Hawaii based on a favorable ruling in the State of Hawaii in the first quarter of 2015. Gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 was positively impacted by a reduction of travel transaction taxes of $13.7 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the third quarter of 2015 principally related to a cash refund from the State of Hawaii based on the aforementioned favorable ruling. Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was also positively impacted by a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the first quarter of 2015 based on the aforementioned favorable ruling. Gross profit as a percentage of gross bookings was 19.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2016, as compared to 19.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2015. The decrease is primarily due to the timing of booking versus travel resulting from the impact of accelerating gross bookings growth in the three months ended September 30, 2016 and an expanding booking window (a lengthening of the average time between the making of a travel reservation and the travel). Other smaller contributing factors to the variance are the level of accommodation participation in preferred placement and commission override programs, business mix and our discounted closed user group rates. Our international operations accounted for approximately $3.3 billion and $7.1 billion of our gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to $2.6 billion and $5.8 billion, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased by 24.6% and 22.1% , respectively (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 26% and 25% , respectively) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Gross profit attributable to our U.S. businesses decreased by 0.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 and increased by 4.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 due to growth in gross profit for the U.S. businesses of KAYAK and OpenTable, offset by a decrease in gross profit for priceline.com resulting from the favorable travel transaction tax adjustments recorded in 2015. 40 Operating Expenses Advertising Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Performance Advertising $ 1,040,149 $ 784,729 32.5 % $ 2,740,821 $ 2,176,963 25.9 % % of Total Gross Profit 29.0 % 26.6 % 34.1 % 32.4 % Brand Advertising $ 72,792 $ 67,858 7.3 % $ 254,958 $ 219,543 16.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.0 % 2.3 % 3.2 % 3.3 % Performance advertising expenses consist primarily of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; and (4) other performance-based advertisements. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , performance advertising expenses increased over the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily to generate increased gross bookings. Performance advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 due to a year-over-year decline in advertising ROIs, growth of paid traffic channels, and timing of booking versus travel resulting from acceleration in gross bookings growth during the quarter. Performance advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 increased compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 due to growth of paid traffic channels and a year-over-year decline in advertising ROIs. Brand advertising expenses are primarily related to our Booking.com, KAYAK, priceline.com and agoda.com businesses and consist mainly of television advertising, online video advertising (including the airing of our television advertising online) and online display advertising. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , brand advertising expenses increased compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily due to increased online video and television advertising, including associated production costs, principally related to our Booking.com business, partially offset by lower television advertising at KAYAK and priceline.com. We have changed the presentation of advertising expenses in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 1 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Sales and Marketing $ 124,865 $ 93,069 34.2 % $ 322,710 $ 269,536 19.7 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.5 % 3.2 % 4.0 % 4.0 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks associated with merchant transactions; (4) customer relations costs; (5) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables; and (6) promotional and trade show costs. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 due primarily to increased transaction volumes. 41 Personnel Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Personnel $ 347,610 $ 305,329 13.8 % $ 988,615 $ 853,469 15.8 % % of Total Gross Profit 9.7 % 10.4 % 12.3 % 12.7 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation, payroll taxes, and employee health and other benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses. General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change General and Administrative $ 114,586 $ 109,706 4.4 % $ 340,273 $ 308,829 10.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.2 % 3.7 % 4.2 % 4.6 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) personnel-related expenses such as travel, recruiting and training expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , due primarily to higher fees for outside professionals, higher occupancy and office expenses related to the expansion of our international businesses, and higher personnel-related expenses related to increased headcount in all of our businesses. These increases were partially offset by $7.7 million of expense recognized in the third quarter of 2015 for a fair value adjustment to the contingent liability related to an acquisition. Information Technology Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Information Technology $ 36,389 $ 28,830 26.2 % $ 104,974 $ 81,347 29.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.0 % 1.0 % 1.3 % 1.2 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; (3) outsourced data center costs; and (4) payments to outside consultants. Information technology expense increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 78,745 $ 69,054 14.0 % $ 229,328 $ 201,730 13.7 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.2 % 2.3 % 2.9 % 3.0 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 42 2016 , depreciation and amortization expenses increased compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 primarily as a result of increased depreciation expenses due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build-outs to support growth and geographic expansion, as well as increased capitalized software development costs. Impairment of Goodwill Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Impairment of Goodwill $ 940,700 $ 100.0 % $ 940,700 $ 100.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 26.2 % % 11.7 % % During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , we recognized a non-cash impairment charge for goodwill related to OpenTable, which is not tax deductible, of $940.7 million (see Note 6 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates included in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Interest Income $ 24,218 $ 14,682 65.0 % $ 65,857 $ 39,315 67.5 % Interest Expense (55,480 ) (41,436 ) 33.9 % (152,664 ) (116,462 ) 31.1 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (4,431 ) (5,783 ) (23.4 )% (15,362 ) (12,070 ) 27.3 % Impairment of Cost-method Investments % (63,208 ) 100.0 % Total $ (35,693 ) $ (32,537 ) 9.7 % $ (165,377 ) $ (89,217 ) 85.4 % For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , interest income on cash and marketable securities increased compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily due to an increase in the average invested balance and higher yields. Interest expense increased for the three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes issued in November 2015 and May 2016. Interest expense increased for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes issued in March 2015, November 2015 and May 2016, partially offset by the maturity of our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes in March 2015. See Note 7 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange losses of $6.4 million and $6.2 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of foreign exchange fluctuations was insignificant for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in foreign exchange losses of $4.9 million and $15.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , respectively, compared to foreign exchange gains of $1.1 million and foreign exchange losses of $8.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 we recognized $0.9 million and $0.1 million of net realized gains, respectively, compared to $0.3 million of net realized losses and $3.1 million of net realized gains for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively, related to investments, which are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. 43 During the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , we recognized impairments of approximately $63 million related to cost-method investments (see Note 4 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Income Taxes Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Income Tax Expense $ 291,517 $ 259,438 12.4 % $ 489,496 $ 464,699 5.3 % Our effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 was 36.6% and 25.1% , respectively, compared to 17.8% and 18.5% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively. Our 2016 effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%, due to the non-deductible impairment charge for goodwill of $940.7 million related to OpenTable recognized in the third quarter of 2016 (see Note 6 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements), the impairment of our cost-method investment in Hotel Urbano recognized in the first half of 2016 (see Note 4 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements) and U.S. state income taxes, offset by lower international tax rates. Our 2015 effective tax rate differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate as a result of lower international tax rates, partially offset by U.S. state income taxes. The non-deductible impairment charges referred to above have caused our effective tax rate to be higher for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase has been partially offset by the favorable impact of an increased proportion of our income being taxed at lower international tax rates due to the growth of our international businesses. In addition, the increase for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was also partially offset by tax benefits recorded in the second quarter of 2016 arising from U.S. state tax law changes resulting in a net decrease to deferred tax liabilities, mostly associated with acquired intangible assets. A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment, which had a significant beneficial impact on the Company's effective tax rate for those periods. While we expect Booking.com to continue to qualify for Innovation Box Tax treatment with respect to a portion of its earnings for the foreseeable future, the loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit, whether due to a change in tax law or a determination by the Dutch government that Booking.com's activities are not "innovative" or for any other reason, would substantially increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our results of operations. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We may not be able to maintain our 'Innovation Box Tax' benefit. " Until our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, most of our U.S. income will not be subject to a cash tax liability, other than U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our international income except in countries where we have net operating loss carryforwards. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income faster than our U.S. businesses over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international businesses generate an increasing share of our pretax income and as our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire. As of September 30, 2016 , we held approximately $12.2 billion of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments outside of the United States. We currently intend to use our cash held outside the United States to reinvest in our international operations. If that intention changes and we decide to repatriate that cash to the United States, whether due to cash needs in the United States or otherwise, we would incur related U.S. income tax expense, but we would only make income tax payments when we repatriate the cash. We would pay only U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and U.S. state income taxes as long as we have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset our U.S. taxable income. As of December 31, 2015, we had net operating loss carryforwards of $847.9 million and $620.9 million for U.S. federal and state tax purposes, respectively. If our foreign earnings were repatriated, we could be subject to a cash income tax liability on the earnings of our U.S. businesses sooner than would otherwise have been the case. After our net operating loss carryforwards have been fully utilized or expire, foreign tax credits associated with the repatriation of international cash may be used to reduce U.S. federal taxes on the repatriation. 44 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2016 , we had $13.7 billion in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments. Approximately $12.2 billion is held by our international subsidiaries and is denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars, Euros and, to a lesser extent, British Pounds Sterling and other currencies. We currently intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of the United States. If we repatriate cash to the United States, we would utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and beyond that amount incur additional tax payments in the United States. Cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments are comprised of U.S. and foreign corporate bonds, U.S. and foreign government securities, commercial paper, U.S. government agency securities, convertible debt securities and American Depositary Shares ("ADSs") of Ctrip and bank deposits. In May 2016, we issued Senior Notes due June 1, 2026, with an interest rate of 3.6% (the "2026 Notes") for an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion . Interest on the 2026 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1, beginning December 1, 2016. The net proceeds of these notes may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include share repurchases, repayment of debt and acquisitions. See Note 7 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the 2026 Notes. In June 2015, we entered into a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.50% ; or (ii) the greatest of (a) Bank of America, N.A.'s prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% , and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00% , plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50% . Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.085% to 0.20% . The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $70.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50.0 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of September 30, 2016 , there were no borrowings outstanding and approximately $3.8 million of letters of credit issued under the facility. Our Convertible Senior Notes due March 15, 2018, with an interest rate of 1.0% (the "2018 Notes"), became convertible at the option of the holders as of September 30, 2016 . We have not received any notice for conversion of the 2018 Notes through November 4, 2016. If note holders exercise their option to convert, we would be required to repay the principal amount of the 2018 notes in cash and may deliver shares of common stock or cash, at our option, to satisfy the conversion value in excess of the principal amount. We may borrow under the revolving credit facility to satisfy our obligation. In September 2016, we invested $25 million in a Ctrip six-year senior convertible note issued at par value and $25 million in Ctrip ordinary shares. In September 2016, we signed a turnkey agreement to construct an office building in Amsterdam for the future headquarters of Booking.com for approximately 270 million Euros. Upon signing the agreement, we paid approximately 48 million Euros to the developer, principally related to acquired land use rights, and we expect to pay approximately 34 million Euros related to building construction during 2017, with the remainder of payments being paid periodically beginning in 2018 until the expected completion of the building in late 2020. We will also incur capital expenditures to fit out and furnish the office space. We utilized international cash for the September 2016 payment and we expect all future payments to be made from international cash. See Note 11 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , we repurchased 581,828 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $757.5 million . As of September 30, 2016 , we had a remaining authorization of $2.4 billion from our Board of Directors to purchase our common stock. During the period from October 1, 2016 through November 4, 2016, we repurchased 17,289 additional shares for an aggregate cost of $24.9 million . We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. We may use cash-on-hand and cash generated by our operations in the United States to fund our share repurchases. We may also utilize our revolving credit facility or raise funds through the debt capital markets to fund share repurchases. Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from consumers and then we pay most of our travel service providers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant seasonal swings in accounts receivable, deferred merchant bookings and travel service provider payables depending on the level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. 45 Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $2.8 billion , resulting from net income of $1.5 billion and a favorable impact of $1.4 billion for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $68.9 million . For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $104.1 million , primarily related to prepayments of 2016 income taxes in the first and third quarter totaling $515.4 million to earn prepayment discounts, principally by Booking.com. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , accounts receivable increased $470.3 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $526.4 million , primarily related to seasonality and increases in business volumes. Our bookings and revenues are generally higher in the third quarter of the year than in the fourth quarter of the year which typically results in higher accounts receivable, deferred merchant bookings, accounts payable and accrued expenses at September 30 compared to December 31. Non-cash items were principally associated with impairment of goodwill, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, impairment of cost-method investments, amortization of debt discount on our convertible notes and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $2.2 billion, resulting from net income of $2.0 billion and a favorable impact of $385.1 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $211.1 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $86.8 million, primarily related to a prepayment of 2015 income taxes in the first six months by Booking.com to earn a prepayment discount. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, accounts receivable increased $289.6 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $191.9 million, primarily related to seasonality and increases in business volumes. Deferred merchant bookings decreased by $50.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to the seasonality of our agoda.com business, which experiences the highest levels of booking and travel consumption in the first and fourth quarters combined with an initiative which allows their customers to pay near the time of travel rather than at the time of making a reservation. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes and deferred income taxes. Net cash used in investing activities was $2.2 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . Investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 were principally affected by net purchases of investments of $2.0 billion and $48.5 million for the acquisition of land use rights. Net cash used in investing activities was $2.7 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 were affected by net purchases of investments of $2.4 billion, $135.7 million used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, partially offset by net proceeds of $5.2 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts. Cash invested in the purchase of property and equipment was $168.1 million and $126.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities was $322.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 primarily consisted of net proceeds of $994.7 million from the issuance of Senior Notes, excess tax benefits on stock-based awards and other equity deductions of $72.1 million and the exercise of employee stock options of $13.3 million , partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $757.5 million . Net cash used in financing activities was $709.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 primarily consisted of treasury stock purchases of $2.3 billion, payments of $147.6 million related to the conversion of Senior Notes, payment of $10.7 million related to the settlement of the acquisition-date estimated contingent liability related to an acquisition and of $4.0 million related to debt issuance cost for the revolving credit facility, partially offset by the total proceeds of $1.6 billion from the issuance of Senior Notes, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $90.9 million and the exercise of employee stock options of $19.1 million. Contingencies French tax authorities recently concluded an audit that started in 2013 of the years 2003 through 2012 to determine whether Booking.com is in compliance with its tax obligations in France. Booking.com received formal assessments in December 2015 in which the French tax authorities claim that Booking.com has a permanent establishment in France and seek to recover unpaid income taxes and value-added taxes of approximately 356 million Euros, the majority of which would represent penalties and interest. We believe that Booking.com has been, and continues to be, in compliance with French tax law and we intend to contest the assessments. If we are unable to resolve the matter with the French authorities, we would expect to challenge the assessments in the French courts. In order to contest the assessments in court, we may be required to pay, upfront, the full amount or a significant part of any such assessments, though any such payment would not constitute an admission by us that we owe the taxes. French authorities may decide to also audit subsequent tax years, which could result in additional assessments. See Part II Item IA Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " 46 A number of U.S. jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against online travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). In addition, a number of U.S. states, counties and municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes. For additional information, see Note 11 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Adverse application of U.S. state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. " in this Quarterly Report. As a result of this litigation and other attempts by U.S. jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual (including estimated interest and penalties) for the potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes in the amount of approximately $27 million as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 . The accrual is based on our estimate of the probable cost of resolving these issues. Our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded. An estimate for a reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount accrued cannot be reasonably made. If we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash we believe that it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2016 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Sections of this Form 10-Q including, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above and the Risk Factors contained in Part II Item 1A hereof, contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Part II Item 1A, Risk Factors. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 , and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.