Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements " at the end of this Item 2. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, " this discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in " Risk Factors " and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. The information on our websites is not a part of this Quarterly Report and is not incorporated herein by reference. We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Overview Our mission is to help people experience the world. We aim to achieve our mission to help people experience the world through global leadership in online travel and restaurant reservation and related services by: providing consumers with the best choices and prices at any time, in any place, on any device; making it easy for people to find, book and experience their travel desires; and providing platforms, tools and insights to our business partners to help them be successful. We operate six primary brands: Booking.com - the worlds leading brand for booking online accommodation reservations, based on room nights booked. KAYAK - a leading online meta-search service allowing consumers to easily search and compare travel itineraries and prices, including airline ticket, accommodation and rental car reservation information, from hundreds of travel websites at once. priceline - a leading hotel, rental car, airline ticket and vacation package online reservation service in North America. agoda - a leading online accommodation reservation service catering primarily to consumers in the Asia-Pacific region. Rentalcars.com - a leading online worldwide rental car reservation service. OpenTable - a leading online provider of restaurant reservation and information services to consumers and restaurant reservation management and customer acquisition services to restaurants. Our results include FareHarbor and HotelsCombined since they were acquired in April 2018 and November 2018, respectively. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands collectively as "Booking Holdings," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda and Rentalcars.com and the international businesses of KAYAK and OpenTable. This classification is independent of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while using our services or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant. For example, a reservation made through Booking.com (which is domiciled in the Netherlands) at a hotel in New York by a consumer in the United States is part of our international results. During the year ended December 31, 2018 , our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 89% of our consolidated revenues. A significant majority of our revenues, including a significant majority of our international revenues, is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations. See Note 2 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for more geographic information. We derive substantially all of our revenues from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars and other travel services on an agency basis; 32 Travel reservation commissions and transaction net revenues, credit card processing rebates and customer processing fees, in each case in connection with our merchant transactions; Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to online travel companies ("OTCs") and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's platforms; Reservation revenues paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation services, subscription fees for restaurant reservation management services provided by OpenTable; and Ancillary revenues including travel insurance-related revenues and global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees, in each case related to certain of our travel services. Trends Over the last several years, we have experienced significant growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices and the growth of travel overall. We also believe this growth is the result of the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to increase the number and the variety of accommodations we offer our consumers, increase and improve content, build distribution and improve the consumer experience on our online platforms, as well as consistently and effectively marketing our brands through performance and brand marketing efforts. These year-over-year growth rates have generally decelerated. Given the size of our accommodation reservation business, we expect that our year-over-year growth rates will generally continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate and there may be periods of acceleration from time to time. We are a global business, and online travel growth rates vary across the world depending on numerous factors, including local and regional economic conditions, individual disposable income, access to the internet and adoption of e-commerce. Online travel growth rates have generally slowed in markets such as North America and Europe where online activity is high and consumers have been engaging in e-commerce transactions for many years, while online travel growth rates remain relatively high in markets such as Asia-Pacific where incomes are rising more quickly and the increased availability and use of mobile devices has accelerated the growth of internet usage and travel e-commerce transactions. Over the long-term, we expect online travel growth rates to slow as markets continue to mature. However, we believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate, including in both mature and fast-growing markets. Further, we believe that this opportunity for growth exists because we believe we provide significant value to travel service providers, regardless of size or geography, due to our brands' global reach and online marketing expertise. For example, we believe that accommodation providers of all sizes, from large hotel chains to small, independent hotels and alternative accommodations such as homes and apartments, benefit from using our services, which enable them to reach a broader audience of potential customers. Our growth has primarily been generated by our worldwide accommodation reservation service brand, Booking.com, which is our most significant brand, and has been due, in part, to the availability of a large and growing number of properties through Booking.com. Booking.com included approximately 2,376,000 properties on its website at June 30, 2019 , consisting of approximately 438,000 hotels, motels and resorts and approximately 1,938,000 homes, apartments and other unique places to stay, compared to approximately 1,925,000 properties (including approximately 425,000 hotels, motels and resorts and approximately 1,500,000 homes, apartments, and other unique places to stay) at June 30, 2018 . Booking.com categorizes properties listed on its website as either (a) hotels, motels and resorts, which groups together more traditional accommodation types (including hostels and inns), or (b) homes, apartments and other unique places to stay, also referred to as alternative accommodations, which encompasses all other types of accommodations, including bed and breakfasts, villas, apart-hotels and beyond. We intend to continue to invest in adding accommodations available for reservation on our platforms, such as hotels, motels, resorts, homes, apartments and other unique places to stay, however the growth rate of our accommodations may vary in part as a result of removing accommodations from our platforms from time to time. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly-penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts). Because alternative accommodations are often either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, these properties generally represent more limited booking opportunities than hotels, motels and resorts, which generally have more units to rent per property. Further, alternative accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons, weather or other factors or may not be available at peak times due to use by the property owners. We may also experience lower profit margins with respect to these properties due to certain additional costs, such as increased customer service costs, related to offering these accommodations on our platforms. As our alternative accommodation business has increased, these different characteristics have negatively impacted our profit margins and we expect this trend to continue. Further, to the extent these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our platforms, we expect that our room nights growth rate and 33 property growth rate will continue to diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of alternative accommodation properties increases, the number of reservations per property will likely continue to decrease. We believe that continuing to expand the number and variety of accommodations available through our services, in particular Booking.com, will help us to continue to grow our accommodation reservation business. As part of our strategy to provide more payment options to consumers and travel service providers, increase the number and variety of accommodations available on Booking.com and enable the growth of our in-destination activities businesses, Booking.com is increasingly processing transactions on a merchant basis, where it receives payments on behalf of customers. This allows Booking.com to process transactions for travel service providers and to increase its ability to offer secure and flexible transaction terms to consumers, such as the form and timing of payment. We believe that adding these types of service offerings will benefit our customers and partners, as well as our gross bookings, room night and earnings growth rates. However, this results in additional expenses for personnel, payment processing, customer chargebacks (including those related to fraud) and other expenses related to these transactions, which are recorded in "Personnel" and "Sales and other expenses" in our Unaudited Statements of Operations, as well as associated incremental revenues in the form of credit card rebates, for example, which are recorded in "Merchant revenues." As this business continues to grow, we expect these expenses to continue to increase, which would negatively impact our operating margins despite increases in associated incremental revenues. Components of revenues and expenses related to our merchant business may be recognized in different periods. These timing factors could impact our operating margins as well as the relationship between our gross bookings and revenue in a particular period, especially as our merchant business increases as a percentage of our overall business. We compete globally with both online and traditional providers of travel and restaurant reservation and related services. The markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive, constantly evolving and subject to rapid change, and current and new competitors can launch new services at relatively low cost. Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple, Alibaba, Tencent, Amazon and Facebook, have significantly more customers or users, consumer data and financial and other resources than we do, and they may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to enable them to compete more effectively with us. For example, Google has entered various aspects of the online travel market and has grown rapidly in this area, including by offering a flight meta-search product (Google Flights), a hotel meta-search product (Google Hotel Ads), its "Book on Google" reservation functionality and integrating its hotel meta-search product into its Google Maps app, as well as Google Travel, a planning tool which aggregates its flight, hotel and packages products in one website. Our markets are also subject to rapidly changing conditions, including technological developments, consumer behavior changes, regulatory changes and travel service provider consolidation. We expect these trends to continue. For example, we have experienced a significant shift of both direct and indirect business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. In addition, the revenue earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay, have lower accommodation average daily rates ("ADRs") and are not made as far in advance. For more detail regarding the competitive trends and risks we face, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. " and " Consumer adoption and use of mobile devices creates challenges and may enable device companies such as Google and Apple to compete directly with us. " and " We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological or other market changes. " Although we believe that providing an extensive collection of properties, excellent customer service and an intuitive, easy-to-use consumer experience are important factors influencing a consumer's decision to make a reservation, for many consumers, particularly in certain markets, the price of the travel service is the primary factor determining whether a consumer will book a reservation. As a result, it is increasingly important to offer travel services, such as accommodation reservations, at competitive prices, whether through discounts, coupons, closed-user group rates or loyalty programs, or otherwise. These initiatives may result in lower ADRs and lower revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Discounting and couponing coupled with a high degree of consumer shopping behavior is particularly common in Asian markets. In some cases, our competitors are willing to make little or no profit on a transaction, or offer travel services at a loss, in order to gain market share. We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through marketing and promotional campaigns. Historically our performance marketing expenses have increased significantly, however, more recently, we have experienced more moderate growth rates, a trend we expect to continue. Our performance marketing expense is primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services and affiliate marketing to generate traffic to our websites. More recently, growth of some of these channels has slowed. Performance marketing expenses were $2.2 billion for both the six months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018 . We also invested $338 million and $225 million in brand marketing for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, primarily related to costs associated with producing and airing television advertising, online video advertising (for example, on YouTube and Facebook), online display 34 advertising and other brand marketing. We intend to continue a strategy of promoting brand awareness through both online and offline marketing efforts, including by expanding brand campaigns into additional markets, which we expect will increase our brand marketing expenses over time. We have observed increased brand marketing by OTCs, meta-search services and travel service providers, which may make our brand marketing efforts more expensive and less effective. Performance marketing efficiency, expressed as performance marketing expense as a percentage of total revenues, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and the extent to which consumers come directly to our websites or mobile apps for bookings. For example, competition for desired rankings in search results and/or a decline in ad clicks by consumers could increase our costs per click and reduce our performance marketing efficiency. In recent years, we experienced significant increases in our cancellation rates, which negatively affected our marketing efficiency and results of operations. More recently our cancellation rates have decreased, which has benefited our marketing efficiency and results of operations. We believe that many factors influence cancellation rates, and it is uncertain whether future cancellation rates will continue to decrease, stabilize or return to their prior trend of generally increasing over time. Further, cancellation rates could vary period to period without following a discernible trend. Changes by Google in how it presents travel search results, including by placing its own offerings at or near the top of search results, or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results may be competitively disadvantageous to us and may impact our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites. Similarly, changes by our other search and meta-search partners in how they present travel search results or the manner in which they conduct the auction for placement among search results may be competitively disadvantageous to us and may impact our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites. We have observed a long-term trend of decreasing performance marketing returns on investment ("ROIs"), a trend we expect to continue, though the rate of decrease may fluctuate and there may be periods of stable or increasing ROIs from time to time. In addition, we may from time to time, as we did beginning in the third quarter of 2017 through the fourth quarter of 2018, pursue a strategy of improving our performance marketing ROIs, which could negatively impact growth and positively impact performance marketing efficiency and profitability. When evaluating our performance marketing spend, we consider several factors for each channel, such as the customer experience on the advertising platform, the incrementality of the traffic we receive and the anticipated repeat rate from a particular platform, as well as other factors. The amount of business we obtain through each performance marketing channel is impacted by numerous factors, including bidding decisions by us and our competitors (including decisions to optimize performance marketing ROIs) and the marketing efforts and success of those channels to attract consumers and generate demand. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We rely on performance and brand marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our platforms and grow our business. " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in online search and meta-search algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " Perceived or actual adverse economic conditions, including slow, slowing or negative economic growth, high or rising unemployment rates, inflation and weakening currencies, and concerns over government responses such as higher taxes or tariffs and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. Further, political uncertainty, conditions or events, such as the United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union ("Brexit"), including uncertainty or delays in the implementation of Brexit and other political concerns can also negatively affect consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates, increased cancellation rates and weaker trends in ADRs across many regions of the world, particularly in those countries that appear to be most affected by economic and political uncertainties, which we believe are due at least in part to these macro-economic conditions and concerns. For more detail, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance. " These and other macro-economic uncertainties, such as geopolitical tensions and differing central bank monetary policies, have led to significant volatility in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and other currencies. Significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, stock markets and oil prices can also impact consumer travel behavior. As noted earlier, our international business represents a substantial majority of our financial results. Therefore, because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results and the financial condition of our international businesses are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. As a result, both the absolute amounts of and percentage changes in our foreign-currency-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars are affected by currency exchange rate changes. Our foreign-currency-denominated gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars are lower for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 than they would have 35 been had foreign exchange rates remained where they were in the corresponding periods in 2018. For example, total revenues from our international businesses increased by 9.9% and 4.1% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, but, without the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, grew year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately 15% and 10% , respectively. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins have not been significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. Historically, the aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated debt and accrued interest thereon had provided a hedge against the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on the net assets of one of our Euro functional currency subsidiaries. We dedesignated a portion of this hedge in the second quarter of 2019. The foreign currency transaction gains or losses on the Euro-denominated debt that is not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes are recognized in " Foreign currency transactions and other " in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 6 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). For more information, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates." We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on the translation of our consolidated operating results into U.S. Dollars. However, such derivative instruments are short-term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact growth rates for our gross bookings or revenues (see Note 6 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). Many national governments have conducted or are conducting investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. Some countries have adopted or proposed legislation that could also affect business practices within the online travel industry. For example, France and Italy, among others, have adopted legislation making all price parity agreements illegal and similar legislation is under consideration in other countries. Also, a number of governments are investigating or conducting information-gathering exercises with respect to compliance by OTCs with consumer protection laws, including practices related to the display of search results and search ranking algorithms, claims regarding discounts, disclosure of charges and availability, and similar messaging. For more information on these investigations and their potential effects on our business, see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Our business is subject to various competition, anti-trust, consumer protection and online commerce laws, rules and regulations around the world, and as the size of our business grows, the scrutiny of legislators and regulators in these areas may intensify. " In addition to the price parity and consumer protection investigations, from time to time national competition authorities, other governmental agencies, trade associations and private parties take legal actions, including commencing legal proceedings, that may affect our operations. In general, increased regulatory focus on online businesses, including online travel businesses like ours, could result in increased compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. Seasonality A meaningful amount of our gross bookings is generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. However, we generally recognize revenue from these bookings when the travel begins (at "check-in"), which can be in a quarter other than when the reservation is booked. In contrast, we expense the substantial majority of our marketing activities as the expense is incurred, which, in the case of performance marketing in particular, is typically in the quarter in which associated reservations are booked. As a result of this potential timing difference between when we record marketing expense and when we recognize associated revenue, we experience our highest levels of profitability in the third quarter of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation check-ins for the year for our European and North American businesses. The first quarter of the year is typically our lowest level of profitability and may experience additional volatility in earnings growth rates due to these seasonal timing factors. For our Asia-Pacific business, we experience the highest levels of accommodation bookings in the third and fourth quarters of the year, and the highest levels of accommodation check-ins in the fourth quarter. As the relative growth rates for our businesses fluctuate, the quarterly distribution of our operating results may vary. For several years, we experienced an expansion of the booking window (the average time between the making of a travel reservation and the travel), which impacts the relationship between our gross bookings (recognized at the time of booking) and our revenues (recognized at the time of check-in). However, we saw a contraction of the booking window throughout 2018 and in the first half of 2019. Future changes in the length of the booking window will affect the degree to which our gross bookings and revenues occur in the same period and, as a result, whether our gross bookings growth rates and revenue growth rates converge or diverge. In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2019, Easter fell on April 21 and Easter-related travel began in the second quarter, when the associated revenue was recognized. By 36 comparison, in 2018, Easter was on April 1 and a meaningful amount of Easter-related travel began in the week leading up to the holiday with the associated revenue being recognized in the first quarter of 2018. As a result of the shift in Easter timing relative to 2018, our first quarter 2019 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, operating income and operating margins were negatively impacted and our second quarter 2019 year-over-year growth rates were positively impacted. The timing of other holidays such as Ramadan can also impact our quarterly year-over-year growth rates. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable marketing expense. In addition, revenue growth is typically less impacted by decelerating gross bookings growth in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters, but any such deceleration would negatively impact revenue growth in subsequent periods. Conversely, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate accelerates, our operating margins are typically negatively impacted by relatively more variable marketing expense. In addition, revenue growth is typically less impacted by accelerating gross bookings growth in the near term, but any such acceleration would positively impact revenue growth in subsequent periods as a portion of the revenue recognized from such gross bookings will occur in future quarters. Other Factors We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel-related services. Factors beyond our control, such as oil prices, stock market volatility, terrorist attacks, unusual or extreme weather or natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, fires, droughts and volcanic eruptions, travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, Zika and MERS, political instability, changes in economic conditions, wars and regional hostilities, imposition of taxes, tariffs or surcharges by regulatory authorities, changes in trade policies or trade disputes, changes in immigration policies or travel-related accidents, can disrupt travel, limit the ability or willingness of travelers to visit certain locations or otherwise result in declines in travel demand. Because these events or concerns, and the full impact of their effects, are largely unpredictable, they can dramatically and suddenly affect travel behavior by consumers, and therefore demand for our services, which can adversely affect our business and results of operations. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance. " We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, acquisitions. As the overall size of our business has grown, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of services and technologies, including services and technologies that may be outside of our historical core business, and our ability to keep pace may slow. Potential competitors, such as emerging start-ups, may be able to innovate and focus on developing a particularly new product or service faster than we can or may foresee consumer need for new services or technologies before us. Some of our larger competitors or potential competitors have more resources or more established or diversified relationships with consumers than we do, and they could use these advantages in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, entering or investing in travel reservation businesses, investing in research and development, and competing aggressively for highly-skilled employees. For example, because consumers often utilize other online services more frequently than online travel services, a competitor or potential competitor that has established other, more frequent online interactions with consumers may be able to more easily or cost-effectively acquire customers for its online travel services than we can. Our goal is to grow revenue and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain and highly competitive environment in which we operate makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain revenue growth and profitability. 37 Results of Operations Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 compared to the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2018 We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units booked through our OTC brands by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked through our OTC brands by our customers, net of cancellations, and is widely used in the travel business. Our non-OTC brands (KAYAK and OpenTable) have different business metrics from those of our OTC brands, and therefore, search queries through KAYAK and restaurant reservations through OpenTable do not contribute to our gross bookings. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change Agency $ 18,638 $ 19,090 (2.4 )% $ 38,316 $ 39,666 (3.4 )% Merchant 6,401 4,807 33.2 % 12,133 9,240 31.3 % Total $ 25,039 $ 23,896 4.8 % $ 50,449 $ 48,906 3.2 % Gross bookings increased by 4.8% and 3.2% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 10% and 9% , respectively), primarily due to growth of 11.8% and 11.1% , respectively, in accommodation room night reservations, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and a decrease in accommodation ADRs on a constant-currency basis of approximately 1%. We believe that unit growth rates and growth in total gross bookings on a constant-currency basis, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments from travelers for the travel services provided. Agency gross bookings decreased by 2.4% and 3.4% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , almost entirely due to a decrease in gross bookings from agency accommodation room night reservations at Booking.com, partially resulting from the growth of its merchant accommodation reservation services as well as the aforementioned negative impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we facilitate payments from travelers for the travel services provided. Merchant gross bookings increased by 33.2% and 31.3% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , almost entirely due to growth in gross bookings from our merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com and agoda, partially offset by the aforementioned negative impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Booking.com has been expanding its merchant accommodation reservation services to, among other reasons, provide more payment options to consumers and travel service providers, increase the number and variety of accommodations available on Booking.com and enable the growth of our in-destination activities businesses. 38 Accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our services for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change Room nights 213 191 11.8 % 430 387 11.1 % Rental car days 21 21 1.2 % 40 40 % Airline tickets 2 2 2.4 % 4 4 3.4 % Accommodation room night reservations increased by 11.8% and 11.1% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , primarily due to our investments in increasing the accommodation choices we offer our consumers, marketing and providing a continuously improving consumer experience, as well as the overall growth in the travel industry and the ongoing shift from offline to online for travel bookings. The increases for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , were also positively impacted by a decrease in cancellation rates and low growth rate experienced in June 2018. Rental car day reservations increased by 1.2% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018 , and were flat for the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2018, due to an increase in international rental car day reservations, almost entirely offset by a decrease in U.S. rental car day reservations primarily as a result of rental car supply constraints. Airline ticket reservations increased by 2.4% and 3.4% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , due to the growth of priceline's vacation packages product. Revenues Online travel reservation services Substantially all of our revenues are generated by providing online travel reservation services, which facilitate online travel purchases between travel service providers and travelers. Revenues from online travel reservation services are classified into two categories: Agency. Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided. Agency revenues consist almost entirely of travel reservation commissions, as well as certain GDS reservation booking fees and certain travel insurance fees. Substantially all of our agency revenue is from Booking.com agency accommodation reservations. Merchant. Merchant revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided, generally at the time of booking. Merchant revenues include (1) travel reservation commissions and transaction net revenues (i.e., the amount charged to travelers less the amount owed to travel service providers) in connection with our merchant reservation services; (2) credit card processing rebates and customer processing fees; and (3) ancillary fees, including travel insurance-related revenues and certain GDS reservation booking fees. Substantially all merchant revenues are for merchant services derived from transactions where travelers book accommodation reservations or rental car reservations from travel service providers. Advertising and other revenues Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for (a) sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers and (b) advertising placements on KAYAK's platforms; and (2) revenues earned by OpenTable for (a) restaurant reservation services (fees paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees for restaurant management services. 39 Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change Agency revenues $ 2,607 $ 2,567 1.6 % $ 4,556 $ 4,680 (2.6 )% Merchant revenues 959 710 35.0 % 1,562 1,236 26.3 % Advertising and other revenues 284 260 9.2 % 569 549 3.7 % Total revenues $ 3,850 $ 3,537 8.9 % $ 6,687 $ 6,465 3.4 % Total revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, increased by 8.9% and 3.4% (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 14% and 9% , respectively). Revenue growth for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was positively impacted by the timing of Easter falling later in April in 2019 versus in 2018 as discussed above, which resulted in Easter-related revenue being recognized in the second quarter of this year, as compared to being largely recognized in the first quarter in the prior year. Substantially all of the year-over-year increase for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , was related to revenues from our accommodation reservation services. Agency revenues increased by 1.6% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018 , due primarily to the positive impact of Easter falling later in the second quarter in 2019 as compared to in 2018. Agency revenues decreased by 2.6% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2018 , almost entirely due to decreased gross bookings from agency accommodation room night reservations at Booking.com, partially resulting from the growth of its merchant accommodation reservation services. Merchant revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, increased by 35.0% and 26.3% primarily due to the increases in merchant accommodation reservation services. Merchant revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2019 benefited from an adjustment of $53 million in the second quarter of 2019. The $53 million adjustment was due to a correction in the timing of recognizing a component of merchant revenues, which was previously deferred in the first quarter of 2019. Booking.com has been expanding its merchant accommodation reservation services to, among other reasons, provide more payment options to consumers and travel service providers, increase the number and variety of accommodations available on Booking.com and enable the growth of our in-destination activities businesses. Advertising and other revenues increased by 9.2% and 3.7% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , primarily due to the inclusion of approximately $16 million and $32 million in revenue related to HotelsCombined, which was acquired in November 2018, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , respectively, and increased diner reservation revenues at OpenTable. The increase in advertising and other revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2019 , as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2018 , was negatively impacted by an increase in revenues in 2018 resulting from the reduction of $27 million in OpenTable's loyalty program liability in the first quarter of 2018. Total revenues as a percentage of gross bookings was 15.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 , as compared to 14.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 . The increase is due primarily to the impact of Easter falling later in April as well as the $53 million favorable adjustment in the second quarter of 2019 due to a correction in the timing of recognizing a component of merchant revenues, which was previously deferred in the first quarter of 2019. Total revenues as a percentage of gross bookings was 13.3% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 , as compared to 13.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 . Our international businesses accounted for $3.4 billion and $5.9 billion of our total revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , respectively, which increased by 9.9% and 4.1% , respectively, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 15% and 10% , respectively). Total revenues attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by 0.7% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018 . Total revenues attributable to our U.S. businesses decreased by 1.3% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the six months ended June 30, 2018 , due primarily to the reduction of $27 million in OpenTable's loyalty program liability in the first quarter of 2018. 40 Operating Expenses Marketing Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change Performance marketing $ 1,192 $ 1,142 4.4 % $ 2,222 $ 2,248 (1.2 )% % of Total revenues 31.0 % 32.3 % 33.2 % 34.8 % Brand marketing $ 175 $ 124 41.0 % $ 338 $ 225 50.0 % % of Total revenues 4.5 % 3.5 % 5.0 % 3.5 % We rely on performance marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. Performance marketing expenses consist primarily of the costs of: (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; and (4) other performance-based marketing and incentives. For the three months ended June 30, 2019 , performance marketing expenses increased compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018 , to generate increased gross bookings and revenues. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , performance marketing expense growth was negatively impacted by foreign exchange rate fluctuations and slowing growth in performance marketing channels. We adjust our performance marketing spend based on our growth and profitability objectives and the expected performance of our performance marketing channels. Performance marketing expense as a percentage of total revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , due to changes in the share of traffic by channel, primarily related to an increase in the share of direct traffic, and the timing of booking versus travel. We recognize the substantial majority of our performance marketing expenses as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which the associated reservations are booked. In contrast, we generally do not recognize revenue from these reservations until the travel begins, which can be in a quarter other than when the reservations are booked. Brand marketing expenses consist primarily of television advertising, online video advertising (including the airing of our television advertising online) and online display advertising, as well as other marketing spend such as public relations, sponsorships and trade shows. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , brand marketing expenses increased by 41.0% and 50.0% , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively, primarily due to increased brand marketing expenses at Booking.com in order to increase brand awareness and grow the number of customers that come directly to the Booking.com platforms. Sales and Other Expenses Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change Sales and other expenses $ 248 $ 203 22.1 % $ 463 $ 369 25.4 % % of Total revenues 6.5 % 5.8 % 6.9 % 5.7 % Sales and other expenses consist primarily of: (1) credit card and other payment processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for customer chargebacks associated with merchant transactions; (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables; and (5) customer relations costs. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , sales and other expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , due primarily to increases in our merchant transaction volumes, partially offset by lower chargeback expense. 41 Personnel Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change Personnel $ 619 $ 522 18.5 % $ 1,120 $ 1,021 9.6 % % of Total revenues 16.1 % 14.8 % 16.7 % 15.8 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes, and employee health and other benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , due to an accrual of $66 million recorded in the second quarter of 2019 to correct an immaterial error related to the nonpayment in prior periods of a wage-related tax under Netherlands' law on compensation paid to certain highly-compensated former employees in the year of their separation from employment with Booking.com. The increases were also the result of increases in aggregate salaries of $32 million and $57 million, respectively, related to headcount growth to support our businesses, largely offset by lower bonus expenses. Stock-based compensation expense was $79 million and $153 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , respectively, compared to $75 million and $146 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively. Headcount increased, primarily in the areas of customer service and information technology to support transaction growth and various business initiatives, such as alternative accommodations, marketing, payments and in-destination experiences. General and Administrative Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change General and administrative $ 180 $ 159 13.8 % $ 371 $ 322 15.6 % % of Total revenues 4.7 % 4.5 % 5.5 % 5.0 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) personnel-related expenses such as travel, relocation, recruiting and training expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , due to increased professional fees, higher occupancy and office expenses and personnel-related expenses associated with increased headcount to support the expansion of our international businesses. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 , general and administrative expenses were also impacted by a $9 million increase in the fair value of the liability associated with the earnout arrangement for a 2015 acquisition. Information Technology Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change Information technology $ 70 $ 59 19.2 % $ 135 $ 119 13.3 % % of Total revenues 1.8 % 1.7 % 2.0 % 1.8 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) data center and cloud costs; (3) payments to outside consultants; and (4) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services. Information technology expenses increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , due primarily to increased data center and cloud costs, as well as increased software license fees. 42 Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change Depreciation and amortization $ 119 $ 107 11.3 % $ 235 $ 210 12.0 % % of Total revenues 3.1 % 3.0 % 3.5 % 3.2 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation of computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , primarily as a result of increases of $6 million and $13 million, respectively, in data center equipment depreciation expenses and $5 million and $10 million, respectively, of internally developed software depreciation expenses due to higher capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs to support growth and geographic expansion. Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change Interest income $ 34 $ 46 (23.9 )% $ 69 $ 93 (25.1 )% Interest expense (68 ) (65 ) 4.8 % (134 ) (135 ) (0.8 )% Net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities 17 21 (23.6 )% 468 76 512.3 % Foreign currency transactions and other (23 ) (13 ) 58.7 % (31 ) (22 ) 35.7 % Total $ (40 ) $ (11 ) 226.5 % $ 372 $ 12 3353.6 % Interest income decreased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , primarily due to lower average invested balances and lower yields. Net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were related to our equity investments in Ctrip.com International Ltd. ("Ctrip") and Meituan Dianping. Our investment in Meituan Dianping became classified as marketable equity securities as a result of its initial public offering in September 2018. Net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were related to our equity investment in Ctrip. See Note 5 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Foreign currency transactions and other includes foreign currency gains or losses on derivative contracts, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, including costs related to foreign currency transactions, net realized gains or losses on investments and other income or expense. Foreign currency transaction losses, including costs related to foreign currency transactions, resulted in foreign currency losses of $34 million and $43 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , respectively, and foreign currency losses of $13 million and $20 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 , respectively. Foreign currency transaction losses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 included $18 million related to the portion of our Euro-denominated debt that was not designated as a net investment hedge in the second quarter of 2019. In addition, foreign currency transactions and other included net realized gains of $10 million and $11 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 , respectively, and a net realized loss of $1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 from sales of investments in debt securities. 43 Income Taxes Three Months Ended June 30, (in millions) Six Months Ended June 30, (in millions) 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change Income tax expense $ 228 $ 232 (1.5 )% $ 431 $ 378 14.2 % % of Earnings before income taxes 18.9 % 19.2 % 19.8 % 19.2 % Our 2019 effective tax rates differ from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% , primarily due to the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax (discussed below), partially offset by the effect of higher international tax rates. Our 2018 effective tax rates differ from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% , primarily due to the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax, U.S. state tax rate changes that resulted in a net decrease to deferred tax liabilities associated with acquired intangible assets and excess tax benefits recognized from the vesting of equity awards, partially offset by the effect of higher international tax rates and U.S. federal and state tax associated with our international earnings resulting from the introduction of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"). Our effective tax rate was lower for the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018 , primarily as a result of lower U.S. federal and state tax associated with the our current year international earnings resulting from the introduction of the Tax Act and lower discrete tax charges related to unrealized gains on equity securities, partially offset by lower U.S. state tax rate change benefits on deferred tax liabilities associated with acquired intangible assets. Our effective tax rate was higher for the six months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the six months ended June 30, 2018 , primarily as a result of higher discrete tax charges related to unrealized gains on equity securities and lower excess tax benefits recognized from the vesting of equity awards, partially offset by lower U.S. federal and state tax associated with our current year international earnings resulting from the introduction of the Tax Act. A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment under Dutch tax law, which had a significant beneficial impact on the Company's effective tax rates for those periods. While we expect Booking.com to continue to qualify for Innovation Box Tax treatment with respect to a portion of its earnings for the foreseeable future, the loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit, whether due to a change in tax law or a determination by the Dutch government that Booking.com's activities are not innovative or for any other reason, would substantially increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our results of operations. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We may not be able to maintain our 'Innovation Box Tax' benefit. " 44 Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2019 , we had $11.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments, of which approximately $3.8 billion is held by our international subsidiaries and is denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars, Euros and, to a lesser extent, British Pounds Sterling and other currencies. Cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments are comprised of U.S. and international corporate bonds, U.S. and international government securities, money market funds, time deposits and certificates of deposit, convertible debt securities and American Depositary Shares ("ADSs") of Ctrip, Meituan Dianping equity securities as well as our investments in private companies. Debt securities included $500 million of Ctrip convertible notes that were repaid on maturity in August 2019. See Notes 5 and 6 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. At June 30, 2019 , we had a remaining transition tax liability of $1.2 billion as a result of the Tax Act, which included $1.1 billion reported as "Long-term U.S. transition tax liability" and $103 million included in " Accrued expenses and other current liabilities " in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. This liability will be paid over the next seven years. In accordance with the Tax Act, generally, future repatriation of our international cash will not be subject to a U.S. federal income tax liability as a dividend, but will be subject to U.S. state income taxes and international withholding taxes, which have been accrued by the Company. In June 2015, we entered into a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $70 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. We made several short-term borrowings under this revolving credit facility in 2019 totaling $400 million , all of which were repaid prior to June 30, 2019 . At June 30, 2019 , there were no borrowings outstanding and $5 million of letters of credit issued under the facility. See Note 9 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to the revolving credit facility. Our Convertible Senior Notes due June 2020 (the 2020 Notes) are reported as current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 30, 2019 . The holders will have the right to convert all or any portion of the 2020 Notes at March 15, 2020 regardless of our stock price (see Note 9 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). During the six months ended June 30, 2019 , we repurchased 3,061,228 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $5.5 billion . At June 30, 2019 , we had a remaining aggregate amount of $14.2 billion authorized by our Board of Directors to repurchase our common stock. We have continued to make repurchases of our common stock in the third quarter of 2019 and may continue to make additional repurchases of our common stock from time to time, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. In September 2016, we signed a turnkey agreement to construct an office building for Booking.coms headquarters in the Netherlands for 270 million Euros. Upon signing this agreement, we paid 43 million Euros for the acquired land-use rights. In addition, since signing the turnkey agreement we have made several progress payments principally related to the construction of the building. At June 30, 2019 , we have a remaining obligation of 139 million Euros ( $159 million ) related to the building construction, which will be paid through 2021, when we anticipate construction will be complete. In addition to the turnkey agreement, we have a remaining obligation at June 30, 2019 to pay 72 million Euros ( $83 million ) over the remaining term of the acquired land lease. We will also make additional capital expenditures to fit out and furnish the office space. See Note 13 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to our commitments and contingencies. Cash Flow Analysis Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $353 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the six months ended June 30, 2018 , primarily due to the payment of $403 million in 2019 to French tax authorities in order to preserve our right to contest certain tax assessments in court (see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $1.9 billion , resulting from net income of $1.7 billion , a favorable impact from adjustments for non-cash items of $185 million and net favorable changes in working capital and other long-term assets and liabilities of $8 million . Non-cash items were principally associated with net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities, depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation expense. For the 45 six months ended June 30, 2019 , prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $584 million primarily related to the prepayments of Netherlands income taxes, net of utilization during the period, of $486 million by Booking.com to earn prepayment discounts and an increase in prepayments to suppliers of $97 million . For the six months ended June 30, 2019 , accounts receivable increased by $523 million primarily related to increases in business volumes. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 , accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $1.5 billion primarily related to growth in Booking.com's merchant transactions and increases in business volumes. Due to the typical seasonality of our business, our gross bookings and revenues are generally higher in the second quarter of the year than in the fourth quarter of the year which typically results in higher accounts receivable, deferred merchant bookings, accounts payable and accrued expenses at June 30 compared to December 31. Net change in other long-term assets and liabilities of $398 million was due to the increase in other long-term assets related to the payment of $403 million to French tax authorities in order to preserve our right to contest the assessments in court (see Note 13 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $2.3 billion , resulting from net income of $1.6 billion , a favorable impact from adjustments for non-cash items of $355 million and net favorable changes in working capital and other long-term assets and liabilities of $350 million . Non-cash items were principally associated with depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 , prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $574 million , primarily related to the prepayments of Netherlands income taxes, net of utilization during the period, of $392 million to earn prepayment discounts, principally by Booking.com, and an increase in prepayments to suppliers of $113 million. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 , accounts receivable increased by $392 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $1.3 billion , primarily related to increases in business volumes. Net cash provided by investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $6.2 billion , principally resulting from the proceeds from sales and maturities of investments, net of purchases, of $6.4 billion . Net cash provided by investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $1.8 billion , principally resulting from the proceeds from sales and maturities of investments, net of purchases, of $2.1 billion , partially offset by acquisitions and other investments, net of cash acquired, of $139 million . Cash invested in the purchase of property and equipment was $199 million and $235 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Cash invested in the purchase of property and equipment for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, included payments of $18 million and $41 million related to the turnkey agreement for constructing Booking.com's future headquarters. Net cash used in financing activities was $5.5 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2019 , resulting from payments for the repurchase of common stock of $5.5 billion . Net cash used in financing activities was $3.4 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2018 , which primarily consisted of payments for the repurchase of common stock of $1.9 billion and payments for the conversion of Senior Notes of $1.5 billion . Contingencies French tax authorities conducted an audit of Booking.com for the years 2003 through 2012. They are asserting that Booking.com has a permanent establishment in France and are seeking to recover what they claim are unpaid income and value-added taxes. In December 2015, the French tax authorities issued Booking.com assessments related to those tax years for approximately 356 million Euros, the majority of which would represent penalties and interest. We believe that Booking.com has been, and continues to be, in compliance with French tax law and we are contesting the assessments. In December 2018, the French tax authorities issued a formal demand for payment of the amounts assessed. As a result, in January 2019, we paid the assessments of approximately 356 million Euros ( $403 million ) in order to preserve our right to contest the assessments in court, which is included in " Other assets " in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 30, 2019 . Such payment does not constitute an admission that we owe the taxes and will be refunded (with interest) to us to the extent we prevail. If we are unable to resolve the matter with the French tax authorities, we plan to challenge the assessments in the French courts. The French tax authorities have begun a similar audit of the tax years 2013 through 2015 and recently extended the audit to include the years 2016 through 2018, both of which could result in additional assessments. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At June 30, 2019 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 46 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Sections of this Form 10-Q including, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above and the Risk Factors contained in Part II Item 1A hereof, contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Part II Item 1A, Risk Factors. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 , and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.