Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (In thousands, except per share amounts) Total revenues $ 6,793,306 $ 5,260,956 $ 4,355,610 $ 3,084,905 $ 2,338,212 Cost of revenues 1,077,420 1,177,275 1,275,730 1,175,934 1,077,449 Gross profit 5,715,886 4,083,681 3,079,880 1,908,971 1,260,763 Total operating expenses 3,303,472 2,253,888 1,680,958 1,122,174 789,928 Operating income 2,412,414 1,829,793 1,398,922 786,797 470,835 Total other expense 115,877 67,924 31,128 40,514 28,533 Income tax expense (benefit) (1) 403,739 337,832 308,663 218,141 (47,168 ) Equity in income (loss) income of investees 2 Net income (1) 1,892,798 1,424,037 1,059,131 528,142 489,472 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (2) 135 4,471 2,760 601 Net income applicable to common stockholders (1) 1,892,663 1,419,566 1,056,371 527,541 489,472 Net income applicable to common stockholders per basic common share (1) 37.17 28.48 21.27 11.00 11.54 Net income applicable to common stockholders per diluted share (1) 36.11 27.66 20.63 10.35 9.88 Total assets 10,444,460 6,569,742 3,970,671 2,905,953 1,834,224 Long-term obligations, redeemable noncontrolling interests (3) 2,304,917 1,731,385 788,218 621,624 263,708 Total liabilities 3,526,198 2,457,825 1,191,971 1,046,828 476,610 Total stockholders' equity 6,909,729 3,896,975 2,574,295 1,813,336 1,321,629 _____________________________ (1) The Company recorded non-cash income tax benefits for the year ended December 31, 2009, resulting from the reversal of a portion of its valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards of $183.3 million. (2) Redeemable noncontrolling interests beginning in 2010 relates to the Company's purchase of rentalcars.com in May 2010. In April 2011, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2011, the redeemable noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com were reduced from 24.4% to 19.0%. In April 2012, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2012, the redeemable noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com were reduced from 19.0% to 12.7%. In April 2013, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2013, the Company purchased the remaining outstanding shares underlying the redeemable noncontrolling interests. (3) Includes convertible debt which is classified as a current liability. 39 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in this Form 10-K. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," this discussion contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Overview We are a leading online travel company that connects consumers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world. We offer consumers accommodation reservations through our Booking.com, priceline.com, and Agoda.com brands. In the United States, we also offer consumers reservations for rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages and cruises through the priceline.com brand. We offer rental car reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com. We also allow consumers to easily compare airline ticket, hotel reservation and rental car reservation information from hundreds of travel websites at once through KAYAK's websites and mobile applications (or "apps"). We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands, including Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda.com, KAYAK and rentalcars.com, collectively as "The Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include Booking.com, Agoda.com, KAYAK, and rentalcars.com, which are independently managed and operated brands. Our principal goal is to serve consumers with worldwide leadership in online travel services. Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, Agoda.com and rental cars.com, as well as the results of KAYAK's international based websites, in each case regardless of where the consumer is resident, from where the consumer makes a reservation or where the travel service is provided. During the year ended December 31, 2013, our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 85% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately 94% of our consolidated operating income. A significant majority of our gross profit is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations. We derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car, and vacation package reservation services; Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to travel service providers and OTAs as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; and Global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees related to our Name Your Own Price accommodation, rental car and airline ticket reservation services, and price-disclosed airline ticket and rental car reservation services. The retail and semi-opaque travel services offered by our U.S. and international brands are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue. Our priceline.com U.S. brand offers merchant Name Your Own Price opaque travel services, which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between Name Your Own Price travel services and other travel services. Gross profit reflects the commission or net margin earned for our retail, Name Your Own Price and semi-opaque travel services. Consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business because, in contrast to our revenues, it is not affected by the mix between our Name Your Own Price travel services and our other travel services. Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices, the high growth of travel overall in emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America, and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build accommodation supply, content and distribution and to improve the customer experience on our websites and mobile apps. We experienced strong year-over-year growth in recent years, though that growth has generally decelerated. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2013 , our accommodation room night reservation growth was 37% , a deceleration from 40% in 2012 and 53% in 2011. Given 40 the size of our hotel reservation business, we believe it is highly likely that our year-over-year growth rates will continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate. Many governments around the world, including the U.S. government and certain European governments, are operating at large financial deficits, resulting in high levels of sovereign debt in such countries. Failure to reach political consensus regarding workable solutions to these issues has resulted in a high level of uncertainty regarding the future economic outlook. This uncertainty, as well as concern over governmental austerity measures including higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates and weaker trends in hotel average daily rates ("ADRs") across many regions of the world, particularly in those European countries that appear to be most affected by economic uncertainties. We believe that these business trends are likely impacted by weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns. Disruptions in the economies of such countries could cause, contribute to or be indicative of deteriorating macro-economic conditions. In addition, during periods of elevated uncertainty, the value of the U.S. Dollar compared to other currencies, including the Euro, has often increased, which adversely affects our gross bookings, gross profit, operating income and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars. The uncertainty of macro-economic factors and their impact on consumer behavior across regions, which may differ, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. We compete with both online and traditional travel reservation services. The market for the travel reservation services we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple and Facebook, have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do, and they may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to enable them to compete more effectively with us. We currently, or potentially will, compete with a variety of companies, including: Online travel reservation services such as those owned by Expedia, Orbitz, Travelocity, Ctrip, Rakuten, ODIGEO, Jalan and Wotif; large online portal, social networking, group buying and search companies, such as Google, Facebook and Groupon; traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators, such as Carlson Wagonlit, American Express, Thomas Cook and Tui Travel, as well as thousands of individual travel agencies around the world; travel service providers such as accommodation providers, rental car companies and airlines; and online travel search and price comparison services (generally referred to as "meta-search" services), such as trivago (in which Expedia has acquired a majority ownership interest), TripAdvisor, Qunar and HotelsCombined. TripAdvisor, the world's leading travel research and review website and the world's largest online travel service with over 260 million unique monthly visitors across its websites, Google, the world's largest search engine, and other large, established companies with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic have launched meta-search services and may create additional inroads into online travel, both in the United States and internationally. Meta-search services leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the consumer's specific itinerary across travel service provider (e.g. hotels, rental car companies or airlines), OTA and other travel websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers. Meta-search services intend to appeal to consumers by showing broader travel search results than may be available through OTAs or other travel websites, which could lead to travel service providers or others gaining a larger share of search traffic. TripAdvisor has begun supporting its meta-search service with offline advertising, and trivago, a leading meta-search service in Europe, recently expanded its offline advertising campaign into the United States. Google offers "Hotel Finder", a meta-search service that Google has at times placed at or near the top of hotel-related search results. As a result of our recent acquisition of KAYAK, a meta-search service, we now compete more directly with other meta-search services. As a meta-search service, KAYAK depends on access to information related to travel service pricing, schedules, availability and other related information from OTAs and travel service providers. As consumers attempt to be more efficient in their shopping behavior, they may favor travel services offered by meta-search websites or search companies over OTAs, which could reduce traffic to our travel reservation websites, increase consumer awareness of our competitors' brands and websites and increase our advertising and other customer acquisition costs. To the extent any such consumer behavior leads to growth in our KAYAK meta-search business, such growth may not result in sufficient increases in profits from our KAYAK meta-search business to offset any related decrease in profits experienced by 41 our OTA brands. Further, meta-search services may evolve into more traditional OTAs by offering consumers the ability to make travel reservations directly through their websites. For example, TripAdvisor facilitates hotel reservations on its transactional websites Tingo and Jetsetter and intends to allow consumers to make a reservation while staying on TripAdvisor. To the extent consumers book travel services through a meta-search website or directly with a travel service provider after visiting a meta-search website or meta-search utility on a traditional search engine without using an OTA like us, or if meta-search services limit our participation within their search results, we may need to increase our advertising or other customer acquisition costs to maintain or grow our reservation bookings, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Travel service providers, including multi-national hotel chains, rental car companies and airlines with which we conduct business, compete with us in online channels to drive consumers to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us. Travel service providers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours. Widespread adoption of mobile devices, such as the iPhone, Android-enabled smart phones, and tablets such as the iPad, coupled with the improved web browsing functionality and development of thousands of useful "apps" available on these devices, is driving substantial traffic and commerce activity to mobile platforms. We have experienced a significant shift of business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Our major competitors and certain new market entrants are offering mobile applications for travel products and other functionality, including proprietary last-minute discounts for accommodation reservations. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. The gross profit earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. Further, given the device sizes and technical limitations of tablets and smartphones, mobile consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps from multiple travel service providers and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their mobile travel activity. As a result, the consumer experience with mobile apps as well as brand recognition and loyalty are likely to become increasingly important. We have made significant progress creating mobile offerings, which have received strong reviews and solid download trends, and which are driving a material and increasing share of our business. We believe that mobile bookings present an opportunity for growth and are necessary to maintain and grow our business as consumers increasingly turn to mobile devices instead of a personal computer and to mobile applications instead of a web browser. If we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly and differentiated mobile offerings and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our mobile apps are not downloaded and used by consumers, we could lose market share to existing competitors or new entrants and our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. Apple, Inc., one of the most innovative and successful companies in the world and producer of, among other things, the iPhone and iPad, obtained a patent for "iTravel," a mobile app that would allow a traveler to check in for a travel reservation. In addition, Apple's iPhone operating system includes "Passbook," a virtual wallet app that holds tickets, boarding passes, coupons and gift cards, and along with iTravel, may be indicative of Apple's intent to enter the travel reservations business in some capacity. Apple has substantial market share in the smart phone category and controls integration of offerings, including travel services, into its mobile operating system. Apple also has more experience producing and developing mobile apps and has access to greater resources than we have. Apple may use or expand iTravel, Passbook, Siri (Apple's voice recognition "concierge" service) or another mobile app as a means of entering the travel reservations marketplace. Similarly, Google's Android operating system is the leading smart phone operating system in the world. As a result, Google could leverage its Android operating system to give its travel services a competitive advantage, either technically or with prominence on its Google Play app store or within its mobile search results. To the extent Apple or Google use their mobile operating systems or app distribution channels to favor their own travel service offerings, our business could be harmed. There has been a proliferation of new channels through which accommodation providers can offer reservations. For example, some accommodations offer reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social, which sell coupons to customers at a substantial discount. In 2011, Expedia, one of our largest competitors, entered into a partnership with Groupon to facilitate accommodation reservations to Groupon customers under the "Groupon Getaways" brand name. New entrants, such as HotelTonight, BackBid, GuestMob, Tingo, Hipmunk and Room 77, have developed new and differentiated offerings that endeavor to provide savings on accommodation reservations to consumers and that compete directly with us. If any of these new services are successful, we may experience less demand for our services and are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. 42 In August 2013, Expedia and Travelocity announced that they had entered into an exclusive, long-term strategic marketing agreement, whereby Expedia will power the technology platforms for Travelocity's existing websites in the United States and Canada, while providing Travelocity access to Expedia's supply and customer services. To the extent this arrangement enhances Expedia's and/or Travelocity's ability to compete with us in the affected markets, our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected. We use third party websites, including online search engines (primarily Google) and meta-search and travel research services, and affiliate marketing as primary means of generating traffic to our websites. As a result, our online advertising expense has increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue. In addition, our online advertising expense has generally been growing faster than our gross profit due to (1) lower returns on investment ("ROIs") from our online advertising, (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group and (3) channel mix within certain of our brands. Our online advertising ROIs were down year-over-year for the year ended December 31, 2013 . Furthermore, our international brands are generally growing faster than our U.S. brands, and typically spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. Finally, certain of our brands are obtaining an increasing share of traffic through paid online advertising channels. We also intend to continue to invest in offline advertising, in particular for our Booking.com, priceline.com and KAYAK brands, and expect to increase our overall offline advertising spend in 2014. For example, building on its first offline advertising campaign, which it launched in the United States in 2013, Booking.com recently began offline advertising campaigns in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom and may expand its offline advertising into other markets during 2014. The inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013 had a favorable impact on online advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 because KAYAK spends a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other brands, and our consolidated results exclude intercompany advertising by our brands on KAYAK. This favorable impact will benefit year-over-year comparisons until the anniversary of the acquisition on May 21, 2014. Advertising efficiency is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates and our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and then having customers return directly to our websites or mobile apps for future bookings. International Trends . The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet adoption rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the United States. However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. We expect that over the long-term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. Our growth has primarily been generated by our international accommodation reservation service brands, Booking.com and Agoda.com. Booking.com, our most significant brand, includes over 425,000 properties on its website as of February 18, 2014 (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from both a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. As our international business represents the substantial majority of our financial results, we expect to continue to see our operating results and other financial metrics largely driven by international performance. For example, certain newer markets in which we operate that are in earlier stages of development have lower operating margins compared to more mature markets, which could have a negative impact on our overall margins as these markets increase in size over time. Also, we intend to continue to invest in adding accommodations available for reservation on our websites, including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels and vacation rentals. Vacation rentals generally consist of, among others, properties categorized as single-unit and multi-unit villas, holiday homes, apartments and chalets and are generally self-catered (i.e., include a kitchen), directly bookable properties. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms, lower ADRs or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts), and therefore may also negatively impact our margins. For example, because a vacation rental is either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, vacation rental properties represent more limited booking opportunities than non-vacation rental properties, which generally have more units to rent per property. Our non-hotel 43 accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons, weather or other factors. If we increase our non-hotel accommodation business, these different market characteristics could negatively impact our profit margins; and, if these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our websites, our gross bookings growth rate and property growth rate will likely diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of non-hotel accommodations increases, the number of reservations per property will likely decrease. Another impact of the size of our international business is our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. Because we conduct a substantial majority of our business outside the United States and report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international business are translated from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation. For example, a strengthening of the Euro increases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars, while a weakening of the Euro decreases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars. Certain European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt have had difficulty refinancing their debt. Concern around devaluation or abandonment of the Euro common currency, or that sovereign default risk may be more widespread and could include the United States, has led to significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the U.S. Dollar and other currencies. We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results. However, such derivative instruments are short term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact our foreign currency denominated gross bookings, revenue or gross profit (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). For example, while revenue from our international operations grew year-over-year on a local currency basis by approximately 40% for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, as a result of the positive impact of currency exchange rates, revenue from our international operations as reported in U.S. Dollars grew 41.2% for the year ended December 31, 2013. The competition authorities of many governments have begun investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. For example, national competition authorities in France, Germany, Austria, Hungary, Sweden and Switzerland have opened investigations that focus on Booking.com's rate parity clause in its contracts with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions. All of these investigations are at a preliminary stage. We are currently unable to predict the outcome of these investigations or how our business may be affected. Possible outcomes include requiring Booking.com to remove its rate parity clause from its contracts with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions. We note that the German competition authority has required Hotel Reservation Service to remove its rate parity clause from its contracts with hotels, though this decision is currently subject to appeal. To the extent that regulatory authorities require changes to our business practices or to those currently common to the industry, our business, competitive position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Negative publicity regarding any such investigations could adversely affect our brand and therefore our market share and results of operations. Further, as our business grows, we may increasingly become the target of such investigations or be limited by anti-trust or competition laws. For example, our size and market share may negatively affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval of proposed acquisitions or our ability to expand into complementary businesses, any of which could adversely affect our ability to grow and compete. Domestic Trends . Competition in U.S. online travel remains intense and online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantages. In particular, the competition to provide "opaque" hotel reservation services to consumers, an area in which our priceline.com U.S. business has been a leader, has become more intense. For example, Expedia makes opaque hotel reservations available on its principal website under the name "Expedia Unpublished Rates" and has, we believe, supported this initiative with steeper discounts through lower margins. As with our opaque Name Your Own Price and Express Deals hotel reservation services, the name of the hotel is not disclosed until after booking the reservation. We believe these offerings, in particular "Expedia Unpublished Rates," have adversely impacted the market share and year-over-year room night reservations growth rate for our Name Your Own Price opaque hotel reservation service, which began to experience a decline in the third quarter of 2011. In addition, some hotels offer discounted room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social. If Expedia or others are successful in growing their opaque hotel reservation services, and/or "daily deal" websites are successful in garnering a sizable share of discounted hotel bookings, we may have less consumer demand for our opaque hotel reservation services over time, and we would face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. In an effort to compete more effectively against these new offerings, in 2012 we launched Express Deals , a semi-opaque price-disclosed hotel reservation service. While Express Deals has been a significant contributor to the improved performance of our opaque hotel reservation service, the offering may not ultimately be successful at recovering or growing U.S. hotel reservation service market share. As a result of this increased competition, our share of the discount hotel reservation market in the United States could further decrease. 44 While demand for online travel services in the United States continues to experience growth, we believe that the U.S. market share of third-party distributors is impacted in part by a concerted initiative by travel service providers to direct customers to their own websites in an effort to reduce distribution expenses and establish more direct control over their pricing. U.S. airlines have, at times, reduced capacity and increased fares. Decreases in capacity reduce the amount of airline tickets available, while significant increases in average airfares have adversely impacted leisure travel demand. Generally, reduced airline capacity and demand negatively impact our priceline.com air ticket reservation service, which in turn can have negative repercussions on our priceline.com hotel and rental car services. We expect continued variability in the breadth and depth of discounted airline tickets and rental car rates made available to us in the future, depending on market conditions from time to time. Seasonality . A meaningful amount of gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which reservations are booked. However, we generally do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs. As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation checkouts for the year for our North American and European businesses. In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2013 our first quarter year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income, and operating margins were favorably affected by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter in 2012. Conversely, those year-over-year growth rates were negatively impacted in our second quarter 2013. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short-term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable advertising expense. In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters. We experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters. Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results. Other Factors . We believe that our success will depend in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, higher oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, volcanic eruptions (such as the April 2010 eruption of a volcano in Iceland), travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities or travel related accidents, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and impair our ability to effectively implement all or some of the initiatives described above. For example, in late 2012 Hurricane Sandy disrupted travel in the northeastern United States. In early 2011, Japan was struck by a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency. In October 2011, severe flooding in Thailand, a key market for our Agoda.com business and the Asian business of Booking.com, negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market. In addition, Thailand has recently experienced disruptive civil unrest, which has negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market. In early 2010, Thailand also experienced civil unrest, which caused the temporary relocation of Agoda.com's Thailand-based operations. Future natural disasters or civil or political unrest could further disrupt our business and operations. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to grow gross profit and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain gross profit growth and profitability. 45 On May 21, 2013, we acquired KAYAK Software Corporation, a leading travel meta-search service, in a stock and cash transaction. The purchase value was $2.1 billion ($1.9 billion net of cash acquired). We paid $0.5 billion in cash, from cash on hand in the United States, and $1.6 billion in shares of our common stock and assumed stock options. See Note 3 and Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the acquisition. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our significant accounting policies and estimates are more fully described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting policies and estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. In applying those policies, our management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the items described below. Those estimates are based on, among other things, historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies that involve significant estimates and judgments of management include the following: Accounting for Travel Transaction Taxes. As discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are currently involved in approximately forty lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g. hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). In addition, over seventy-nine municipalities or counties, and at least thirteen states, have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes. Additional state and local jurisdictions are likely to assert that we are subject to travel transaction taxes and could seek to collect such taxes, retroactively and/or prospectively. Historically, we have not collected travel transaction taxes on the gross profit earned from merchant hotel transactions; however, in a handful of jurisdictions, we have been required recently by passage of a new statute or by court order, to start collecting and remitting certain taxes (local occupancy and/or sales or excise tax) imposed upon our margin and/or service fee, or in the case of Hawaii, on the full amount collected from the consumer. The ultimate resolution of these matters in all jurisdictions cannot be determined at this time. We have established an accrual (including estimated interest and penalties) for potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes for prior and current periods, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances. We accrue for legal contingencies where it is probable that a loss has occurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated; our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. A variety of factors could affect the amount of the liability (both past and future), which factors include, but are not limited to, the number of, and amount of gross profit represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement and changes in relevant statutes. The ultimate resolution of these matters may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Stock-Based Compensation. We record stock-based compensation expense for equity-based awards over the recipient's service period based upon the grant date fair value of the award. A number of our equity awards have performance targets (a performance "contingency") which, if satisfied, can increase the number of shares issued to the recipients at the end of the performance period or, in certain instances, if not satisfied, reduce the number of shares issued to the recipients, sometimes to zero, at the end of the performance period. The performance periods for our performance based equity awards are typically three years. We record stock-based compensation expense for these performance-based awards based upon our estimate of the probable outcome at the end of the performance period (i.e., the estimated performance against the performance targets). We periodically adjust the cumulative stock-based compensation recorded when the probable outcome for these performance-based awards is updated based upon changes in actual and forecasted operating results. Stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 includes charges amounting to $24.1 million , $0.9 million and $10.3 million, respectively, representing the cumulative impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome of unvested performance share units. Our actual performance against the performance targets could differ materially from our estimates. We record stock-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures. In determining the estimated forfeiture rates, we periodically review actual and projected forfeitures. To the extent that actual or projected 46 forfeiture rates differ from current estimates, such amounts are recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which the estimate is revised. Valuation of Goodwill . We have recorded goodwill related to businesses we have acquired. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment using appropriate valuation techniques. In the event that future circumstances indicate that any portion of our goodwill is impaired, an impairment charge would be recorded. A substantial portion of our goodwill relates to our acquisition of the KAYAK business in May 2013. If KAYAK is unsuccessful in profitably growing its global online travel brand or it experiences a significant reduction in advertising revenues due to factors such as a loss of continued access to travel services information provided by other OTAs and travel service providers or a reduction in advertising on its websites and mobile apps, we may incur an impairment charge related to this goodwill. The estimated fair values of our other reporting units substantially exceed their respective carrying values. Since the annual impairment test in September 2013, there have been no events or changes in circumstances to indicate a potential impairment. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles. We evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate that the carrying amounts of long-lived assets and intangibles may be impaired. The significant factors that are considered that could trigger an impairment review include changes in business strategies, market conditions, or the manner of use of an asset; under performance relative to historical or expected future operating results; and negative industry or economic trends. In evaluating an asset for possible impairment, management estimates that asset's future undiscounted cash flows to measure whether the carrying value of the asset is recoverable. If it is determined that the asset is not recoverable, we measure the impairment based upon the fair value of the asset compared to its carrying value. The fair value represents the projected discounted cash flows of the asset over its remaining life. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued accounting guidance which requires entities to provide additional information about items reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI") to net income. Changes in AOCI balances by component, both before tax and after tax, must be disclosed and significant items reclassified out of AOCI by component must be reported either on the face of the income statement or in a separate footnote to the financial statements. The accounting guidance is effective for public companies for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2012. See Note 14 for information on AOCI balances. There were no reclassifications out of AOCI to net income for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011. In July 2013, the FASB issued an accounting update which provides guidance on financial statement presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward or a tax credit carryforward exists in the same taxing jurisdiction. Per this guidance, an entity must present the unrecognized tax benefit as a reduction to a deferred tax asset, except when the carryforward is not available as of the reporting date under the governing tax law to settle taxes or the entity does not intend to use the deferred tax asset for this purpose. This amendment does not impact the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions or the disclosure reconciliation of gross unrecognized tax benefits. The update is effective for public companies beginning after December 15, 2013. Early adoption of the update is permitted and an entity may choose to apply this amendment retrospectively to each reporting period presented. The adoption of this accounting update is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 47 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2013 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2012 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking activity generated by our travel services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units purchased by our customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers and is widely used in the travel business. International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our Booking.com, Agoda.com, and rentalcars.com businesses and domestic gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our priceline.com business, in each case without regard to the travel destination or the location of the customer purchasing the travel. Gross bookings resulting from accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our international and U.S. operations for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2013 2012 Change International $ 33,300 $ 23,370 42.5 % Domestic 5,873 5,086 15.5 % Total $ 39,173 $ 28,456 37.7 % Gross bookings increased by 37.7% for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012 (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 38% ), principally due to growth of 36.9% in accommodation room night reservations and growth of 37.0% in rental car day reservations. The 42.5% increase in international gross bookings (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 42% ) was primarily attributable to growth in hotel and accommodation room night reservations for our Booking.com and Agoda.com businesses, as well as growth in rental car day reservations for our rentalcars.com business. Domestic gross bookings increased by 15.5% for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to an increase in priceline.com's retail airline ticket service, Express Deals hotel reservation service, and retail rental car service, partially offset by a decline in our Name Your Own Price opaque hotel reservation service (driven in part by customer shift to Express Deals ). Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2013 2012 Change Agency $ 32,672 $ 23,284 40.3 % Merchant 6,501 5,172 25.7 % Total $ 39,173 $ 28,456 37.7 % Agency gross bookings increased 40.3% for the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily due to growth in Booking.com accommodation room night reservations, as well as growth in priceline.com's retail airline ticket and rental car services. Merchant gross bookings increased 25.7% for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to an increase in the sale of Agoda.com accommodation room night reservations, priceline.com Express Deals hotel room night reservations, rentalcars.com rental car day reservations and Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservations, partially offset by a decline in our Name Your Own Price opaque hotel reservation service. 48 Units sold for accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2013 2012 Change Room Nights 270.5 197.5 36.9 % Rental Car Days 43.9 32.0 37.0 % Airline Tickets 7.0 6.4 9.1 % Accommodation room night reservations increased by 36.9% for the year ended December 31, 2013, over the same period in 2012, principally due to an increase in Booking.com, Agoda.com and priceline.com Express Deals and retail accommodation room night reservations, partially offset by a decline in our Name Your Own Price opaque hotel room night reservations in part due to a concerted effort to emphasize Express Deals over Name Your Own Price in our offline advertising campaigns. Booking.com, our most significant brand, includes over 425,000 properties on its website as compared to about 275,000 properties last year (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate and our core European market. Our priceline.com agency hotel reservations benefited from the integration of the growing number of properties on the Booking.com extranet. Rental car day reservations increased by 37.0% for the year ended December 31, 2013, over the same period in 2012, due to an increase in rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and priceline.com. Airline ticket reservations increased by 9.1% for the year ended December 31, 2013, over the same period in 2012, due to an increase in Name Your Own Price and price-disclosed airline ticket reservations. Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, GDS reservation booking fees related to certain travel services and customer processing fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Substantially all of the revenue for Booking.com is agency revenue comprised of travel commissions. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer's credit card for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of Name Your Own Price hotel room night, rental car and airline ticket reservations and vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by travel service providers in connection with (a) the accommodation room reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service at Agoda.com and priceline.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at rentalcars.com and merchant Express Deals hotel service at priceline.com, which allows customers to see the price of the reservation prior to purchase but not the identity of the travel service provider; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of Name Your Own Price hotel room night, rental car and airline ticket reservations and merchant price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from KAYAK for sending referrals to travel service providers and OTAs as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile applications. 49 Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2013 2012 Change Agency Revenues $ 4,410,689 $ 3,142,815 40.3 % Merchant Revenues 2,211,474 2,104,752 5.1 % Advertising and Other Revenues 171,143 13,389 1,178.2 % Total Revenues $ 6,793,306 $ 5,260,956 29.1 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased 40.3% compared to the same period in 2012, primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com. Our priceline.com agency revenues benefited from growth in our retail rental car business as well as the integration on the priceline.com website of the growing number of properties on the Booking.com extranet. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased 5.1% compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to increases in our Agoda.com hotel reservation service, rentalcars.com rental car reservation service and priceline.com Express Deals hotel reservation and Name Your Own Price air services, partially offset by a decline in Name Your Own Price opaque hotel revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012. Merchant revenue growth over the prior year period was substantially lower than merchant gross bookings growth because our merchant revenues are disproportionately affected by our Name Your Own Price service. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding supplier cost recorded in cost of revenues, and represented a smaller percentage, year-over-year, of total revenues compared to our faster-growing Agoda.com, rentalcars.com and priceline.com Express Deals services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of supplier cost. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2013 consisted primarily of advertising revenues. Advertising revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes $154.5 million as a result of the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013, and excludes intercompany revenues earned by KAYAK from other Priceline Group brands. Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2013 2012 Change Cost of Revenues $ 1,077,420 $ 1,177,275 (8.5 )% Cost of Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2013, cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of Name Your Own Price rental cars from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes; (3) the cost of Name Your Own Price airline tickets, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets; (4) the cost of vacation packages from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes; and (5) the cost related to accruals for travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 decreased by 8.5% , primarily due to a decrease in our Name Your Own Price hotel reservation service, partially offset by increases in our other Name Your Own Price services and higher accruals for travel transaction taxes. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia, partially offset by a reduction in our accrual related to travel transaction taxes of $6.3 million recorded in the fourth 50 quarter of 2013, principally related to a favorable agreement and ruling in the District of Columbia. Cost of revenue for the year ended December, 2012 includes an accrual of approximately $21 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and in the District of Columbia. Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Agency revenues principally consist of travel commissions on accommodation reservations. Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2013 2012 Change Gross Profit $ 5,715,886 $ 4,083,681 40.0 % Gross Margin 84.1 % 77.6 % Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased by 40.0% compared to the same period in 2012, primarily as a result of increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, because our revenues are disproportionately affected by our Name Your Own Price service. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the year ended December 31, 2013 represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the same period in 2012. Our retail and semi-opaque services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of supplier cost have been growing faster than our Name Your Own Price services. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $5.02 billion of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013, which compares to $3.56 billion for the same period in 2012. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 40% for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012. Gross profit attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by approximately 32.5% for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 was positively impacted by the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 was negatively impacted by an accrual recorded in the first quarter of 2013 of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia, partially offset by a credit in the fourth quarter of 2013 of $6.3 million , principally related to a favorable agreement and ruling in the District of Columbia. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2012 was negatively impacted by an accrual of approximately $21 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and in the District of Columbia. Operating Expenses Advertising Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2013 2012 Change Online Advertising $ 1,798,645 $ 1,273,637 41.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 31.5 % 31.2 % Offline Advertising $ 127,459 $ 35,492 259.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.2 % 0.9 % Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; (4) banner, pop-up and other Internet advertisements; and (5) e-mail campaigns. For the year ended December 31, 2013, online advertising expenses increased 41.2% over the same period in 2012, primarily to generate increased gross bookings. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit increased for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012 due to (1) lower ROIs for our online advertising, (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group and (3) channel mix within certain of our brands. Our online advertising ROIs were down year-over-year for the year ended December 31, 2013 . Furthermore, our international brands are generally growing 51 faster than our U.S. brands, and typically spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. Finally, certain of our brands are obtaining an increasing share of traffic through paid online advertising channels. The inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013 had a favorable impact on online advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 because KAYAK spends a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other brands, and our consolidated results exclude intercompany advertising by our brands on KAYAK. This favorable impact will benefit year-over-year comparisons until the anniversary of the acquisition on May 21, 2014. Offline advertising expenses are related to our television, print and radio advertising for our Booking.com, priceline.com and KAYAK businesses. For the year ended December 31, 2013, offline advertising increased 259.1% compared to the same period in 2012, due mainly to Booking.com launching in the United States its first offline advertising campaign in 2013, as well as the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Booking.com also launched an offline advertising campaign in Australia in the fourth quarter of 2013. Booking.com recently launched offline advertising campaigns in Canada and the United Kingdom and may expand its offline advertising into other markets during 2014. Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2013 2012 Change Sales and Marketing $ 235,817 $ 195,934 20.4 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.1 % 4.8 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables; and (4) provisions for credit card chargebacks. For the year ended December 31, 2013, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2012, primarily due to increased gross booking volumes as well as expenses related to increased content translations and the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of gross profit are typically higher for our merchant business, which incurs credit card processing fees. Our merchant business grew more slowly than our agency business, and as a result, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 declined compared to the same period in 2012. In addition, our Agoda.com business achieved a year-over-year decline in its sales and marketing expense per transaction. Personnel Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2013 2012 Change Personnel $ 698,692 $ 466,828 49.7 % % of Total Gross Profit 12.2 % 11.4 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes and employee health benefits. For the year ended December 31, 2013, personnel expenses increased over the same period in 2012, due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses and the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $140.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to $71.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Stock-based compensation expense of $30.9 million for KAYAK unvested assumed employee stock options and payroll taxes of $3.4 million for KAYAK stock option exercises were recorded during the year ended December 31, 2013. Stock-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 also includes charges amounting to $24.1 million and $0.9 million , respectively, representing the cumulative impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period for outstanding unvested performance share units. 52 In July 2012 and December 2013, the Dutch Government enacted certain amendments to Dutch tax law including a one-time irrevocable levy on an employer applied to employee earnings, equal to 16% of an employee's earnings in excess of 150,000 Euros. This levy resulted in additional payroll taxes recorded in personnel expense of approximately $12 million (approximately $9 million after tax) in the fourth quarter of 2013 and approximately $14 million (approximately $10 million after tax) principally recorded in the third quarter of 2012. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2013 2012 Change General and Administrative $ 252,994 $ 173,171 46.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.4 % 4.2 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) personnel related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses; (2) occupancy expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2013 over the same period in 2012, primarily due to higher recruiting, training and travel expenses related to increased headcount in all our businesses, higher occupancy and office expenses related to the expansion of our international businesses, and the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 included approximately $8.5 million of professional fees related to the acquisition of KAYAK. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012 includes approximately $3 million of professional fees related to the acquisition of KAYAK and a charge of approximately $3 million related to certain leased space that was vacated in connection with the relocation of Booking.com's headquarters to a new location in Amsterdam. Information Technology Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2013 2012 Change Information Technology $ 71,890 $ 43,685 64.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.3 % 1.1 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) outsourced data center costs; (2) system maintenance and software license fees; (3) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the increase in information technology expenses compared to the same period in 2012 was due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations and the inclusion of KAYAK since its acquisition on May 21, 2013. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2013 2012 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 117,975 $ 65,141 81.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.1 % 1.6 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office equipment and furniture and fixtures. For the year ended December 31, 2013, depreciation and amortization expense increased from the same period in 2012 due primarily to intangible amortization from the KAYAK acquisition for $33.4 million , and increased depreciation expense due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com brand. 53 Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2013 2012 Change Interest Income $ 4,167 $ 3,860 8.0 % Interest Expense (83,289 ) (62,064 ) 34.2 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (36,755 ) (9,720 ) 278.1 % Total $ (115,877 ) $ (67,924 ) 70.6 % For the year ended December 31, 2013, interest income on cash and marketable securities increased over the same period in 2012, primarily due to an increase in the average invested balance partially offset by lower yields. Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to an increase in the average outstanding debt resulting from the May 2013 issuance of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes and the March 2012 issuance of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared with foreign exchange gains of $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in losses of $10.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to foreign exchange transaction losses of $10.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company delivered cash of $414.6 million to repay the aggregate principal amount and issued 972,235 shares of its common stock in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount associated with the 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 2015 that were converted prior to maturity. The conversion of our convertible debt prior to maturity resulted in a non-cash loss of $26.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 , and is recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2013 2012 Change Income Tax Expense $ 403,739 $ 337,832 19.5 % Our effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were 17.6% and 19.2% , respectively. Our effective tax rate differs from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%, principally due to lower tax rates outside the United States, partially offset by state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. Our effective tax rates were lower for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, due to growth in our international businesses. According to Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying "innovative" activities is taxed at a rate of 5% ("Innovation Box Tax") rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities in February 2011 confirming that a portion of its earnings is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment. The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid through December 31, 2017. Until our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, most of our U.S. income will not be subject to a cash tax liability, other than federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our non-U.S. income other than in countries where we have operating loss carryforwards. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income at higher rates than the U.S. business over the long term and, therefore, it is our 54 expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international businesses generate an increasing share of our pre-tax income. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2013 2012 Change Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests $ 135 $ 4,471 (97.0 )% Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest is lower for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, mainly due to a reduction in redeemable noncontrolling interests. We purchased the remaining outstanding shares underlying the redeemable noncontrolling interests in April 2013. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2012 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2011 Operating and Statistical Metrics Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our international and domestic operations for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2012 2011 Change International $ 23,370 $ 16,909 38.2 % Domestic 5,086 4,748 7.1 % Total $ 28,456 $ 21,658 31.4 % Gross bookings increased by 31.4% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011 (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 37%), principally due to 39.5% growth in hotel room night reservations, partly offset by foreign currency impact and slower growth rates for our non-hotel businesses. The 38.2% increase in international gross bookings for the year ended December 31, 2012 (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 46%) was primarily attributable to growth in hotel room night reservations for our Booking.com and Agoda.com businesses, as well as growth in rental car reservations for our rentalcars.com business. Domestic gross bookings increased by 7.1% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, primarily due to an increase in price-disclosed airline ticket reservations and associated higher airfares, as well as an increase in price-disclosed hotel room night reservations and associated higher average daily rates ("ADRs"). Retail rental car day reservations for our priceline.com business also increased in the year ended December 31, 2012. Our Name Your Own Price hotel, air, and rental car businesses experienced a decline in reservations in the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011. Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2012 2011 Change Agency $ 23,284 $ 17,610 32.2 % Merchant 5,172 4,048 27.8 % Total $ 28,456 $ 21,658 31.4 % 55 Agency gross bookings increased 32.2% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, due primarily to growth in Booking.com hotel room night reservations. Our U.S. priceline.com business also experienced growth in reservations of agency price-disclosed hotel room nights, airline tickets, and rental car days. Merchant gross bookings increased 27.8% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, primarily due to an increase in Agoda.com hotel room night reservations and rentalcars.com rental car day reservations. Higher ADRs drove growth in merchant gross bookings related to our priceline.com price-disclosed hotel business, while our Name Your Own Price hotel business experienced a decline in hotel room night reservations for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the same period in 2011, due to competitive pressures. Gross bookings related to Name Your Own Price rental car reservations and airline ticket reservations also experienced a decline for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011. Units sold for hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2012 2011 Change Hotel Room Nights 197.5 141.6 39.5 % Rental Car Days 32.0 23.8 34.9 % Airline Tickets 6.4 6.2 2.7 % Hotel room night reservations increased by 39.5% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, principally due to an increase in Booking.com, Agoda.com and priceline.com price-disclosed hotel room night reservations, partially offset by a decline in Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations as a result of increased domestic competition in the opaque hotel room reservation market, including from Expedia's "Expedia Unpublished Rates" service. Booking.com, our most significant brand, includes over 275,000 properties on its website as of February 25, 2013 (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com added properties in 2012 in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets, which are growing faster than our overall growth rate and our core European market. Our U.S. priceline.com agency hotel reservations benefited from the integration of properties from the Booking.com extranet on the priceline.com website. Rental car day reservations increased by 34.9% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, due primarily to an increase in rental car day reservations for our rentalcars.com business and priceline.com price-disclosed business, partially offset by a decline in Name Your Own Price rental car day reservations due to limited availability of discounted supply as well as lower retail pricing. Airline ticket reservations increased by 2.7% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, due to an increase in price-disclosed airline ticket reservations partially offset by a decrease in Name Your Own Price ticket reservations for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, due to limited availability of discounted supply. Revenues Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Agency Revenues $ 3,142,815 $ 2,339,253 34.4 % Merchant Revenues 2,104,752 2,004,432 5.0 % Advertising and Other Revenues 13,389 11,925 12.3 % Total Revenues $ 5,260,956 $ 4,355,610 20.8 % 56 Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased 34.4% compared to the same period in 2011, primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com. Our U.S. agency revenues benefited from the integration of properties from the Booking.com extranet on the priceline.com website as well as growth in our priceline.com retail rental car business. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased 5.0% compared to the same period in 2011, primarily due to increases in our Agoda.com hotel reservation business, rentalcars.com rental car business and priceline.com merchant price-disclosed hotel reservation business, partially offset by a decline in our Name Your Own Price businesses. Merchant revenue growth over the prior year period was substantially lower than merchant gross bookings growth because our merchant revenues are disproportionately affected by our Name Your Own Price business. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and represented a smaller percentage, year-over-year, of total revenues compared to our faster-growing Agoda.com and rentalcars.com businesses, which are recorded in revenue "net" of provider cost. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues consisted primarily of advertising revenues. Advertising and other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased compared to the same period in 2011. Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Cost of Revenues $ 1,177,275 $ 1,275,730 (7.7 )% Cost of Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2012, cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of Name Your Own Price rental cars from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes; and (3) the cost of Name Your Own Price airline tickets, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 decreased by 7.7%, compared to the same period in 2011, primarily due to a decrease in our Name Your Own Price businesses. Merchant price-disclosed hotel room and rental car reservations are recorded in merchant revenues net of the amounts paid to travel service providers, and therefore, there is no associated cost of revenues for merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues. Cost of revenues as a percentage of merchant revenues decreased for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, a trend we expect to continue, primarily due to the increase in Agoda.com and rentalcars.com revenues, all of which are recorded in revenue "net" of provider cost. Cost of revenues also includes approximately $21 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for an accrual recorded for the year ended December 31, 2012 related to travel transaction taxes in the State of Hawaii and in the District of Columbia. Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Gross Profit $ 4,083,681 $ 3,079,880 32.6 % Gross Margin 77.6 % 70.7 % 57 Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased by 32.6% compared to the same period in 2011, primarily as a result of increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, because our revenues are disproportionately affected by our Name Your Own Price business. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in 2012 represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in 2011. Our retail price-disclosed businesses, which are recorded in revenue "net" of provider cost, grew faster than our Name Your Own Price businesses. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $3.6 billion of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2012, which compares to $2.6 billion for the same period in 2011. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 48% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011. Gross profit attributable to our priceline.com U.S. business increased by approximately 2% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011. Gross profit for our priceline.com U.S. business was negatively impacted by an accrual of approximately $21 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded for the year ended December 31, 2012 related to legal rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia pertaining to travel transaction taxes. Operating Expenses Advertising Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Online Advertising $ 1,273,637 $ 919,214 38.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 31.2 % 29.8 % Offline Advertising $ 35,492 $ 35,470 0.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 0.9 % 1.2 % Online advertising expenses primarily consisted of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; (4) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (5) email campaigns. For the year ended December 31, 2012, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2011, primarily to support increased hotel room night reservations for Booking.com and Agoda.com, increased rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and increased travel reservations for priceline.com. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit increased for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011. The increase is driven by (1) brand mix within the Priceline Group, (2) the channel mix within our brands and (3) recently lower returns on investment ("ROIs") from our online advertising. Our international brands grew faster than our priceline.com U.S. brand, and spent a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. Furthermore, our brands generally obtained an increasing share of traffic through paid online advertising channels. Finally, our online advertising ROIs were down year-over-year. Offline advertising expenses are related to our television, print and radio advertising for our priceline.com U.S. business. For the year ended December 31, 2012, offline advertising was flat compared to the same period in 2011. Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Sales and Marketing $ 195,934 $ 162,690 20.4 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.8 % 5.3 % Sales and marketing expenses consisted primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables. For the year ended December 31, 2012, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2011, primarily due to increased gross booking volumes as well as expenses related to increased content 58 translations. The increase was partially offset by reduced credit card processing fees resulting from the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Financial Reform and Consumer Protection Act (which amendment caps the interchange fee for debit card transactions and went into effect on October 1, 2011). Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of gross profit are typically higher for our merchant business which incurs credit card processing fees. Our merchant business grew more slowly than our agency business, and as a result, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross profit for year ended December 31, 2012, declined compared to the same period in 2011. Personnel Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Personnel $ 466,828 $ 352,295 32.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 11.4 % 11.4 % Personnel expenses consisted of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes and employee health benefits. For the year ended December 31, 2012, personnel expenses increased over the same period in 2011, due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our international businesses and the one-time wage tax levy of approximately $14 million described below. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $71.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to $65.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 included charges amounting to $0.9 million and $10.3 million, respectively, representing the cumulative impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period for certain outstanding unvested performance share units. In July 2012, the Dutch Government enacted certain amendments to Dutch tax law including, among other things, a one-time irrevocable levy on an employer equal to 16% of an employee's 2012 earnings in excess of 150,000 Euros. The levy was remitted to the tax authorities in 2013. This levy resulted in additional payroll taxes recorded in personnel expense of approximately $14 million (approximately $10 million after tax). Of the total additional payroll taxes, approximately $13 million were recorded in the third quarter of 2012. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change General and Administrative $ 173,171 $ 123,652 40.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.2 % 4.0 % General and administrative expenses consisted primarily of: (1) personnel related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses; (2) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses; and (3) occupancy expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2012 over the same period in 2011, primarily due to expansion of our office capacity worldwide to support continued growth in our international operations. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012 includes approximately $3 million of professional fees related to the acquisition of KAYAK and a charge of approximately $3 million related to certain leased space that was vacated in connection with the relocation of Booking.com's headquarters to a new location in Amsterdam. Additionally, we have had higher recruiting, training and travel expenses related to increased headcount in all of our businesses. 59 Information Technology Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Information Technology $ 43,685 $ 33,813 29.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.1 % 1.1 % Information technology expenses consisted primarily of: (1) outsourced data center costs relating to our U.S. and international data centers; (2) system maintenance and software license fees; (3) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the increase in information technology expenses compared to the same period in 2011 was due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 65,141 $ 53,824 21.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.6 % 1.7 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consisted of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) amortization of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office equipment and furniture and fixtures. For the year ended December 31, 2012, depreciation expense increased from the same period in 2011 due principally to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com brand. Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Interest Income $ 3,860 $ 8,119 (52.5 )% Interest Expense (62,064 ) (31,721 ) 95.7 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (9,720 ) (7,526 ) 29.2 % Total $ (67,924 ) $ (31,128 ) 118.2 % For the year ended December 31, 2012, interest income on cash and marketable securities decreased over the same period in 2011, primarily due to lower yields partially offset by an increase in the average balance invested. Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the same period in 2011, primarily due to an increase in the average outstanding debt resulting from the March 2012 issuance of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes, and fees on the undrawn $1.0 billion revolving credit facility entered into in October 2011. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $0.7 million and $4.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and were recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in losses of $10.5 million and $11.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and were recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we began classifying certain foreign currency processing fees as an offset to revenue earned from the third party that processes the 60 payments for merchant hotel transactions. Such processing fees recorded to "Foreign currency transactions and other" for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 amounted to approximately $5.0 million. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Income Tax Expense $ 337,832 $ 308,663 9.5 % Our effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were 19.2% and 22.6% , respectively. The decrease in our effective tax rate was primarily due to an increase in the Innovation Box Tax benefit in 2012. Our effective tax rate differed from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%, principally due to lower foreign tax rates, partially offset by state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. The Internal Revenue Service initiated an audit of our 2009 and 2010 federal income tax returns for the first time in the third quarter of 2011. The audit was concluded in June 2012 with no impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows (see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the audit). Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 4,471 2,760 62.0 % The net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011 increased due mainly to improved year-over-year operating performance for the rentalcars.com business, partially offset by a reduction in redeemable noncontrolling interests from 19.0% in April 2011 to 12.7% in April 2012. 61 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2013 , we had $6.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Approximately $4.9 billion of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held by our international subsidiaries and are denominated primarily in Euros and, to a lesser extent, in British Pound Sterling and other currencies. We currently intend to permanently reinvest this cash in our international operations. If we repatriate this cash to the United States, we would utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and beyond that amount incur additional tax payments in the United States. Cash equivalents and short-term investments are primarily comprised of foreign and U.S. government securities and bank deposits. In May 2013, we issued in a private placement $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2020, with an interest rate of 0.35%. We used approximately $144.6 million of the net proceeds to repurchase outstanding common stock in privately negotiated, off-market transactions concurrent with the issuance of the convertible notes. Interest on the notes is payable in June and December of each year. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these notes. In March 2012, we issued in a private placement $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2018, with an interest rate of 1.0%. We used approximately $166.2 million of the net proceeds to repurchase outstanding common stock in privately negotiated, off-market transactions concurrent with the issuance of the convertible notes. Interest on the notes is payable in March and September of each year. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these notes. In October 2011, we entered into a $1.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.00% to 1.50%; or (ii) the greatest of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association's prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50%. Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.10% to 0.25%. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $100.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2013, there were no borrowings under the facility, and approximately $2.2 million of letters of credit were issued under the facility. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company purchased 916,271 shares of its common stock for a total value of $804.7 million, which includes the purchase of 182,538 shares made concurrent with the issuance of the convertible notes in May 2013 in privately negotiated, off-market transactions. As of December 31, 2013, we have a remaining aggregate amount of $654.5 million authorized by our Board of Directors to purchase our common stock. We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital, and other factors. In April 2013, we purchased the remaining outstanding shares underlying redeemable noncontrolling interests in TravelJigsaw Holdings Limited for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $192.5 million. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. On May 21, 2013, we acquired KAYAK Software Corporation, a leading travel meta-search service, in a stock and cash transaction. The purchase value was $2.1 billion ($1.9 billion net of cash acquired). We paid $0.5 billion in cash, from cash on hand in the United States, and $1.6 billion in shares of our common stock and assumed stock options. See Note 3 and Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the acquisition. During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company delivered cash of $414.6 million to repay the aggregate principal amount and issued 972,235 shares of its common stock in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount associated with the 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 2015 that were converted prior to maturity. As of February 11, 2014, the Company had received conversion notices that will be settled in the first quarter of 2014 for an aggregate principal amount of approximately $58 million associated with the 2015 Notes, and, as a result, during the first quarter of 2014, the Company will deliver cash of approximately $58 million to satisfy the aggregate principal amount for these conversion notices. 62 Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from our customers and then we pay most of our suppliers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant swings in deferred merchant bookings and supplier payables depending on the absolute level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2013, was $ 2.3 billion , resulting from net income of $1.9 billion , a favorable impact of non-cash items not affecting cash flows of $ 355.7 million and net favorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $ 52.9 million . The changes in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2013, were primarily related to a $ 182.2 million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, partially offset by a $ 111.6 million increase in accounts receivable. The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were primarily associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount, a non-cash loss on convertible notes converted prior to maturity, and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2012, was $1.8 billion, resulting from net income of $1.4 billion, a favorable impact of non-cash items not affecting cash flows of $217.9 million and net favorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $143.8 million. The changes in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2012, were primarily related to a $256.0 million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, partially offset by a $105.3 million increase in accounts receivable. The increase in these working capital balances were primarily related to increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were primarily associated with deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, and amortization of debt discount. Net cash used in investing activities was $ 2.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2013 were affected by net purchases of investments of $ 1.7 billion , payments of $ 331.9 million for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, a change in restricted cash of $ 2.8 million , and net cash payments of $ 78.6 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts. Net cash used in investing activities was $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2012. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 were affected by net purchases of investments of $1.6 billion, payments of $33.9 million for acquisitions, and a change in restricted cash of $2.8 million, partially offset by net cash proceeds of $82.1 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts. Cash invested in purchase of property and equipment was $ 84.4 million and $55.2 million in the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The increase in 2013 was related to additional data center capacity and new offices to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com brand. Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $ 403.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. The cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2013 was primarily related to payments for treasury stock purchases of $ 883.5 million , $192.5 million spent to purchase the remaining shares underlying noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com, $414.6 million to satisfy the aggregate principal amount due upon the early conversion of senior notes, and $1.0 million of debt issuance costs, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of convertible senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion, $ 91.6 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options, and $ 17.7 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $668.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 was primarily related to proceeds from the issuance of convertible senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion, $2.7 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options, and $5.2 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $257.0 million, $61.1 million spent to purchase a portion of the shares underlying noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com, and $20.9 million of debt issuance costs. Contingencies A number of jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against online travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). In addition, a number of U.S. states, counties and municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes. To date, the majority of taxing jurisdictions in which we facilitate the making of travel reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on our travel services. With respect to jurisdictions that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect taxes from us only on a prospective basis. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and proceedings, and Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations " in this Annual Report. 63 As a result of this litigation and other attempts by jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual for the probable cost of resolving issues related to travel transaction taxes in the amount of approximately $55 million at December 31, 2013 and approximately $56 million at December 31, 2012 (which includes, among other things, amounts related to the litigation in the State of Hawaii, District of Columbia, San Antonio and Chicago). Our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded. An estimate for a reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount accrued cannot be reasonably made. We believe that even if we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash, it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. The following table represents our material contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2013 (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements): Payments due by Period (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More than 5 Years Operating lease obligations $ 320,026 $ 49,691 $ 92,369 $ 68,431 $ 109,535 Convertible debt (1) 2,228,216 177,065 27,000 1,019,056 1,005,095 Revolving credit facility (2) 5,477 2,235 3,242 Total (3) $ 2,553,719 $ 228,991 $ 122,611 $ 1,087,487 $ 1,114,630 _____________________________ (1) Convertible debt represents the aggregate principal amount of the Notes outstanding as of December 31, 2013 and interest of $68 million. Convertible debt does not reflect the market value in excess of the outstanding principal amount because we can settle the conversion premium amount in cash or shares of common stock at our option. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) Represents fees on uncommitted funds and outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2013. (3) We reported "Other long-term liabilities" of $76 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2013, of which approximately $55 million related to our accrual for potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes (refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and approximately $15 million related to unrecognized tax benefits (refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). A variety of factors could affect the timing of payments for these liabilities. We believe that these matters will likely not be resolved in the next twelve months and accordingly we have classified the estimated liability as "non-current" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. We have excluded "Other long-term liabilities" in the amount of $76 million from the contractual obligations table because we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of such payments. Since the contingent conversion threshold for the 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 was exceeded as of December 31, 2013, these notes are convertible at the option of the holders. If the holders elect to convert, we will be required to pay the aggregate principal amount in cash and we will deliver cash or shares of common stock, at our option, for the conversion value in excess of the aggregate principal amount. We would likely fund our conversion obligations with cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, if during that period or thereafter, we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plan, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, revenue growth or sustained profitability may not be realized, and future borrowings or equity sales may not be available in amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies or repay our indebtedness. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. As of December 31, 2013, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 64