Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements " at the end of this Item 2. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, " this discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in " Risk Factors " and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. The information on our websites is not a part of this Quarterly Report and is not incorporated herein by reference. We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Overview Our mission is to help people experience the world. We seek to achieve our mission by providing consumers, travel service providers and restaurants with worldwide leadership in online reservation and related services. We operate six primary, independently managed brands: Booking.com - the worlds leading brand for booking online accommodation reservations, based on room nights booked. priceline.com - a leading hotel, rental car, airline ticket and vacation package reservation service in the United States. KAYAK - a leading meta-search service allowing consumers to easily search and compare travel itineraries and prices, including airline ticket, accommodation and rental car reservation information. agoda.com - a leading accommodation reservation service catering primarily to consumers in the Asia-Pacific region. Rentalcars.com - a leading worldwide rental car reservation service. OpenTable - a leading provider of restaurant reservation and information services to consumers and restaurant reservation management services to restaurants. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands collectively as "The Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda.com and Rentalcars.com and the international businesses of KAYAK and OpenTable (in each case regardless of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while using our services or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant). During the year ended December 31, 2016 , our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 88% of our consolidated gross profit. A significant majority of our gross profit is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations. We derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services on an agency basis; Transaction gross profit on a merchant basis and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car, airline ticket and vacation package reservation services; Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; Reservation revenues paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation services, subscription fees for restaurant reservation management services provided by OpenTable and other OpenTable revenues; and Damage excess waiver fees, travel insurance fees and global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees, in each case related to certain of our travel services. 30 Our priceline.com brand offers merchant Name Your Own Price opaque travel services, which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue. All of our other services are generally recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no significant associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between Name Your Own Price travel services and other services. Gross profit reflects the commission or net margin earned for all of our services. Consequently, gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business because, in contrast to our revenues, it is not affected by the different methods of recording revenue and cost of revenue between our Name Your Own Price travel reservation services and our other services. Trends Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices and the growth of travel overall, including in higher growth emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America. We also believe this growth is the result of the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to add accommodations to our travel reservation services, increase and improve content, build distribution and improve the consumer experience on our websites and mobile apps, as well as consistently and effectively marketing our brands through performance and brand advertising efforts. These year-over-year growth rates have generally decelerated. Given the size of our accommodation reservation business, we expect that our year-over-year growth rates will generally continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate and there may be periods of acceleration from time to time. For the year ended December 31, 2016 , our accommodation room night reservation growth was 29%, as compared to 25% in 2015, 28% in 2014, 37% in 2013 and 40% in 2012. Our international business represents the substantial majority of our financial results, and we expect our operating results and other financial metrics to continue to be largely driven by international performance. The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, internet use and e-commerce activity of international consumers have trailed that of consumers in the United States. However, international consumers are increasingly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. We expect that over the long term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. Our growth has primarily been generated by our worldwide accommodation reservation service brand, Booking.com, which is our most significant brand, and has been due, in part, to the availability of a large and growing number of directly bookable properties through Booking.com. Booking.com included over 1,191,000 properties on its website as of March 31, 2017 , which included over 613,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website), and compares to over 887,000 properties (including over 409,000 vacation rental properties) as of March 31, 2016 . We intend to continue to invest in adding accommodations available for reservation on our websites, including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels and vacation rentals. Vacation rentals generally consist of, among others, properties categorized as single-unit and multi-unit villas, homes, apartments, "aparthotels" (which are apartments with a front desk and cleaning service) and chalets and are generally self-catered (i.e., include a kitchen), directly bookable properties. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts). Because a vacation rental is typically either a single home or unit or a small collection of independent units, vacation rental accommodations represent more limited booking opportunities than non-vacation rental properties, which generally have more units to rent per property. Our vacation rental accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons, weather or other factors. Our vacation rental accommodation business may also experience lower profit margins due to certain additional costs related to offering these accommodations on our websites. As we increase our vacation rental accommodation business, these different characteristics could negatively impact our profit margins; and, to the extent these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our websites, we expect that our gross bookings growth rate and property growth rate will continue to diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of vacation rental properties increases, we expect that the number of reservations per property will likely continue to decrease. We believe that continuing to expand the number and variety of accommodations available through our services, in particular Booking.com, will help us to continue to grow our accommodation reservation business. 31 As part of our strategy to increase the number and variety of accommodations available on Booking.com, Booking.com is increasingly processing transactions on a merchant basis where it facilitates payments on behalf of customers. This allows Booking.com to process transactions for properties that do not accept credit cards and to increase its ability to offer flexible transaction terms to consumers, such as the form and timing of payment. Although we will incur additional payment processing costs and chargebacks related to these transactions, which are recorded as sales and marketing expenses in our statement of operations and which will negatively impact our operating margins, we believe that adding these types of properties and service offerings will benefit our customers and our gross bookings, room night and earnings growth rates. Concerns persist about the outlook for the global economy in general, including uncertainty in the European Union and China. Perceived or actual adverse economic conditions, including slow, slowing or negative economic growth, unemployment rates and weakening currencies and concerns over government responses such as higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. Further, uncertainty regarding the future of the European Union following the United Kingdoms vote to leave ("Brexit"), as well as concerns regarding certain E.U. members with sovereign debt default risks could also negatively affect consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates, increased cancellation rates and weaker trends in hotel average daily rates ("ADRs") across many regions of the world, particularly in those countries that appear to be most affected by economic uncertainties, which we believe are due at least in part to macro-economic conditions and concerns. For more detail, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance." These and other macro-economic uncertainties, such as sovereign default risk becoming more widespread, oil price volatility, geopolitical tensions and differing central bank monetary policies, have led to significant volatility in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and other currencies. Significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, stock markets and oil prices can also impact consumer travel behavior. As noted earlier, our international business represents a substantial majority of our financial results. Therefore, because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international businesses are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. Throughout 2015, the U.S. Dollar strengthened significantly year-over-year relative to substantially all currencies in which we transact, most notably the Euro, Brazilian Real, British Pound Sterling, Russian Ruble and Australian Dollar. In 2016, the U.S. Dollar continued to be stronger year-over-year relative to the British Pound Sterling, Russian Ruble and many other major currencies in which we transact. Since the "Brexit" referendum in the United Kingdom in June 2016, the U.S. Dollar has strengthened significantly against the British Pound Sterling. As a result of these currency exchange rate changes, our foreign currency denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses and net income have been negatively impacted as expressed in U.S. Dollars in 2016 and for the three months ended March 31, 2017, although to a much lesser extent than in 2015. For example, gross profit from our international operations grew 17.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , but, without the negative impact of changes in currency exchange rates, grew year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately 19% . Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins are not significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. The aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated long-term debt, and accrued interest thereon, provide a natural hedge against the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on the net assets of certain of our Euro functional currency subsidiaries (see Note 7 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). For more information, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates." We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on the translation of our consolidated operating results into U.S. Dollars. However, such derivative instruments are short-term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact growth rates for our gross bookings, revenues or gross profit (see Note 5 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). We compete globally with both online and traditional providers of travel and restaurant reservation and related services. The markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple, Alibaba, Tencent, Amazon and Facebook, have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do, and they may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to enable them to compete more effectively with us. For example, Google has entered various aspects of the online travel market, including by establishing a flight meta-search product ("Google Flights") and a hotel meta-search business ("Hotel Ads") that are growing rapidly, as well as its "Book on Google" reservation functionality. Our markets are also subject to rapidly changing conditions, including technological 32 developments, consumer behavior changes, regulatory changes and travel service provider consolidation. We expect these trends to continue. For example, we have experienced a significant shift of both direct and indirect business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. In addition, the gross profit earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. For more detail regarding the competitive trends and risks we face, see Part I Item 1 Business - "Competition," Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. " and " Consumer adoption and use of mobile devices creates new challenges and may enable device companies such as Apple to compete directly with us. " and " We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological changes." We have observed an increase in promotional pricing to closed user groups (such as loyalty program participants or consumers with registered accounts), including through mobile apps. For example, Marriott International, Hilton, Hyatt Hotels, InterContinental Hotel Group and Choice Hotels International have launched additional initiatives to encourage consumers to book accommodations directly through their websites, such as increased discounting and incentives. In addition to providing retail travel reservation services, our priceline.com brand is a leading provider of discounted opaque travel reservation services in the United States through its Express Deals and Name Your Own Price offerings. These discounted services are referred to as "opaque" because certain elements of the reservation, including the name of the travel service provider, are not made known to the traveler until after the reservation is made. In general, we expect that over time our opaque services will continue to decrease in relative importance to our overall business due, we believe, to a variety of factors, including the growth rates of our retail businesses, competition, relative complexity, travel restrictions often required by the travel service provider, difficulty in offering these services on mobile devices, increased discounts available to consumers through closed user groups, and limited availability of discounted travel reservations from travel service providers, particularly during periods of high consumer demand. We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through marketing and promotional campaigns. Both our performance and brand advertising expenses have increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , our total performance advertising expense was approximately $981 million and $780 million , respectively, primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services and affiliate marketing to generate traffic to our websites. We also invested approximately $73 million and $70 million in brand advertising for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, primarily related to costs associated with producing and airing television advertising, online video advertising (for example, on YouTube and Facebook) and online display advertising. We intend to continue a strategy of promoting brand awareness through both online and offline advertising efforts, including by expanding brand campaigns into additional markets. We have observed increased brand advertising by OTCs, meta-search services and travel service providers, particularly in North America and Europe, which may make our brand advertising efforts more expensive and less effective. Performance advertising efficiency, expressed as performance advertising expense as a percentage of gross profit, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and the extent to which consumers come directly to our websites or mobile apps for bookings. For example, competition for desired rankings in search results and/or a decline in ad clicks by consumers could increase our costs per click and reduce our performance advertising efficiency. We have also experienced increasing cancellation rates, which we expect to continue and which negatively affects our advertising efficiency and results of operations. Changes by Google in how it presents travel search results, including by placing its own offerings at or near the top of search results, or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results may be competitively disadvantageous to us and may impact our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites. We have observed a long-term trend of decreasing performance advertising returns on investment ("ROIs"), a trend we expect to continue, though the rate of decrease may fluctuate and there may be periods of stable or increasing ROIs from time to time. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We rely on performance and brand advertising channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites and grow our business. " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in internet search engine algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " The national competition authorities ("NCAs") of many governments have conducted or are conducting investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. Some countries have adopted or proposed legislation that could also affect business practices within the online travel industry. For example, in August 2015, France adopted legislation known as the "Macron Law" making price parity agreements illegal, including those that had been approved by the French NCA, and similar legislation may be enacted in other countries. For more information on these investigations and their potential effects on our business, see Note 11 to our Unaudited 33 Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " As the size of our business grows, we may become increasingly subject to the scrutiny of anti-trust and competition regulators. " In addition to the price parity investigations, from time to time NCAs, other governmental agencies, trade associations and private parties take legal actions, including commencing legal proceedings, that may affect our operations. For example, in March 2017, in connection with a lawsuit begun in 2015 by the Association of Turkish Travel Agencies claiming that Booking.com is required to meet certain registration requirements in Turkey, a Turkish court unexpectedly ordered Booking.com to suspend offering Turkish hotels and accommodations to Turkish residents. Although Booking.com is appealing the order and believes it to be without basis, this order has had, and is likely to continue to have, a negative impact on our growth and results of operations. Seasonality A meaningful amount of our gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. However, we generally do not recognize revenue from these bookings until the travel occurs, which can be in a quarter other than when the reservation is booked. In contrast, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as the expense is incurred, which, in the case of performance advertising in particular, is typically in the quarter in which associated reservations are booked. As a result of this potential timing difference between when we record advertising expense and when we recognize associated revenue, we have historically experienced our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation checkouts for the year for our European and North American businesses. The first quarter of the year is typically our lowest level of profitability and may experience additional volatility in earnings growth rates due to these seasonal timing factors. For our Asia-Pacific business, we experience the highest levels of accommodation bookings in the third and fourth quarters of the year, and the highest levels of travel consumption in the fourth quarter. As the relative growth rates for these businesses fluctuate, the quarterly distribution of our operating results may vary. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience an expansion of the booking window (the average time between the making of a travel reservation and the travel), which impacts the relationship between our gross bookings (recognized at the time of booking) and our revenue and gross profit (recognized at the time of checkout). If this trend continues, it may cause additional differences between our gross bookings growth rates and gross profit growth rates. In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2017, our first quarter year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were adversely impacted by Easter falling in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2016. Conversely, our second quarter 2017 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins will be positively impacted by Easter falling in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2016. The timing of other holidays such as Chinese New Year, Carnival and Ramadan can also impact our quarterly year-over-year growth rates. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable advertising expense. In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted by decelerating gross bookings growth in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters. Conversely, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate accelerates, our operating margins are typically negatively impacted by relatively more variable advertising expense. In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted by accelerating gross bookings growth in the near term as a portion of the revenue recognized from such gross bookings will occur in future quarters. Other Factors We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel-related services. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual or extreme weather or natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, droughts and volcanic eruptions, travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, Zika, Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu, SARS and MERS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities or travel-related accidents, can disrupt travel or otherwise result in declines in travel demand. Because these events or concerns are largely unpredictable, they can dramatically and suddenly affect travel behavior by consumers, and therefore demand for our services, which can adversely affect our business and results of operations. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance. " We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have 34 experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to grow gross profit and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain and highly competitive environment in which we operate makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain gross profit growth and profitability. 35 Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units booked through our OTC brands by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked through our OTC brands by our customers, net of cancellations, and is widely used in the travel business. Our non-OTC brands (KAYAK and OpenTable) have different business metrics from those of our OTC brands and therefore search queries through KAYAK and restaurant reservations through OpenTable do not contribute to our gross bookings. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2017 2016 Change Agency $ 18,140 $ 14,534 24.8 % Merchant 2,546 2,119 20.2 % Total $ 20,687 $ 16,653 24.2 % Gross bookings increased by 24.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 27% ), principally due to growth of 27.4% in accommodation room night reservations, approximately 1% growth on a constant-currency basis in ADRs and growth of 15.4% in rental car day reservations, partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and a decrease in airline ticket reservations and airfares. We believe that unit growth rates and total gross bookings and gross profit growth on a constant-currency basis, each of which exclude the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments for the travel services provided. Agency gross bookings increased by 24.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , primarily due to growth in gross bookings from Booking.com agency retail accommodation room night reservations. Merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we facilitate payments for the travel services provided. Merchant gross bookings increased by 20.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , primarily due to growth in gross bookings from the merchant accommodation reservation services for agoda.com and Booking.com, the merchant rental car reservation service for Rentalcars.com and the merchant airline ticket and accommodation reservation services for priceline.com. Accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our services for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2017 2016 Change Room Nights 173.9 136.5 27.4 % Rental Car Days 18.6 16.2 15.4 % Airline Tickets 1.8 1.8 (2.1 )% 36 Accommodation room night reservations increased by 27.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , primarily due to strong execution by our brand teams to add accommodations to our travel reservation services, advertise our brands to consumers and provide a continuously improving experience for customers on our desktop and mobile platforms. Rental car day reservations increased by 15.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , due to an increase in rental car day reservations for Rentalcars.com and priceline.com. Airline ticket reservations decreased by 2.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , due to a decline in priceline.com's retail airline ticket reservations and the discontinuation on September 1, 2016 of priceline.coms Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservation offering, partially offset by an increase in priceline.com's Express Deals airline ticket reservations. Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments for the travel services provided. Agency revenues consist primarily of travel reservation commissions, as well as certain GDS reservation booking fees and travel insurance fees, and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Substantially all of the revenue for Booking.com is agency revenue comprised of accommodation reservation commissions. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we facilitate payments for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction net revenues (i.e., the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged to us by travel service providers) and travel reservation commissions in connection with (a) the accommodation reservations provided through our merchant retail accommodation reservation services at agoda.com, Booking.com and priceline.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at Rentalcars.com and priceline.coms Express Deals reservation services; (2) transaction revenues representing the price of Name Your Own Price reservations charged to a customer (with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues); (3) ancillary fees, including damage excess waiver and travel insurance fees and certain GDS reservation booking fees; and (4) customer processing fees charged in connection with (a) priceline.com's opaque reservation services and (b) the merchant retail accommodation reservation services at priceline.com and agoda.com. Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for (a) sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers and (b) advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; (2) revenues earned by OpenTable for (a) reservation fees (fees paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees earned by OpenTable for restaurant reservation management services; (3) revenues earned by priceline.com for advertising on its websites; and (4) revenues generated by Booking.com's BookingSuite branded accommodation marketing and business analytics services. Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Agency Revenues $ 1,785,313 $ 1,500,029 19.0 % Merchant Revenues 442,045 470,032 (6.0 )% Advertising and Other Revenues 192,046 178,058 7.9 % Total Revenues $ 2,419,404 $ 2,148,119 12.6 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues increased by 19.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , primarily as a result of growth in agency accommodation room night reservations at Booking.com. 37 Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues decreased by 6.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , primarily due to decreases in revenues from priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services, partially offset by increases in our merchant price-disclosed airline ticket, rental car and accommodation reservation services. On September 1, 2016, priceline.com's Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservation offering was discontinued. Our priceline.com Name Your Own Price reservation services, which declined year-over-year, are recorded "gross" in revenue with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues. Our other merchant revenues, which in total grew year-over-year, are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs. As a result, changes in Name Your Own Price reservation revenue disproportionately affect merchant revenues as compared to our other merchant revenues. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2017 consisted primarily of advertising revenues, restaurant reservation revenues and subscription revenues for restaurant reservation management services. Advertising and other revenues increased by 7.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , primarily due to growth in our KAYAK business and increased diner reservation volumes at OpenTable. Cost of Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Cost of Revenues $ 85,169 $ 128,669 (33.8 )% For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost paid to travel service providers for priceline.com's Name Your Own Price and vacation package reservation services, net of applicable taxes and charges; and (2) fees paid to third parties by KAYAK and priceline.com to return travel itinerary information for consumer search queries. Cost of revenues decreased by 33.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , primarily due to a decrease in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Gross Profit $ 2,334,235 $ 2,019,450 15.6 % Gross Margin 96.5 % 94.0 % Total gross profit increased by 15.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 17% ), primarily as a result of the increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , because our revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Name Your Own Price reservation services are recorded "gross" in revenue with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the three months ended March 31, 2017 , these revenues represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Our price-disclosed reservation services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs, have been growing and priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services have been declining. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure for evaluating growth in our business. Gross profit as a percentage of gross bookings was 11.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to 12.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease is due to the timing of booking versus travel, including the impact of Easter falling in the second quarter of 2017 instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2016, and an expansion of the 38 booking window (the average time between the making of a travel reservation and the travel). Other contributing factors to the variance are business mix impacts and the use of discounted closed user group rates. Our international operations accounted for approximately $2.0 billion of our gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to $1.7 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased by 17.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 19% ). Gross profit attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by 6.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , due primarily to growth in gross profit for the U.S. businesses of KAYAK and OpenTable. Our first quarter 2017 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were adversely impacted by Easter falling in the second quarter of 2017 instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2016, which will result in Easter-related checkouts, and therefore recognition of the related revenue and gross profit, generally falling in the second quarter of 2017. Operating Expenses Advertising Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Performance Advertising $ 980,773 $ 779,909 25.8 % % of Total Gross Profit 42.0 % 38.6 % Brand Advertising $ 73,012 $ 69,845 4.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.1 % 3.5 % Performance advertising expenses consist primarily of the costs of: (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; and (4) other performance-based advertisements. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , performance advertising expenses increased compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , primarily to generate increased gross bookings and gross profit. Performance advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2017 increased compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 due to timing of booking versus travel, including the impact of Easter falling in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2016, and an expansion in the booking window, as well as growth of paid traffic channels. We recognize the substantial majority of our performance advertising expenses as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which the associated reservations are booked. In contrast, we generally do not recognize revenue from these reservations until the travel occurs, which can be in a quarter other than when the reservations are booked. Brand advertising expenses are primarily related to our Booking.com, KAYAK, priceline.com, Rentalcars.com and agoda.com businesses and consist mainly of television advertising, online video advertising (including the airing of our television advertising online) and online display advertising. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , brand advertising expenses increased by 4.5% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , primarily due to increased television and online video advertising, including associated production costs, at Booking.com and KAYAK, partially offset by decreased brand advertising at priceline.com and agoda.com due in part to timing of spend. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Sales and Marketing $ 114,036 $ 92,323 23.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.9 % 4.6 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of: (1) credit card and other payment processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for customer chargebacks associated with merchant transactions; (4) customer relations costs; and (5) provisions for 39 bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 due primarily to increased transaction volumes as well as higher provisions for customer chargebacks associated with merchant transactions and bad debt expense related to accommodation commission receivables. Personnel Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Personnel $ 351,030 $ 308,351 13.8 % % of Total Gross Profit 15.0 % 15.3 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes, and employee health and other benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses, partially offset by a reduction in stock-based compensation expense. Stock-based compensation for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was $58.9 million and $66.0 million , respectively, and was impacted by incremental expense in 2016 related to terminations in that period and performance factor adjustments in 2017 compared to 2016. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change General and Administrative $ 135,547 $ 113,045 19.9 % % of Total Gross Profit 5.8 % 5.6 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) personnel-related expenses such as travel, recruiting and training expenses; (2) occupancy and office expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , due primarily to higher personnel-related, occupancy and office expenses associated with increased headcount to support the expansion of our international businesses and higher fees for outside professionals, including professional fees related to our pending acquisition of the Momondo Group. Information Technology Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Information Technology $ 39,945 $ 32,788 21.8 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.7 % 1.6 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; (3) outsourced data center costs; and (4) payments to outside consultants. Information technology expenses increased during the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. 40 Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 83,430 $ 72,871 14.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.6 % 3.6 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation of computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased during the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , primarily as a result of increased depreciation expenses due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build-outs to support growth and geographic expansion, as well as increased capitalized software development costs. Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Interest Income $ 31,992 $ 20,347 57.2 % Interest Expense (55,717 ) (46,894 ) 18.8 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (5,127 ) (12,928 ) (60.3 )% Impairment of Cost-method Investment (50,350 ) N/A Total $ (28,852 ) $ (89,825 ) (67.9 )% For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , interest income on cash and marketable securities increased, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , primarily due to an increase in the average invested balance and higher yields. Interest expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes issued in May 2016. See Note 7 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. "Foreign currency transactions and other" includes foreign exchange gains or losses on derivative contracts, foreign exchange transaction gains or losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, net realized gains or losses on investments and other income or expense. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange losses of $1.1 million and $3.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in losses of $6.5 million and $6.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. We recognized $0.2 million of net realized gains for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to $2.9 million of net realized losses for the three months ended March 31, 2016 related to investments. In the three months ended March 31, 2017 , we recognized $1.0 million of income associated with the forgiveness of a loan (see Note 7 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements) and a $1.4 million gain on an embedded derivative associated with an investment in a Ctrip convertible note (see Note 5 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). During the three months ended March 31, 2016 , we recognized an impairment of approximately $50 million , which was not tax deductible, related to a cost-method investment (see Note 4 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). 41 Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Income Tax Expense $ 71,987 $ 86,069 (16.4 )% Our effective tax rates for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were 13.6% and 18.7% , respectively. Our 2017 effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%, primarily as a result of lower international tax rates and current year excess tax benefits in an amount of $9.9 million recognized from vesting of equity awards pursuant to the adoption of an accounting update effective January 2017 (see Note 1 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by certain non-deductible expenses. Our 2016 effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% primarily as a result of lower international tax rates, partially offset by the tax rate impact of a non-deductible impairment of a cost-method investment of approximately $50 million in the first quarter of 2016 (see Note 4 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Our effective tax rate was lower for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , primarily as a result of an increased proportion of our income being taxed at lower international tax rates due to the growth of our international businesses and current year excess tax benefits recognized from vesting of equity awards. In addition, the non-deductible impairment of a cost-method investment was recognized in the first quarter of 2016, which contributed to a higher effective tax rate compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment, which had a significant beneficial impact on the Company's effective tax rate for those periods. While we expect Booking.com to continue to qualify for Innovation Box Tax treatment with respect to a portion of its earnings for the foreseeable future, the loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit, whether due to a change in tax law or a determination by the Dutch government that Booking.com's activities are not "innovative" or for any other reason, would substantially increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our results of operations. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We may not be able to maintain our 'Innovation Box Tax' benefit. " 42 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2017 , we had $15.5 billion in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments. Approximately $13.3 billion is held by our international subsidiaries and is denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars and Euros and, to a lesser extent, British Pounds Sterling and other currencies. Cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments are comprised of U.S. and international corporate bonds, U.S. and international government securities, high-grade commercial paper, U.S. government agency securities, convertible debt securities and American Depositary Shares ("ADSs") of Ctrip, money market funds and time deposits (see Note 5 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). We intend to indefinitely reinvest the unremitted earnings of our international subsidiaries outside of the United States. At December 31, 2016, we had approximately $13.0 billion cumulative unremitted international earnings. We estimated that the deferred tax liability we would record if such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested internationally was approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2016. If we repatriate cash to the United States, we would utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and beyond that amount incur additional tax payments in the United States. In March 2017, we issued Senior Notes due March 10, 2022, with an interest rate of 0.8% (the "March 2022 Notes") for an aggregate principal amount of 1.0 billion Euros. Interest on the March 2022 Notes is payable annually on March 10, beginning March 10, 2018. The net proceeds of these notes may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include share repurchases, repayment of debt and acquisitions. See Note 7 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the March 2022 Notes. In June 2015, we entered into a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.50% ; or (ii) the greatest of (a) Bank of America, N.A.'s prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% , and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00% , plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50% . Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.085% to 0.20% . The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $70.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50.0 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, which could include acquisitions, share repurchases or debt repayments. As of March 31, 2017, there were no borrowings outstanding and approximately $3.9 million of letters of credit issued under the facility. Our Convertible Senior Notes due March 15, 2018, with an interest rate of 1.0% (the "2018 Notes"), are convertible at the option of the holders as of March 31, 2017 , and, accordingly, we reported the carrying value of the 2018 Notes as a current liability in our Unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2017 . We have received notices for conversion of $40.8 million aggregate principal amount of our 2018 Notes through May 8, 2017. If note holders exercise their option to convert, we would be required to repay the principal amount of the 2018 Notes in cash and may deliver shares of common stock or cash, at our option, to satisfy the conversion value in excess of the principal amount. In September 2016, we signed a turnkey agreement to construct an office building in the Netherlands for the future headquarters of Booking.com for approximately 270 million Euros. Upon signing the agreement, we paid approximately 48 million Euros to the developer, principally related to acquired land use rights, and we expect to pay approximately 34 million Euros related to building construction later in 2017, with the remainder of payments being paid periodically beginning in 2018 until the expected completion of the building in late 2020. We will also incur capital expenditures to fit out and furnish the office space. We expect all future payments to be made from international cash. See Note 11 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. In the first quarter of 2017, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of our common stock, in addition to amounts previously authorized. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 , we repurchased 124,915 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $212.3 million . As of March 31, 2017 , we had a remaining aggregate amount of $4.0 billion authorized by our Board of Directors to purchase our common stock. We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. We expect to use cash on hand and cash generated by our operations in the United States to fund our share repurchases. We may also utilize our revolving credit facility or raise funds through the debt capital markets to fund share repurchases. 43 On February 7, 2017, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire the Momondo Group. We will use approximately $550 million of our international cash to fund this acquisition. The transaction is expected to close later in the year, subject to regulatory approval. Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from consumers and then we pay most of our travel service providers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant seasonal swings in accounts receivable, deferred merchant bookings and travel service provider payables depending on the level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $380.6 million , resulting from net income of $455.6 million and a favorable impact of $151.3 million for non-cash items, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $226.3 million . For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $443.6 million , primarily related to prepayments of Netherlands income taxes of $500.1 million to earn prepayment discounts. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , accounts receivable increased $78.4 million , primarily related to increases in business volumes. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $305.8 million , primarily related to increases in business volumes partially offset by a reduction in accrued compensation liabilities, as a result of the 2016 bonuses being paid in the first quarter of 2017. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount on our convertible notes and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $344.8 million , resulting from net income of $374.4 million and a favorable impact of $207.3 million for non-cash items, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $236.9 million . For the three months ended March 31, 2016, prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $340.5 million, primarily related to prepayments of 2016 income taxes in the first quarter of $431.3 million to earn prepayment discounts, principally by Booking.com. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, accounts receivable increased $191.7 million, primarily related to increases in business volumes. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $294.3 million, primarily related to increases in business volumes partially offset by a reduction in accrued compensation liabilities, as a result of the 2015 bonuses being paid in the first quarter of 2016. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, impairment of a cost-method investment, amortization of debt discount on our convertible notes, deferred income taxes and excess tax benefits on stock-based awards and other equity deductions. Net cash used in investing activities was $892.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 were principally affected by net purchases of investments of $822.2 million . Net cash provided by investing activities was $147.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 were principally affected by net proceeds from sales of investments of $201.3 million. Cash invested in the purchase of property and equipment was $70.6 million and $53.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities was $843.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 primarily consisted of total proceeds of $1.1 billion from the issuance of Senior Notes and the proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $1.5 million , partially offset by payments for repurchase of common stock of $209.8 million . Net cash used in financing activities was $134.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 primarily consisted of payments for repurchase of common stock of $241.7 million , partially offset by proceeds from short-term borrowing of $100.0 million , the proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $4.8 million and proceeds from the issuance of other long-term debt of $2.5 million . Contingencies French tax authorities conducted an audit of the years 2003 through 2012 to determine whether Booking.com is in compliance with its tax obligations in France. Booking.com received formal assessments in December 2015 in which the French tax authorities claim that Booking.com has a permanent establishment in France and seek to recover unpaid income taxes and value-added taxes of approximately 356 million Euros, the majority of which would represent penalties and interest. We believe that Booking.com has been, and continues to be, in compliance with French tax law and we intend to contest the assessments. If we are unable to resolve the matter with the French authorities, we would expect to challenge the assessments in the French courts. In order to contest the assessments in court, we may be required to pay, upfront, the full amount or a significant part of any such assessments, though any such payment would not constitute an admission by us that we owe the 44 taxes. At the end of 2016, French authorities announced their intention to also audit the tax years 2013 to 2015, which could result in additional assessments. See Part II Item IA Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " A number of U.S. jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against online travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). In addition, a number of U.S. states, counties and municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes. For additional information, see Note 11 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Adverse application of U.S. state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. " in this Quarterly Report. As a result of this litigation and other attempts by U.S. jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual (including estimated interest and penalties) for the potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes in the amount of approximately $27 million at both March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 . The accrual is based on our estimate of the probable cost of resolving these issues. Our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded. An estimate for a reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount accrued cannot be reasonably made. If we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash we believe that it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2017 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Sections of this Form 10-Q including, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above and the Risk Factors contained in Part II Item 1A hereof, contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Part II Item 1A, Risk Factors. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 , and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.