Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements " in this Quarterly Report. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, " this discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in " Risk Factors " and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. The information on our websites is not a part of this Quarterly Report and is not incorporated herein by reference. We evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and constant currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-period financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the prior-period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-period monthly average exchange rates. Overview We are a leading provider of online travel and travel-related reservation and search services. Through our online travel reservation services, we connect consumers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world. We offer consumers accommodation reservations (including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels, apartments, vacation rentals and other properties) through our Booking.com, priceline.com and agoda.com brands. Our priceline.com brand also offers consumers reservations for rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages and cruises. We offer rental car reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com. We also allow consumers to easily compare airline ticket, hotel reservation and rental car reservation information from hundreds of travel websites at once through KAYAK. We provide restaurants with reservation management services and consumers with the ability to make restaurant reservations at participating restaurants through OpenTable, a leading provider of online restaurant reservations. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands, including Booking.com, priceline.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, rentalcars.com and, as of July 24, 2014, OpenTable, collectively as "The Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include Booking.com, agoda.com, rentalcars.com, KAYAK and OpenTable, which are independently managed and operated brands. Our principal goal is to serve consumers and our travel service provider and restaurant partners with worldwide leadership in online reservation services. Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com and the results of the internationally based websites of KAYAK and, as of July 24, 2014, OpenTable (in each case regardless of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while making a reservation or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant). During the year ended December 31, 2014 , our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 87% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately 94% of our consolidated operating income. A significant majority of our gross profit is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations. We derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car, airline ticket and vacation package reservation services; Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to online travel companies ("OTCs") and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; Beginning on July 24, 2014, revenues recognized by OpenTable, which consist of reservation revenues (a fee for restaurant guests seated through OpenTable's online reservation service), subscription fees for restaurant reservation management services and other revenues; and Damage excess waiver fees, travel insurance fees and global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees, in each case related to certain of our travel services. Our priceline.com brand offers merchant Name Your Own Price opaque travel services, which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue. All of our other services are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix 29 of our revenues between Name Your Own Price travel services and other services. Gross profit reflects the commission or net margin earned for all of our services. Consequently, gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business because, in contrast to our revenues, it is not affected by the different methods of recording revenue and cost of revenue between our Name Your Own Price travel reservation services and our other services. Trends Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices, the high growth of travel overall in emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America, and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build accommodation supply, content and distribution and to improve the customer experience on our websites and mobile apps. These year-over-year growth rates have generally decelerated in recent years. For example, for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , our accommodation room night reservation growth was 22% compared to 27% in the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Given the size of our hotel reservation business, we expect that our year-over-year growth rates will continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate. The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet use and e-commerce activity of international consumers have trailed that of consumers in the United States. However, international consumers are increasingly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. We expect that over the long term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. Our growth has primarily been generated by our worldwide accommodation reservation service brand, Booking.com, which is our most significant brand, and has been due, in part, to the availability of a large and growing number of directly bookable properties through Booking.com. Booking.com included over 820,000 properties on its website as of November 3, 2015 , which included about 378,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website), and compares to approximately 594,000 properties (including approximately 237,000 vacation rental properties) a year ago. In September 2015, Booking.com changed the way it calculates property counts. As a result, properties that are contracted with Booking.com but temporarily do not have availability on Booking.com (for example properties that are closed during their off-peak season or for renovations) will remain included in Booking.com's property counts during these temporary periods. Booking.com previously excluded properties that were temporarily unavailable for booking. We believe that continuously including them provides a more consistent and useful property count. We believe that continuing to expand the number and variety of accommodations available through our services, in particular Booking.com, will enable us to continue to grow our accommodation reservation business. As our international business represents the substantial majority of our financial results, we expect to continue to see our operating results and other financial metrics largely driven by international performance. For example, certain markets in which we operate that are in earlier stages of development have lower operating margins compared to more mature markets, which could have a negative impact on our overall margins as these markets increase in size over time. Also, we intend to continue to invest in adding accommodations available for reservation on our websites, including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels and vacation rentals. Vacation rentals generally consist of, among others, properties categorized as single-unit and multi-unit villas, apartments, "aparthotels" (which are apartments with a front desk and cleaning service) and chalets and are generally self-catered (i.e., include a kitchen), directly bookable properties. The approximately 378,000 vacation rental properties on Booking.com's website as of November 3, 2015 (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com's website) represent approximately 1.9 million instantly bookable and confirmable units within these properties. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms, lower average daily rates ("ADRs") or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts), and therefore may also negatively impact our margins. For example, because a vacation rental is either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, vacation rental properties represent more limited booking opportunities than non-vacation rental properties, which generally have more units to rent per property. Our non-hotel accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons, weather or other factors. As we increase our non-hotel accommodation business, these different market characteristics could negatively impact our profit margins; and, to the 30 extent these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our websites, our gross bookings growth rate and property growth rate will likely diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of non-hotel accommodations increases, the number of reservations per property will likely decrease. Concerns persist about the outlook for the global economy in general, including the European Union, with recent declines in broad Eurozone economic indicators raising fears about the pace of economic growth and the risk of deflation. In addition, many governments around the world, including the U.S. government and certain European governments, continue to operate at large financial deficits, resulting in high levels of sovereign debt in such countries. Greece, Ireland, Portugal and certain other European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt at times have had difficulty refinancing their debt. Failure to reach political consensus regarding workable solutions to these issues has resulted in a high level of uncertainty regarding the future economic outlook. This uncertainty, as well as concern over governmental austerity measures including higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates, cancellation rates, and weaker trends in hotel ADRs across many regions of the world, particularly in those European countries that appear to be most affected by economic uncertainties. We believe that these business trends are likely impacted by weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns. Disruptions in the economies of such countries could cause, contribute to or be indicative of deteriorating macro-economic conditions. Greece, in particular, has recently faced and continues to face significant economic challenges, in large part due to its high levels of sovereign debt and difficulties re-financing that debt. Although Greece's newly elected government has accepted various austerity measures, it campaigned against austerity measures and in a recent referendum the Greek people rejected certain austerity measures. As a result, it is uncertain whether Greece's recent austerity measures and debt agreement with the European Union will result in a long-term solution to the country's debt crisis. This may increase the likelihood that Greece, and in turn other countries, could exit the European Union, which could lead to added economic uncertainty and further devaluation or eventual abandonment of the Euro common currency. These and other macro-economic uncertainties, such as sovereign default risk becoming more widespread, declining oil prices and geopolitical tensions, have led to significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the U.S. Dollar and other currencies. The European Central Bank, in an effort to stimulate the European economy, recently launched a quantitative easing program to purchase public debt, which in turn has contributed to the weakening of the Euro compared to the U.S. Dollar. As noted earlier, our international business represents a substantial majority of our financial results. Therefore, because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international businesses are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. The U.S. Dollar significantly strengthened against the Euro during 2014, moving from an exchange rate of 1.38 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of January 1, 2014 to 1.21 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of December 31, 2014 . The U.S. Dollar has strengthened further in 2015 to an exchange rate of 1.12 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of September 30, 2015 . The U.S. Dollar also strengthened significantly during this time frame as compared to many other currencies. As a result, our foreign currency denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses and net income have been negatively impacted as expressed in U.S. Dollars. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins are not significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. The aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated 2024 Notes and 2027 Notes, and accrued interest thereon, provide a natural hedge of the net assets of certain of our Euro functional currency subsidiaries. Gross profit from our international operations grew year-over-year on a constant currency basis by approximately 29% and 28% , respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, but, as a result of the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, grew 11.4% for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , as reported in U.S. Dollars. We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results. However, such derivative instruments are short term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact our gross bookings, revenues or gross profit (see Note 5 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). Significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates can also impact consumer travel behavior. For example, dramatic depreciation of the Russian Ruble in 2014 resulted in it becoming more expensive for Russians to travel to Europe and most other non-Ruble destinations. Consumers traveling from a country whose currency has weakened against other currencies may book lower ADR accommodations, choose to shorten or cancel their international travel plans or choose to travel domestically rather than internationally, any of which could adversely affect our gross bookings, revenues and results of operations, in particular when expressed in U.S. Dollars. 31 The uncertainty of macro-economic factors, the volatility in foreign exchange rates and their impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. We compete with both online and traditional travel and travel-related reservation and search services. The market for the travel reservation and search services we offer is intensely competitive, a trend we expect to continue, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. We currently, or may potentially in the future, compete with a variety of companies, including: online travel reservation services such as those owned by Expedia (which acquired Travelocity in January 2015 and Orbitz in September 2015), Ctrip, Rakuten, eDreams ODIGEO and Jalan; online accommodation search and/or reservation services, such as Airbnb and HomeAway (which has agreed to be acquired by Expedia), focused on vacation rental properties, including individually owned properties; large online companies, including search, social networking and marketplace companies such as Google, Facebook, Alibaba and Groupon; traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators, such as Carlson Wagonlit, American Express, Thomas Cook and Tui Travel, as well as thousands of individual travel agencies around the world; travel service providers such as accommodation providers, rental car companies and airlines; online travel search and price comparison services (generally referred to as "meta-search" services), such as TripAdvisor, trivago (in which Expedia holds a majority ownership interest), Qunar and HotelsCombined; and online restaurant reservation services, such as TripAdvisor's LaFourchette and Yelp's SeatMe. For more detail regarding the competitive trends and risks we face, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. " and " Consumer adoption and use of mobile devices create new challenges and may enable device companies such as Apple to compete directly with us. " After entering into an exclusive, long-term strategic marketing agreement in August 2013, Expedia acquired Travelocity in January 2015. And, in September 2015, Expedia acquired Orbitz. To the extent these acquisitions enhance Expedia's ability to compete with us, in particular in the United States, which is Expedia's, Travelocity's and Orbitz's largest market, our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected. Widespread adoption of mobile devices, such as the iPhone, Android-enabled smart phones and tablets such as the iPad, coupled with the improved web browsing functionality and development of thousands of useful "apps" available on these devices, is driving substantial online traffic and commerce to mobile platforms. We have experienced a significant shift of business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Our major competitors and certain new market entrants are offering mobile apps for travel products and other mobile functionality, including proprietary last-minute discounts for accommodation reservations. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. The gross profit earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. Further, given the device sizes and technical limitations of tablets and smart phones, mobile consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps from multiple companies providing a similar service and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their mobile travel and restaurant research and reservation activity. As a result, the consumer experience with mobile apps as well as brand recognition and loyalty are likely to become increasingly important. Our mobile offerings have received generally strong reviews and achieved solid download trends, and are driving a material and increasing share of our business. We believe that mobile bookings present an opportunity for growth and are necessary to maintain and grow our business as consumers increasingly turn to mobile devices instead of a personal computer and to mobile apps in addition to a web browser. If we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly and differentiated mobile offerings and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our mobile apps are not downloaded and used by consumers, we could lose market share to existing competitors or new entrants and our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. 32 In addition, we have observed an increase in promotional pricing to closed user groups (such as loyalty program participants or customers with registered accounts), including through mobile apps. If we are not as effective as our competitors in offering discounted prices to closed user groups or if we are unable to entice members of our competitors' closed user groups to use our services, our ability to grow and compete could be harmed. If we need to fund discounts out of our gross profit, our profitability could be adversely affected. Further, growth in discounted closed user group retail prices for hotel rooms lessens the price difference for members of closed user groups between a retail hotel reservation and an opaque hotel reservation, which we believe has led to fewer consumers using our opaque hotel reservation services. In addition, hotels typically make available only a limited number of hotel rooms for opaque services like those of our priceline.com business, especially during periods of high occupancy. Recent high hotel occupancy levels in the United States (which have had an adverse impact on our access to hotel rooms for our opaque hotel reservation services) and, we believe, the increased use by consumers of discounted closed user group retail prices for hotel rooms have negatively affected our opaque hotel reservation gross profit. We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotional campaigns. Both our online and offline advertising expense has increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , our total online advertising expense was approximately $2.2 billion , primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services and affiliate marketing to generate traffic to our websites. We also invested approximately $181 million in offline advertising during that period. We intend to continue a strategy of aggressively promoting brand awareness, primarily through online means although we also intend to increase our offline advertising efforts, including by expanding offline campaigns into additional markets. For example, building on its first offline advertising campaign, which it launched in the United States in 2013, Booking.com has begun offline advertising campaigns in other markets, including Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Brazil and Japan. We have observed increased offline advertising by OTCs, meta-search services and travel service providers, particularly in North America and Europe, which may make our offline advertising efforts more expensive and less effective. Online advertising efficiency, expressed as online advertising expense as a percentage of gross profit, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and the extent to which consumers come directly to our websites or mobile apps for bookings. For example, competition for desired rankings in search results and/or a decline in ad clicks by consumers could increase our costs-per-click and reduce our online advertising efficiency. From 2011 to 2013, our online advertising expense grew faster than our gross profit due to (1) year-over-year declines in online advertising returns on investment ("ROIs") and (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group as our international brands grew faster than our U.S. brands and spent a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. In 2014, these long-term trends continued, but were more than offset by the inclusion of KAYAK and OpenTable because they spend a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other brands. Also, our consolidated results exclude intercompany advertising by our brands on KAYAK since our acquisition of KAYAK in May 2013. In the first three quarters of 2015, online advertising efficiency declined compared to the prior year, mainly due to lower ROIs. If Google changes how it presents travel search results or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results in a manner that is competitively disadvantageous to us, whether to support its own travel-related services or otherwise, our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites could be harmed. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We rely on online advertising channels to enhance our brand awareness and to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in Internet search engine algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " The national competition authorities ("NCAs") of many governments have begun investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. For example, between July 2012 and September 2015 Booking.com was the subject of a competition investigation by U.K. competition authorities. Other NCAs, including those in France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Sweden, Ireland and Switzerland, more recently opened investigations that focus on Booking.com's contractual parity arrangements with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions, and a number of other NCAs are looking at these issues. It is uncertain how these issues will finally be resolved. For example, the French, Italian and Swedish NCAs accepted commitments offered by Booking.com to resolve and close their investigations and Booking.com voluntarily implemented these commitments throughout the European Economic Area and Switzerland on July 1, 2015, which resolved the concerns of various other countries. However, in August 2015 France adopted legislation known as the "Macron Law" making price parity agreements illegal, including those that had been approved by the French NCA. For more information on these investigations and their potential effects on our business, see Footnote 12 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " As the size of our business grows, we may become increasingly subject to the scrutiny of anti-trust and competition regulators. " To the extent that regulatory authorities impose fines or require changes to our business practices or to those currently common to the industry or legislation is enacted with a similar effect, our business, competitive position and results of operations could be materially and 33 adversely affected. Negative publicity regarding any such investigations could adversely affect our brand and therefore our market share and results of operations. Seasonality A meaningful amount of our gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as the expense is incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which reservations are booked. However, we generally do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs. As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation checkouts for the year for our European and North American businesses. In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2013 our second quarter year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were adversely affected by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, as it did in 2012. Conversely, our second quarter 2014 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were favorably impacted by Easter falling in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2013. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable advertising expense. In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters. We experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters. Therefore, if these businesses grow faster than our European and North American businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full-year operating results. Other Factors We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel-related services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods and volcanic eruptions, travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu, SARS and MERS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities or travel-related accidents, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. For example, our business and operations were negatively impacted by Hurricane Sandy, which disrupted travel in the northeastern United States in late 2012; a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency in Japan in 2011; severe flooding in Thailand in October 2011; and disruptive civil unrest in Thailand in 2010 and 2014. In addition, MERS has had an adverse impact on our business in northeast Asia in 2015. Future natural disasters, health concerns or civil or political unrest could further disrupt our business and operations. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. For example, we are investing in growth initiatives at OpenTable, including international expansion, and in building our BookingSuite partner-facing software services platform. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to grow gross profit and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain gross profit growth and profitability. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates As of September 30, 2015, we performed our annual goodwill impairment testing and concluded that there was no impairment of goodwill. A substantial portion of our intangibles and goodwill relates to our acquisitions of OpenTable in July 2014 and KAYAK in May 2013. Other than OpenTable, the fair values of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values as of September 30, 2015. 34 As of September 30, 2015, OpenTables carrying value was $2.5 billion , of which $1.5 billion relates to goodwill. The fair value of OpenTable slightly exceeded its carrying value as of September 30, 2015 . OpenTables fair value was determined using a combination of standard valuation techniques, including an income approach (discounted cash flows) and market approaches (EBITDA multiples of comparable publicly-traded companies and for precedent transactions). Since the acquisition, we have invested, and intend to continue to invest, in OpenTable to accelerate its global expansion, increase the value offered to its restaurant partners and enhance the end-to-end experience for customers across desktop and mobile devices. As expected, these investments resulted in lower OpenTable post-acquisition EBITDA compared to pre-acquisition levels. However, the time required to execute these investments has exceeded our initial expectations. Despite the delays, we continue to believe that these investments will result in significant future earnings. Future events and changing market conditions may, however, lead us to reevaluate the assumptions we have used to test for goodwill impairment, including key assumptions regarding OpenTable's expected growth rates and operating margins, as well as other key assumptions with respect to matters outside of our control, such as discount rates, currency exchange rates and market EBITDA comparables. If OpenTables investments, in particular its investments in its global expansion efforts, are not successful, there is a substantial likelihood that we would recognize a related goodwill impairment, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. 35 Results of Operations Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 compared to the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units purchased by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings, net of cancellations, is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers and is widely used in the travel business. International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com businesses and U.S. gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our priceline.com business, in each case regardless of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while making a reservation or the location of the travel service provider. We follow a similar approach for reporting the international and U.S. revenue and gross profit of those businesses. Gross bookings resulting from accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our international and U.S. operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change International $ 13,078 $ 12,080 8.3 % $ 38,273 $ 34,406 11.2 % U.S. 1,700 1,743 (2.5 )% 5,240 5,235 0.1 % Total $ 14,778 $ 13,823 6.9 % $ 43,513 $ 39,641 9.8 % Gross bookings increased by 6.9% and 9.8% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 22% and 25% , respectively), principally due to growth of 22.0% and 24.5% , respectively, in accommodation room night reservations, 2% growth on a constant currency basis in ADRs for each period and growth of 13.0% and 17.0% , respectively, in rental car day reservations. International gross bookings grew by 8.3% and 11.2% , respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 25% and 28% , respectively). International gross bookings growth on a constant currency basis was primarily attributable to growth in accommodation room night reservations for our Booking.com business, as well as growth in rental car day reservations for our rentalcars.com business and accommodation room night reservations for our agoda.com business. The U.S. Dollar significantly strengthened against the Euro during 2014, moving from an exchange rate of 1.38 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of January 1, 2014 to 1.21 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of December 31, 2014. The U.S. Dollar has strengthened further during 2015 to an exchange rate of 1.12 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of September 30, 2015 . The U.S. Dollar has also strengthened against many other currencies since January 1, 2014. At these exchange rates, the growth of our international and total gross bookings, expressed in U.S. Dollars, has been and will continue to be significantly adversely impacted through the remainder of 2015. We therefore believe that unit growth rates and total gross bookings, international gross bookings and gross profit growth on a constant currency basis, excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. U.S. gross bookings decreased by 2.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014 due to declines in gross bookings by priceline.coms retail airline ticket service (primarily due to lower airfares, partially offset by an increase in the number of retail airline ticket reservations), Name Your Own Price reservation services and vacation package reservation service, partially offset by increases in gross bookings by priceline.coms retail hotel, retail rental car and Express Deals hotel reservation services and the inclusion of our Rocketmiles hotel reservation service (which we acquired in February 2015). U.S. gross bookings increased by 0.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2014, primarily due to increases in gross bookings by priceline.com's retail hotel and rental car reservation services, priceline.com's Express Deals hotel reservation service and the inclusion of our Rocketmiles hotel reservation service, mostly offset by declines in gross bookings by priceline.com's retail airline ticket service (due to lower airfares, partially offset by an increase in the number of airline ticket reservations), Name Your Own Price reservation services and vacation package reservation service. Travel service providers typically provide a limited amount of availability to opaque services like those of priceline.com, especially during periods of healthy travel 36 demand. As a result, the recent healthy travel environment (which has had an adverse impact on our access to availability) and the increased use by consumers of discounted closed user group retail prices for hotel rooms have negatively affected our opaque reservation services. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change Agency $ 12,850 $ 11,821 8.7 % $ 37,625 $ 33,917 10.9 % Merchant 1,928 2,002 (3.7 )% 5,889 5,724 2.9 % Total $ 14,778 $ 13,823 6.9 % $ 43,513 $ 39,641 9.8 % Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we are the merchant of record. Agency gross bookings increased 8.7% and 10.9% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, primarily due to growth in gross bookings from Booking.com accommodation room night reservations, as well as growth in gross bookings by priceline.com and agoda.com agency retail hotel reservation services, rentalcars.com and priceline.com agency retail rental car reservation services, partially offset by lower retail airfares. Merchant gross bookings decreased 3.7% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014 due to the impact of the stronger U.S. Dollar on agoda.coms merchant retail hotel reservation services and declines in gross booking by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services, partially offset by increases in gross bookings by merchant retail hotel reservation services for Booking.com and priceline.com, priceline.com's Express Deals hotel reservation service, rentalcars.com rental car reservations and the inclusion of our Rocketmiles hotel reservation service. Merchant gross bookings increased 2.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2014, primarily due to increases in gross bookings by merchant retail hotel reservation services for priceline.com and Booking.com, priceline.com's Express Deals hotel reservation services, rentalcars.com rental car reservation services and the inclusion of our Rocketmiles hotel reservation service, partially offset by declines in gross bookings by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services and the impact of the stronger U.S. Dollar on agoda.com's merchant retail hotel reservation services. The U.S. Dollar is significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies as of September 30, 2015 compared to 2014 . At these exchange rates, the growth of our agency and merchant gross bookings, expressed in U.S. Dollars, has been and will continue to be significantly adversely impacted through the remainder of 2015. Accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our services for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change Room Nights 115.6 94.8 22.0 % 333.3 267.8 24.5 % Rental Car Days 16.0 14.2 13.0 % 47.7 40.8 17.0 % Airline Tickets 2.0 2.0 (1.1 )% 6.1 6.1 (1.3 )% Accommodation room night reservations increased by 22.0% and 24.5% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, due to an increase in Booking.com, agoda.com and priceline.com accommodation room night reservations and the inclusion of Rocketmiles accommodation room night reservations. Booking.com included over 820,000 properties on its website as of November 3, 2015 , which included about 378,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website), and compares to approximately 594,000 properties (including approximately 237,000 vacation rental properties) a year ago. In September 2015, Booking.com changed the way it calculates property counts. As a result, properties that are contracted with Booking.com but temporarily do not have availability on Booking.com (for example, properties that are closed during their off-peak season or for renovations) will remain included in Booking.com's property counts during these temporary periods. Booking.com previously excluded properties that were temporarily unavailable for booking. We believe that continuously including them provides a more consistent and useful property count. 37 Rental car day reservations increased by 13.0% and 17.0% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, due to an increase in price-disclosed rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and priceline.com, partially offset by a decline in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price rental car day reservations. Airline ticket reservations decreased by 1.1% and 1.3% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, due to a decline in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservations, partially offset by an increase in priceline.com's retail airline ticket reservations. Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, GDS reservation booking fees related to certain travel services, travel insurance fees and customer processing fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Substantially all of the revenue for Booking.com is agency revenue comprised of travel commissions. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer's credit card for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction net revenues (i.e., to the extent applicable, the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged to us by travel service providers) in connection with (a) the accommodation reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel reservation services at agoda.com, priceline.com, Booking.com and Rocketmiles and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at rentalcars.com and merchant Express Deals reservation services at priceline.com; (2) transaction revenues representing the price of Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservations and vacation packages charged to a customer (with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues); (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with priceline.com's Express Deals reservation services, Name Your Own Price reservation services and merchant retail hotel reservation service; and (4) ancillary fees, including damage excess waiver and travel insurance fees and GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for (a) sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers and (b) advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; (2) revenues earned by OpenTable for (a) reservation fees (a fee for restaurant guests seated through OpenTable's online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees earned by OpenTable for restaurant reservation management services; (3) revenues earned by priceline.com for advertising on its websites; and (4) revenues generated by Booking.com's BookingSuite branded hotel marketing services. Revenue from KAYAK is net of intercompany revenues earned by KAYAK from other Priceline Group brands. Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change Agency Revenues $ 2,345,673 $ 2,099,629 11.7 % $ 5,127,174 $ 4,615,169 11.1 % Merchant Revenues 596,503 613,535 (2.8 )% 1,637,191 1,707,786 (4.1 )% Advertising and Other Revenues 160,725 123,333 30.3 % 459,627 278,919 64.8 % Total Revenues $ 3,102,901 $ 2,836,497 9.4 % $ 7,223,992 $ 6,601,874 9.4 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 increased 11.7% and 11.1% , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com, the agency hotel businesses of priceline.com and agoda.com and the agency rental car businesses of rentalcars.com and priceline.com. The U.S. Dollar is significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies as of 38 September 30, 2015 compared to 2014 . At these exchange rates, the growth of our agency revenues, expressed in U.S. Dollars, has been and will continue to be significantly adversely impacted through the remainder of 2015. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 decreased 2.8% and 4.1% , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, primarily due to decreases in revenues from priceline.com's Name Your Own Price hotel, airline ticket and rental car reservation services, partially offset by increases in our merchant price-disclosed hotel and rental car businesses. Our priceline.com Name Your Own Price reservation services, which declined year-over-year, are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues. Our other merchant revenues, which grew year-over-year, are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs. As a result, changes in Name Your Own Price reservation revenue disproportionately affect merchant revenues as compared to our other merchant revenues. We therefore believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. The U.S. Dollar is significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies as of September 30, 2015 compared to 2014 . At these exchange rates, the growth of our merchant revenues, expressed in U.S. Dollars, has been and will continue to be significantly adversely impacted through the remainder of 2015. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 consisted primarily of advertising revenues, restaurant reservation revenues and subscription revenues for restaurant reservation management services. Other revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 includes $64.8 million and $187.5 million , respectively, of OpenTable revenue. Other revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 included $41.2 million of OpenTable revenue earned since its acquisition on July 24, 2014. Cost of Revenues Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change Cost of Revenues $ 155,619 $ 216,519 (28.1 )% $ 511,568 $ 692,429 (26.1 )% For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost paid to travel service providers for priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services, net of applicable taxes and charges; (2) fees paid to third parties by KAYAK and priceline.com to return travel itinerary information for customer search queries; and (3) costs related to accruals for travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). Cost of revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 decreased by 28.1% and 26.1% , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , cost of revenue benefited from a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the first quarter of 2015 related to a favorable ruling in the State of Hawaii. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, we recognized a net reduction in cost of revenue in the third quarter of 2015 of $13.7 million related to travel transaction taxes, principally due to a cash refund from the State of Hawaii for the aforementioned favorable ruling. Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Agency revenues principally consist of travel commissions on accommodation reservations. Gross Profit Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change Gross Profit $ 2,947,282 $ 2,619,978 12.5 % $ 6,712,424 $ 5,909,445 13.6 % Gross Margin 95.0 % 92.4 % 92.9 % 89.5 % 39 Total gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 increased by 12.5% and 13.6% , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 29% for both the three and nine months), primarily as a result of the increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, because our revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 these revenues represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. Our retail and semi-opaque reservation services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs, have been growing faster than priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure for evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $2.6 billion and $5.8 billion of our gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively, which compares to $2.3 billion and $5.2 billion, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased by 11.4% for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 29% and 28% for the three and nine months, respectively). Gross profit attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by 21.9% and 29.8% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. Gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 was positively impacted by the inclusion of OpenTable, which benefited year-over-year comparisons through the anniversary of the acquisition on July 24, 2015. In addition, gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was positively impacted by a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the first quarter of 2015 related to a favorable ruling in the State of Hawaii. Gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 was also positively impacted by a net reduction in cost of revenue in the third quarter of 2015 of $13.7 million related to travel transaction taxes, principally due to a cash refund from the State of Hawaii for the aforementioned favorable ruling. The U.S. Dollar is significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies as of September 30, 2015 compared to 2014 . At these exchange rates, the growth of our total and international gross profit, expressed in U.S. Dollars, has been and will continue to be significantly adversely impacted through the remainder of 2015. Operating Expenses Advertising Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change Online Advertising $ 801,147 $ 699,814 14.5 % $ 2,215,181 $ 1,860,317 19.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 27.2 % 26.7 % 33.0 % 31.5 % Offline Advertising $ 51,440 $ 71,593 (28.1 )% $ 181,325 $ 183,093 (1.0 )% % of Total Gross Profit 1.7 % 2.7 % 2.7 % 3.1 % Online advertising expenses consist primarily of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; and (4) banner, pop-up and other Internet and mobile advertisements. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , online advertising expenses increased over the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, primarily to generate increased gross bookings. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 benefited from the inclusion of OpenTable because OpenTable spends a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising relative to our other brands. In addition, the share of our business coming directly to our websites with no associated online advertising expense increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. These favorable impacts were more than offset for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 by a year-over-year decline in advertising ROIs, a trend that we expect to continue. Offline advertising expenses are primarily related to our Booking.com, KAYAK and priceline.com businesses and primarily consist of television advertising. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , offline advertising 40 decreased by 28.1% and 1.0% , respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, primarily due to lower spending at KAYAK and, to a lesser extent, priceline.com. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change Sales and Marketing $ 93,069 $ 86,092 8.1 % $ 269,536 $ 225,456 19.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.2 % 3.3 % 4.0 % 3.8 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) customer relations costs; (4) provisions for credit card chargebacks; (5) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables; and (6) public relations costs. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 due primarily to increased gross booking volumes, customer relations costs and the inclusion of OpenTable since its acquisition on July 24, 2014. Personnel Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change Personnel $ 305,329 $ 259,471 17.7 % $ 853,469 $ 675,854 26.3 % % of Total Gross Profit 10.4 % 9.9 % 12.7 % 11.4 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes and employee health benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses. Additionally, the inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 contributed to this increase in personnel expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. Stock-based compensation expense was $58.3 million and $172.4 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $46.1 million and $120.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change General and Administrative $ 109,706 $ 97,902 12.1 % $ 308,829 $ 261,950 17.9 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.7 % 3.7 % 4.6 % 4.4 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) personnel-related expenses such as travel, recruiting and training expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, due to $7.7 million of expense for a fair value adjustment to the contingent liability related to an acquisition, higher occupancy and office expenses related to the expansion of our international businesses and higher personnel-related expenses related to increased headcount in all of our businesses. Additionally, the inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 contributed to the increase in general and administrative expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. 41 Information Technology Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change Information Technology $ 28,830 $ 24,802 16.2 % $ 81,347 $ 72,068 12.9 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.0 % 0.9 % 1.2 % 1.2 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; (3) outsourced data center costs; and (4) payments to outside consultants. Information technology expense increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. Additionally, the inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 contributed to the increase in information technology expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 69,054 $ 57,599 19.9 % $ 201,730 $ 136,262 48.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.3 % 2.2 % 3.0 % 2.3 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment; and (4) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , depreciation and amortization expense increased compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 due primarily to increased intangible amortization from the OpenTable acquisition and increased depreciation expense due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build-outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com business. Additionally, the inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 contributed to the increase in depreciation expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change Interest Income $ 14,682 $ 2,490 489.6 % $ 39,315 $ 5,165 661.2 % Interest Expense (41,436 ) (22,953 ) 80.5 % (116,462 ) (57,804 ) 101.5 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (5,783 ) 3,347 (272.8 )% (12,070 ) (4,399 ) 174.4 % Total $ (32,537 ) $ (17,116 ) 90.1 % $ (89,217 ) $ (57,038 ) 56.4 % For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , interest income on cash and marketable securities increased compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , primarily due to higher yields and an increase in the average invested balance. 42 Interest expense increased for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes issued in August 2014, September 2014 and March 2015, partially offset by the maturity of our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes in March 2015. The termination of the revolving credit facility entered into in October 2011 resulted in a charge to interest expense of $1.0 million in June 2015 to write off the remaining unamortized debt issuance costs (see Note 8). Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange losses of $6.4 million and $6.2 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively, compared to foreign exchange gains of $8.3 million and $12.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, respectively, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in gains of $1.1 million and losses of $8.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively, compared to foreign exchange losses of $5.8 million and $11.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, respectively, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , we recognized $0.3 million of net realized losses and $3.1 million of net realized gains, respectively, related to investments, which are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. The conversion of our convertible debt prior to maturity in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 resulted in non-cash losses of $0.2 million and $6.3 million , respectively, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. Income Taxes Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) Nine Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change Income Tax Expense $ 259,438 $ 243,336 6.6 % $ 464,699 $ 467,485 (0.6 )% Our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 were 17.8% and 18.5% , respectively, compared to 18.6% and 19.2% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%, due to lower tax rates outside the United States, partially offset by U.S. state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. Our effective tax rate was lower for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, due to an increased proportion of our income being taxed at lower international tax rates. According to Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying innovative activities is taxed at a rate of 5% ("Innovation Box Tax") rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment, which had a significant beneficial impact on the Company's effective tax rate for those periods. While we expect Booking.com to continue to qualify for Innovation Box Tax treatment with respect to a portion of its earnings for the foreseeable future, the loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit, whether due to a change in tax law or a determination by the Dutch government that Booking.com's activities are not "innovative" or for any other reason, would substantially increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our results of operations. Until our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, most of our U.S. income will not be subject to a cash tax liability, other than federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our international income except in countries where we have operating loss carryforwards. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income faster than the U.S. business over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international businesses generate an increasing share of our pretax income. We will be subject to increased income taxes in the event that our cash balances held outside the United States are remitted to the United States. As of September 30, 2015 , we held approximately $8.7 billion of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments outside of the United States. We currently intend to use our cash held outside the United States to reinvest in our international operations. If our cash balances outside the United States continue to grow and our ability to reinvest those balances outside the United States diminishes, under U.S. GAAP we will be obligated to record 43 additional income tax expense in the United States with respect to our unremitted international earnings. We would not make additional income tax payments unless we were to actually repatriate our international cash to the United States. We would pay only U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and certain U.S. state income taxes as long as we have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset our U.S. taxable income. This could result in us being subject to a cash income tax liability on the earnings of our U.S. businesses sooner than would otherwise have been the case. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2015 , we had $9.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments. Approximately $8.7 billion is held by our international subsidiaries and is denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars, Euros and, to a lesser extent, British Pounds Sterling and other currencies. We currently intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of the United States. If we repatriate cash to the United States, we would utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and beyond that amount incur additional tax payments in the United States. Cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments are comprised of U.S. and foreign corporate bonds, U.S. and foreign government securities, high-grade commercial paper, U.S. government agency securities, foreign equity securities and bank deposits. On May 26, 2015, we invested $250 million in five -year senior convertible notes issued at par by Ctrip.com International Ltd. ("Ctrip"). Additionally, as of September 30, 2015 , we had invested $584.1 million in Ctrip American Depositary Shares ("ADSs"), which includes $22.1 million settled in October 2015. In October 2015, we invested an additional $46.2 million in Ctrip ADSs. In June 2015, we entered into a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.50% ; or the greatest of (a) Bank of America, N.A.'s prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% , and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00% , plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50% . Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.085% to 0.20% . The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $70.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50.0 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of September 30, 2015, there were no borrowings outstanding and approximately $2.5 million of letters of credit issued under the facility. In October 2015, we borrowed $100.0 million under this revolving credit facility. During the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , we repurchased 1,897,446 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $2.3 billion . As of September 30, 2015 , we had a remaining authorization in the amount of $748.8 million from our Board of Directors to purchase our common stock. Stock repurchases in September 2015 of 57,241 shares for an aggregate cost of $68.4 million were settled in October 2015. During the period from October 1, 2015 through October 30, 2015 , we repurchased 397,038 additional shares for an aggregate cost of $519.6 million . We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. In September 2015, we paid $18.4 million to settle a contingent liability related to an acquisition. The portion of the payment related to the acquisition-date estimated fair value of $10.7 million is shown as a financing activity and the remaining portion of the payment for $7.7 million, which was charged to operating expense as a fair value adjustment, is included as an operating activity on the Unaudited Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. In March 2015, we issued 1.0 billion Euro aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2027, with an interest rate of 1.8% . Interest on the notes is payable annually on March 3, beginning March 3, 2016. In addition, in March 2015, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2025, with an interest rate of 3.65% . Interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15, beginning September 15, 2015. The net proceeds of these notes were used for general corporate purposes. See Note 8 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these notes. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, in connection with the maturity or conversion prior to maturity of the remaining outstanding 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due March 15, 2015, we paid $37.5 million to satisfy the aggregate 44 principal amount due and paid an additional $110.1 million in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount. Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from our customers and then we pay most of our travel service providers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant swings in accounts receivable, deferred merchant bookings and travel service provider payables seasonally depending on the absolute level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $2.2 billion , resulting from net income of $2.0 billion and a favorable impact of $385.1 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $211.1 million . For the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $86.8 million , primarily related to a prepayment of 2015 income taxes in the first six months by Booking.com to earn a prepayment discount. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , accounts receivable increased $289.6 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $191.9 million , primarily related to seasonality and increases in business volumes. Our bookings and revenues are generally higher in the third quarter of the year than in the fourth quarter of the year which typically results in higher accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses at September 30 compared to December 31. Deferred merchant bookings decreased by $50.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to the seasonality of our agoda.com business, which experiences the highest levels of booking and travel consumption in the first and fourth quarters combined with an initiative which allows their customers to pay near the time of travel rather than at the time of making a reservation. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was $2.2 billion , resulting from net income of $2.0 billion and a favorable impact of $368.1 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $178.9 million . For the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , accounts receivable increased $353.4 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $209.6 million . The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to seasonality and increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes and deferred income taxes. Net cash used in investing activities was $2.7 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 were affected by net purchases of investments of $2.4 billion , $135.7 million used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, partially offset by net proceeds of $5.2 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts. Net cash used in investing activities was $282 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 were affected by $2.5 billion used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and net payments of $80.3 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts, mostly offset by net sales of investments of $2.4 billion . Cash invested in purchase of property and equipment was $126.6 million and $90.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Net cash used in financing activities was $709.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 primarily consisted of treasury stock purchases of $2.3 billion , payments of $147.6 million related to the conversion of Senior Notes, payment of $13.5 million related to debt issuance cost and payment of $10.7 million related to the settlement of the acquisition-date estimated contingent liability related to an acquisition, partially offset by the total proceeds of $1.6 billion from the issuance of Senior Notes, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $90.9 million and the exercise of employee stock options of $19.1 million . Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.9 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . The cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 primarily consisted of total proceeds of $2.3 billion from the issuance of Convertible Senior Notes and Euro denominated Senior Notes, the exercise of employee stock options of $12.4 million and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $14.1 million , partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $245.5 million and payments of $121.9 million related to the conversion of senior notes. Contingencies A number of U.S. jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against online travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). In addition, a number of U.S. states, counties and municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes. To date, the majority of taxing jurisdictions in which we facilitate the making of travel reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on our travel services. With respect to 45 jurisdictions that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect taxes from us only on a prospective basis. For additional information, see Note 12 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Adverse application of U.S. state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations " in this Quarterly Report. As a result of this litigation and other attempts by U.S. jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual for the potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes in the amount of approximately $27 million at September 30, 2015 and $52 million at December 31, 2014 . A March 2015 ruling by the Hawaii Supreme Court significantly reduced the Company's (and other OTCs') liability and as a result the Company reduced its accrual for travel transaction taxes (including estimated interest and penalties) by $16.4 million with a corresponding reduction to cost of revenues in the first quarter of 2015. The accrual is based on our estimate of the probable cost of resolving these issues. Our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded. An estimate for a reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount accrued cannot be reasonably made. If we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash we believe that it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. French tax authorities have been conducting an audit of the years 2006 through 2012 to determine whether we are in compliance with our tax obligations in France, and we currently expect to receive a formal assessment in the fourth quarter of 2015. While we believe that we have been, and continue to be, in compliance with French tax law, as a result of the audit we expect the French tax authorities to claim that Booking.com has a permanent establishment in France and seek to recover unpaid income taxes and VAT of approximately 350 million Euros, the majority of which would represent penalties and interest. We intend to contest any such assessment. If we are unable to resolve the matter with the French authorities, we would expect to challenge the assessment in the French courts. In order to contest the assessment in court, we would be required to pay, upfront, the full amount of any such assessment, though any such payment would not constitute an admission by us that we owe the taxes. French authorities may decide to also audit subsequent tax years, which could result in additional assessments. In general, governments in the United States and Europe are increasingly focused on ways to increase tax revenues, which has contributed to an increase in audit activity and harsher stances taken by tax authorities. Any such additional taxes or other assessments may be in excess of our current tax provisions or may require us to modify our business practices in order to reduce our exposure to additional taxes going forward, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2015 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Sections of this Form 10-Q including, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above and the Risk Factors contained in Part II Item 1A hereof, contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Part II Item 1A, Risk Factors. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 , and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. 46