Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, and the Section entitled Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements in this Form 10-Q. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements, this discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Risk Factors. Overview We are a leading online travel company that offers our customers hotel room reservations at over 170,000 hotels worldwide through the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands. We offer international car rental reservation services through TravelJigsaw, which we acquired in May 2010. In the United States, we also offer our customers car rental reservations, airline tickets, vacation packages, cruises and destination services. We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include the Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw companies. Our principal goal is to continue to grow our position as the leading worldwide online hotel reservation service, measured by room nights booked. Our business is driven primarily by international results. During the year ended December 31, 2010, our international business (the significant majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 69% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately 82% of our consolidated operating income. Given that the business of our international operations is primarily comprised of hotel reservation services, commissions earned in connection with the reservation of hotel room nights represents a substantial majority of our gross profit. Our priceline.com brand in the U.S. offers merchant Name Your Own Price travel services (sometimes referred to as opaque travel services), which are recorded in revenue on a gross basis and have associated cost of revenue. Retail, or price-disclosed, travel services offered by both our U.S. and international brands are recorded in revenue on a net basis and have no associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between Name Your Own Price and retail travel services. Gross profit reflects the net margin earned for both our Name Your Own Price and retail travel services. Consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business. At present, we derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from price-disclosed hotel room reservations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our Name Your Own Price hotel room reservation, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as our vacation packages service; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our price-disclosed merchant hotel room and rental car reservation services; Global distribution system (GDS) reservation booking fees related to both our Name Your Own Price airline ticket, hotel room reservation and rental car services, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car services; and Other gross profit derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites. Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in the number of hotel room night reservations booked through our hotel reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the high growth of travel overall in emerging 27 Table of Contents markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build hotel supply, content and distribution and to improve the customer experience on our websites. We experienced particularly strong growth in the first quarter of 2011, which reflected strong performance in our core markets and the contribution of Asia-Pacific and South America, which experience peak seasonal travel in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which is a seasonal low point for our other more mature markets. We expect our year-over-year room night reservation growth rate for the second quarter of 2011 to decelerate as compared to the first quarter 2011 year-over-year growth rate. Given the sheer size of our hotel reservation business, we believe it is highly likely that our year-over-year growth rates will generally decelerate on a quarterly sequential basis. Economic conditions in general, and hotel occupancy rates (a common metric that measures hotel customer usage) and average daily rates (ADRs) in particular, generally improved throughout 2010 which will result in progressively more challenging year over year quarterly comparisons as we proceed through 2011. In addition, many governments around the world, including the U.S. government, are operating at very large financial deficits. Disruptions in the economies of such countries could cause, contribute to or be indicative of, deteriorating macro-economic conditions. Furthermore, governmental austerity measures aimed at reducing deficits could impair the economic recovery and adversely affect travel demand. Finally, higher oil prices are contributing to higher airline ticket prices and are likely to adversely impact consumer discretionary funds available to be spent on travel. Large, established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating and intend to further create inroads into online travel, both in the U.S. and internationally. For example, the U.S. Department of Justice recently approved Googles acquisition of ITA Software, Inc., a major flight information software company, which will allow Google to pursue the creation of new flight search tools which will enable users to find fares, schedules and availability directly on Google. Google has also invested in HomeAway, a vacation home rental service. In addition, Google has launched a travel meta-search site to show searchers specific hotels and rates in addition to text advertisements, and Microsoft has launched Bing Travel , a meta-search site, which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online and predicts the best time to purchase them. Meta-search sites leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the searchers specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers. Some meta-search sites, such as Kayak.com, which recently began offering its users the ability to purchase tickets directly on its website, may evolve into more traditional online travel sites with ticket-booking capability. These initiatives, among others, illustrate Googles and Bings clear intention to more directly appeal to travel consumers by showing consumers more detailed travel search results, including specific information for travelers own itineraries, which could lead to suppliers or others gaining a larger share of Googles or Bings traffic or may ultimately lead to search engines maintaining transactions within their own websites. If Google, as the single largest search engine in the world, or Bing, or other leading search engines refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, it could result in, among other things, more competition from supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. International Trends . The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet adoption rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the United States. However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. In addition, the base of hotel suppliers in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. Our growth has primarily been generated by our international hotel reservation service brands, Booking.com and Agoda. Booking.com, our most significant brand, currently includes over 135,000 hotels as compared to about 86,000 hotels last year. These hotels have been added in Booking.coms core European market and geographic locations we have entered more recently, including North America, Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our 28 Table of Contents business from a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the top online hotel reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. As our international operations have become significant contributors to our results and international hotel bookings have become of increased importance to our earnings, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in certain of our operating expenses and other financial metrics. For example, because Booking.com and Agoda utilize online search and affiliate marketing as the principal means of generating traffic to their websites, our online advertising expense has increased significantly over recent years, a trend we expect to continue throughout 2011. In addition, and as discussed in more detail below, we have seen the effects of seasonal fluctuations on our operating results change as a result of different revenue recognition policies that apply to our price-disclosed services (including our international hotel service) as compared to our Name Your Own Price services. Another impact of the growing importance of Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw is our increased exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. Because we are conducting a significant and growing portion of our business outside the United States and are reporting our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation. Our international operations contributed approximately $389.1 million to our revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2011, which compares to $215.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 (year-over-year growth of approximately 80%). Revenue attributable to our international operations increased on a local currency basis by approximately 79% in the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010. Over the past several years, there has been significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro and the U.S. dollar. Over the past year, Greece, Ireland, Portugal and certain other European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt had difficulty refinancing that debt and central bank intervention was required, causing significant devaluation of the Euro relative to other currencies, including the U.S. Dollar, and concerns that sovereign defaults could lead to devaluation or abandonment of the common currency. Sovereign debt issues could lead to significant, and potentially longer-term, devaluation of the Euro against the U.S. Dollar. More recently, the European Central Bank raised its key lending rate for the first time in three years, contributing to a strengthening of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar. A strengthening of the Euro benefits our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars, while a weakening of the Euro would adversely impact our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars. We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results. Such derivative instruments are short term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuation that could impact our foreign currency denominated gross bookings, revenue or gross profit. See Note 5 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts. Domestic Trends . Competition in domestic online travel remains intense and traditional online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantage. In particular, the competition to provide opaque hotel services to consumers, an area in which priceline.com has been a leader, has become more intense. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2010, Expedia began making opaque hotel room reservations available on its principal website under the name Expedia Unpublished Rates and has been supporting the initiative with a national television advertising campaign. In addition, in 2009, Travelocity launched an opaque price-disclosed hotel booking service that allows customers to book rooms at a discount. As with our Name Your Own Price hotel booking service, for these services, the name of the hotel is not disclosed until after purchase. We believe these new offerings, in particular Expedia Unpublished Rates, have impacted consumer demand for our opaque hotel service. If Expedia or Travelocity are successful in growing their opaque hotel service, we may have less consumer demand for our opaque hotel service over time and we are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. As a result, our share of the discount hotel market in the U.S. could decrease. 29 Table of Contents We believe that for a number of reasons, including the recent significant year-over-year increase in retail airfares, consumers are engaging in more shopping behavior before making a travel purchase than they engaged in previously. Increased shopping behavior reduces our advertising efficiency and effectiveness as traffic obtained through online advertising becomes less likely to result in a purchase on our web site. Some travel suppliers are encouraging third-party travel intermediaries, such as us, to develop technology to bypass the traditional GDSs, such as enabling direct connections to the travel suppliers or using alternative global distribution methods. For example, during 2010, we began implementation of direct connection capability with American Airlines. In December 2010, American terminated its participation in the Orbitz service and withdrew its fares from the Orbitz website, and, in a dispute with American Airlines, Expedia removed American content from its site as its contract with American was set to expire on December 31, 2010. In April 2011, Expedia and American announced that American would make content available through Expedia and Expedia would establish direct connection capability with American. This is consistent with an effort on the part of American Airlines, and the airline industry in general, to reduce distribution costs and could be indicative of the airlines in general becoming more aggressive in requiring online travel agents to implement direct connections. Development and implementation of the technology to enable additional direct connections to travel suppliers could cause us to incur additional operating expenses, increase the frequency/duration of system problems and delay other projects. In addition, any additional migration toward direct connections would reduce the compensation we receive from GDSs. Many current agreements between major U.S. airlines and major GDSs are due to expire during or at the end of 2011. It is unclear whether and to what extent any new agreement (or extension or renewal of any existing agreement) between any major U.S. airline and any major GDS will enable GDS subscribers, such as us, equal access to the fares, inventory and content provided by such carrier through the GDS. Furthermore, it is possible that a dispute between an airline and a GDS could lead to an airline removing its fares from the GDS. Despite the fact that such a dispute may not involve us, our business could be adversely affected if we are denied access to airfares in a major GDS. While demand for online travel services in the U.S. continues to experience annualized growth, we believe that the domestic market share of third-party distributors, like priceline.com, has declined over the last several years and that the growth of the domestic online market for travel services has slowed. We believe the decline in market share is attributable, in part, to (1) a concerted initiative by travel suppliers to direct customers to their own websites in an effort to reduce distribution expenses and establish more direct control over their pricing, and (2) a price advantage that suppliers may have as they generally do not charge a processing fee. Domestic airlines have reduced capacity and increased fares since the latter part of 2009. In addition, the threat of carrier bankruptcies and the emerging prospect of industry consolidation, as evidenced by the mergers of United Air Lines with Continental Airlines; Delta Air Lines with Northwest Airlines; and AirTran with Southwest Airlines, could lead to additional decreases in capacity and further reduce the amount of airline tickets available to us. Significant increases in average airfares in 2010 and thus far in 2011 may adversely impact travel demand. Reduced airline capacity and demand negatively impact our priceline.com air business, which in turn has negative repercussions on our priceline.com hotel and rental car businesses. Recent decreases in rental car fleets have led to decreases in rental car availability, which has negatively impacted our Name Your Own Price rental car service. In addition, Avis is currently in discussions to acquire the Dollar-Thrifty Automotive Group. The merger or acquisition of the Dollar-Thrifty Automotive Group by Avis or another rental car company could result in a decrease of rental car reservations available to our rental car service. As a result of these challenges, we experienced a decline in Name Your Own Price airline tickets and rental car days during the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. Overall, we were able to obtain improved access to discounted airline tickets during the three months ended March 31, 2011, but still encountered challenges in rental car availability. The crisis in Japan resulting from the recent earthquake and tsunami is expected to result in reduced vehicle production leading to further strain on rental car companies fleets and increased retail rental car rates. Nevertheless, we continue to 30 Table of Contents believe that the market for domestic online travel services is an attractive market with continued opportunity for growth. We believe that our success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain profitability, primarily from our hotel business, to continue to promote the Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw brands internationally and the priceline.com brand in the United States, and, over time, to offer other travel services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, higher oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions (such as the April 2010 eruption of a volcano in Iceland), travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related accidents or the withdrawal from our system of a major hotel supplier or airline, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and impair our ability to effectively implement all or some of the initiatives described above. For example, in early 2011, Japan was struck by a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency. Japan is an important source of travel demand for Agoda, and these crises have had an adverse impact on travel demand originating in Japan. In addition, in early 2010, civil unrest in Thailand, a key market for our Agoda business and the Asian business of Booking.com, negatively impacted booking volumes in this market at the time. Clashes involving Thai security forces, anti-government demonstrators and groups supporting the government resulted in violence in various locations in Bangkok, causing the temporary relocation of Agodas Thailand-based operations. Thai government elections currently anticipated in June 2011 could lead to additional civil unrest. Thailand has experienced disruptive civil unrest in prior years as well and continued or future civil or political unrest could further disrupt Agodas Thailand-based business and operations. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve operating results. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to improve volume and sustain gross margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will sustain revenue growth and profitability. Seasonality . A meaningful amount of retail gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in the Northern Hemisphere. However, we will not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs. From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which bookings are generated. As a result, we experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for the year for our North American and European businesses. However, we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters. Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 Operating Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking activity generated by our travel services. Specifically, reservations of hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units purchased by our customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers, net of 31 Table of Contents cancellations, and is widely used in the travel business. International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings through our international brands and operations, and domestic gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings through our domestic brands and operations, in each case without regard to the location of the travel or the customer purchasing the travel. Gross bookings resulting from hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our domestic and international operations for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Change Domestic $ 1,129 million $ 989 million 14.1 % International 3,536 million 1,975 million 79.0 % Total $ 4,665 million $ 2,965 million 57.3 % Gross bookings increased by 57.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, principally due to 55.8% growth in hotel room night reservations. The 79.0% increase in international gross bookings was principally attributable to growth in international hotel room night reservations for our Booking.com and Agoda businesses (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 78%). International gross bookings include $96 million from TravelJigsaw, which was acquired in May 2010. Domestic gross bookings increased by 14.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to growth in price-disclosed hotel room night reservations, airline tickets booked, which was compounded by an increase in average fares, and Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations. Gross bookings resulting from hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our agency and merchant models for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Change Agency $ 3,781 million $ 2,374 million 59.3 % Merchant 884 million 591 million 49.5 % Total $ 4,665 million $ 2,965 million 57.3 % Agency gross bookings increased 59.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to growth in hotel room night reservations for Booking.com. Our U.S. business also contributed growth in reservations of price-disclosed hotel room nights, airline tickets and rental car days. Our U.S. agency hotel room reservations benefited from the integration of U.S. hotels from the Booking.com extranet into the priceline.com website. Merchant gross bookings increased 49.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, due to an increase in the sale of Agoda and priceline.com-branded price-disclosed and Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations, Name Your Own Price airline tickets and the inclusion of TravelJigsaw since its acquisition in May 2010. Three Months Ended Hotel Room Nights Rental Car Days Airline Tickets March 31, 2011 31.2 million 4.9 million 1.6 million March 31, 2010 20.0 million 3.0 million 1.5 million 32 Table of Contents Hotel room night reservations increased by 55.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, due primarily to an increase in Booking.com, Agoda and priceline.com price-disclosed and Name Your Own Price room night reservations. Rental car day reservations increased by 64.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, due primarily to the inclusion of rental car day reservations for TravelJigsaw, which we acquired in May 2010, as well as an increase in priceline.com price-disclosed rental car days in the U.S. Rental car day reservations for our Name Your Own Price service in the U.S. slightly decreased due to limited availability of discounted rental car supply resulting from tight fleet levels maintained by our rental car suppliers. Airline ticket reservations increased by 2.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, due to an increase in the sale of Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservations, partially offset by a slight decline in price-disclosed airline ticket reservations, which benefited from the absence of American Airlines on the Expedia and Orbitz websites during the quarter. Revenues Merchant revenues are derived from transactions where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customers credit card for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations, rental cars and airline tickets and price-disclosed vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in connection with (a) the hotel room reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service in the U.S. and at Agoda, and (b) the rental car reservations provided through our merchant semi-opaque rental car service at TravelJigsaw (which allows customers to see the price, car type and location of the reservation prior to purchase, but not the identity of the supplier); (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations, airline tickets and rental cars and merchant price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, customer processing fees and GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Other revenues are derived primarily from advertising on our websites. Three Months Ended March 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Merchant Revenues $ 454,804 $ 368,265 23.5 % Agency Revenues 351,422 213,242 64.8 % Other Revenues 3,094 2,887 7.2 % Total Revenues $ 809,320 $ 584,394 38.5 % 33 Table of Contents Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2011 increased 23.5% compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to increases in Agoda price-disclosed hotel room night reservations and Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations and airline tickets, the inclusion of Travel Jigsaw since its acquisition in May 2010 and an increase in priceline.com price-disclosed hotel room night reservations. Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2011 increased 64.8% compared to the same period in 2010, primarily as a result of growth in our Booking.com business. Our U.S. agency hotel room reservations benefited from the integration of U.S. hotels from the Booking.com extranet into the priceline.com website. Other Revenues Other revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2011 consisted primarily of advertising. Other revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2011 increased 7.2% compared to the same period in 2010 due to increased traffic on our web sites. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Cost of Revenues $ 303,512 $ 265,278 14.4 % % of Merchant Revenues 66.7 % 72.0 % Cost of Revenues For the three months ended March 31, 2011, cost of revenues consisted primarily of charges from the suppliers for: (1) the cost of Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations, net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of Name Your Own Price rental cars, net of applicable taxes; and (3) the cost of Name Your Own Price airline tickets, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets. Cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2011 increased by 14.4% compared to the same period in 2010, due primarily to the increase in Name Your Own Price revenues discussed above. Merchant price-disclosed hotel and rental car revenues are recorded in merchant revenues net of the amounts paid to suppliers and therefore, there is no associated cost of revenues for merchant price-disclosed revenues. Cost of revenues as a percentage of their associated merchant revenues decreased primarily due to the increase in merchant price-disclosed revenues and the addition of TravelJigsaw merchant revenue, all of which are recorded on a net basis. Agency revenues are recorded at their net amount, which are amounts received less amounts paid to suppliers, if any, and therefore, there are no costs of agency revenues. 34 Table of Contents Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Gross Profit $ 505,808 $ 319,116 58.5 % Gross Margin 62.5 % 54.6 % Total gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2011 increased by 58.5% compared to the same period in 2010, primarily as a result of increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, because Name Your Own Price revenues, which are recorded gross with a corresponding cost of revenue, represented a smaller percentage of total revenues compared to retail, price-disclosed revenues which are primarily recorded net with no corresponding cost of revenues. Because Name Your Own Price transactions are reported gross and retail transactions are primarily recorded on a net basis, we believe that gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $388.2 million of our gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2011, which compares to approximately $214.9 million for the same period in 2010. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 79% in the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010. Operating Expenses Advertising Three Months Ended March 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Offline Advertising $ 11,614 $ 11,788 (1.5 )% % of Total Gross Profit 2.3 % 3.7 % Online Advertising $ 185,108 $ 113,109 63.7 % % of Total Gross Profit 36.6 % 35.4 % Offline advertising expenses consist primarily of: (1) the expenses associated with domestic television, print and radio advertising; and (2) the cost for creative talent, production costs and agency fees for television, print and radio advertising. For the three months ended March 31, 2011, offline advertising expenses decreased modestly compared to the same period in 2010 due to lower creative talent costs and decreased print advertising, partially offset by higher TV advertising. Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) affiliate programs; (3) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (4) e-mail campaigns. For the three months ended March 31, 2011, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2010, primarily to support increased hotel room night reservations for Booking.com, Agoda and priceline.com, as well as the inclusion of online advertising for TravelJigsaw since its acquisition in May 2010. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit increased for the three months ended March 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. The increase is driven primarily by brand mix rather than a change in the fundamental efficiency of our online advertising by brand. Our international businesses are growing faster than our priceline.com business in the U.S., and spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. In addition, online advertising as a percentage of gross profit is typically at a seasonal high point in the first quarter, as customers make reservations in the first quarter for spring and summer travel. We recognize the advertising expense at the time of booking, but 35 Table of Contents recognize the gross profit for price-disclosed reservations when the travel is completed. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Sales and Marketing $ 34,778 $ 24,113 44.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 6.9 % 7.6 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables. For the three months ended March 31, 2011, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2010, primarily due to increased gross booking volumes. Costs associated with merchant bookings for our U.S. business is the largest component of sales and marketing expense, and therefore, growth in sales and marketing expense will more closely correlate with growth in our domestic merchant gross profit than with our total gross profit. Our domestic merchant gross profit grew more slowly than our total gross profit, which benefited from the high growth in our international agency business, and as a result, sales and marketing expense as a percentage of gross profit declined year-over-year. Personnel Three Months Ended March 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Personnel $ 75,221 $ 49,777 51.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 14.9 % 15.6 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses, payroll taxes, employee health benefits and stock-based compensation. For the three months ended March 31, 2011, personnel expenses increased over the same period in 2010, due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our business and the inclusion of TravelJigsaw since its acquisition in May 2010. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $14.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011, and $11.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change General and Administrative $ 25,879 $ 18,033 43.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 5.1 % 5.7 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses; (2) occupancy expenses; and (3) personnel related expenses such as recruiting, training and 36 Table of Contents travel expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended March 31, 2011, over the same period in 2010, due to higher occupancy and personnel related expenses to support growth in our international operations and the inclusion of TravelJigsaw since its acquisition in May 2010. Information Technology Three Months Ended March 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Information Technology $ 6,670 $ 4,608 44.7 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.3 % 1.4 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) system maintenance and software license fees; (2) outsourced data center costs relating to our domestic and international data centers; (3) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our Internet sites; and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the three months ended March 31, 2011, information technology expenses was increased over the same period in 2010, primarily due to growth in our worldwide operations. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 12,479 $ 9,779 27.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.5 % 3.1 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) amortization of internally developed and purchased software, (3) depreciation of computer equipment; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office equipment and furniture and fixtures. For the three months ended March 31, 2011, depreciation and amortization expense increased from the same period in 2010, primarily due to acquisition-related amortization in connection with our acquisition of TravelJigsaw in May 2010. Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended March 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Interest Income $ 1,421 $ 855 66.2 % Interest Expense (7,715 ) (4,806 ) 60.5 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (7,073 ) (3,130 ) 126.0 % Total Other Income (Expense) $ (13,367 ) $ (7,081 ) 88.8 % 37 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2011, interest income on cash and marketable securities increased over the same period in 2010, principally due to an increase in the average balance invested. Interest expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2011, as compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to an increase in the average debt outstanding. Foreign currency transactions and other includes foreign exchange loss of $1.7 million and gain of $2.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to foreign exchange derivative contracts. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including fees on foreign exchange transactions, of $5.4 million were recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to $0.5 million of losses for the three months ended March 31, 2010. The early conversion of convertible debt resulted in a loss of $5.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010. Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Income Tax Expense $ 36,679 $ 26,953 36.1 % Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 was 26.1% and 33.3%, respectively. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2011 differs from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%, principally due to lower foreign tax rates. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2011 is lower compared to the same period in 2010 due primarily to a higher percentage of foreign income which is taxed at lower rates. Due to our domestic net operating loss carryforwards, we do not expect to make payments on our U.S. income, except for U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our foreign income. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income at higher rates than the U.S. over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international business generates an increasing share of our pretax income. Effective January 1, 2010, the Netherlands modified its corporate income tax law related to income generated from qualifying innovative activities (the Innovation Box Tax). Earnings that qualify for the Innovation Box Tax will effectively be taxed at the rate of 5% rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25.0% (25.5% in 2010). Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities in February 2011 confirming that a portion of its earnings (qualifying earnings) is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment. The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2013 (the Initial Period). In this ruling, the Dutch tax authorities require that the Innovation Box Tax benefit be phased in over a multi-year period. The Innovation Box Tax did not have a material impact on our 2010 results. In 2011, we expect the impact of the Innovation Box Tax to reduce our consolidated income tax rate by approximately one to two percentage points. The amount of qualifying earnings expressed as a percentage of the total pretax earnings in the Netherlands will vary depending upon the level of total pretax earnings that is achieved in any given year. In order to be eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment, Booking.com must, among other things, apply for and obtain a research and development (R&D) certificate from a Dutch governmental agency every six months confirming that the activities that Booking.com intends to be engaged in over the subsequent six month period are innovative. Should Booking.com fail to secure such a certificate in any such period for example, because the governmental agency does not view Booking.coms new or anticipated activities as innovative or should this agency determine that the activities contemplated to be performed in a prior period were not performed as contemplated or did not comply with the agencys requirements, Booking.com may lose its certificate and, as a result, the Innovation Box Tax benefit may be reduced or eliminated. After the Initial Period, Booking.com intends to reapply for continued Innovation Box Tax treatment for future periods. There can be no assurance that Booking.coms application will be accepted, or that the amount of 38 Table of Contents qualifying earnings or applicable tax rates will not be reduced at that time. In addition, there can be no assurance that the tax law will not change in 2011 and/or future years resulting in a reduction or elimination of the tax benefit. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Three Months Ended March 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests $ (777 ) n/a n/a Noncontrolling interests for the three months ended March 31, 2011, represents the proportionate share of the net income of TravelJigsaw Holdings Limited applicable to the noncontrolling interests (refer to Note 11 of the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2011, we had $1.7 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Approximately $0.9 billion of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are held by our international subsidiaries and are denominated primarily in Euros and, to a lesser extent, in British Pound Sterling. We currently intend to permanently reinvest this cash in our international operations. We could not repatriate this cash without incurring additional tax liability in the U.S. Cash equivalents and short-term investments are primarily comprised of highly liquid, investment-grade debt securities. As of March 31, 2011, we have a remaining authorization from our Board of Directors to repurchase $459.2 million of our common stock. We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from our customers and then we pay most of our suppliers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant swings in deferred merchant bookings and supplier payables depending on the absolute level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. This can cause volatility in working capital levels and impact cash balances more or less than our operating income would indicate. Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2011, was $276.2 million, resulting from net income of $104.0 million, net favorable changes in working capital of $128.8 million, and a net favorable impact of $43.4 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows. Non-cash items include deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, primarily from acquisition-related intangible assets, and amortization of debt discount. Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased $177.8 million, principally due to an accrual of approximately $124 million for withholding taxes paid in April 2011 for stock-based awards that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2011 combined with favorable impacts related to increases in business volume, partially offset by a reduction in compensation payable as a result of 2010 bonuses being paid in the first quarter of 2011. Accounts receivable increased $56.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011, primarily related to increases in business volume. Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2010, was $104.7 million, resulting from net income of $53.9 million, net favorable changes in working capital of $6.5 million, and a net favorable impact of $44.3 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows. Non-cash items include deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, primarily from acquisition-related intangible assets, amortization of debt discount and loss on conversions of our convertible notes. The changes in working capital for the three months ended March 31, 2010, were related to a $23.7 million increase in accounts 39 Table of Contents payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, partially offset by a $20.2 million increase in accounts receivable. The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volume. Net cash provided by investing activities was $55.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011. Investing activities were affected by a $145.6 million net sale of marketable securities, partially offset by payments of $66.2 million for acquisitions, principally related to contingent consideration associated with the 2007 acquisition of Agoda, and $16.0 million paid to settle derivative contracts. Net cash used in investing activities was $311.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010. Investing activities were affected by a $313.8 million net purchase of marketable securities and a payment of $2.5 million for additional contingent consideration associated with an online advertising company acquired in 2007, partially offset by $9.7 million received to settle derivative contracts. Cash invested in purchases of property and equipment was $8.3 million and $4.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $147.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The cash used in financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2011 was primarily related to $157.3 million of treasury stock purchases, partially offset by $9.5 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and $0.6 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $359.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010. The cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2010 was primarily related to proceeds from the issuance of convertible senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $575.0 million, $12.6 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and $1.7 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, partially offset by $98.4 million of principal paid upon the conversion of senior notes, $118.9 million of treasury stock purchases and $12.9 million of debt issuance costs. In September 2007, we entered into a $175.0 million five-year committed revolving credit facility with a group of lenders, which is secured, subject to certain exceptions, by a first-priority security interest on substantially all of our assets and related intangible assets located in the United States. In addition, our obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by substantially all of the assets and related intangible assets of our material direct and indirect domestic and foreign subsidiaries. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Associations prime lending rate and (b) the federal funds rate plus of 1%, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.25% to 0.75%; or at an adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.25% to 1.75%. Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.25% to 0.375%. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $50.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans, which are available in U.S. Dollars, Euros, Pound Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, there were no borrowings outstanding under the facility and we had issued approximately $1.6 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit facility at each of those dates. Since the contingent conversion threshold for the 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 was exceeded as of March 31, 2011, these notes are convertible at the option of the holders. If the holders elect to convert, we will be required to pay the aggregate principal amount in cash and we will deliver cash or shares of common stock, at our option, for the conversion value in excess of the aggregate principal amount. We would likely fund our conversion obligations with cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, if during that period or thereafter, we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plan, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted. There are no assurances that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, that revenue growth or sustained profitability will be realized or that future borrowings or equity sales will be available in amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies or repay our indebtedness. 40 Table of Contents Contingencies A number of jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against us related to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax). In addition, a number of municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes. To date, the majority of taxing jurisdictions in which we facilitate the making of hotel room reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on our U.S. merchant hotel business. With respect to jurisdictions that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect taxes from us only on a prospective basis. See Note 13 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and proceedings, and Risk Factors Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operation in this Quarterly Report. We are vigorously defending against these claims and proceedings. However, litigation is subject to uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these pending or future cases and proceedings. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of these actions or proceedings could result in substantial liabilities for past and/or future bookings, including, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows in any given operating period. Also, there have been, and will continue to be, ongoing costs associated with defending our position in pending and any future cases or proceedings. To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that we have a tax collection responsibility, or we determine that we have one, with respect to future transactions, we may collect any such additional tax obligations from our customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room reservations to our customers and, consequently, could make our hotels services less competitive (i.e., versus the websites of other online travel companies or hotel company websites) and reduce hotel reservation transactions; alternatively, we could choose to reduce the compensation for our services on merchant hotel transactions. Either step could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As a result of this litigation and other attempts by jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established a reserve which amounted to approximately $28 million and $26 million as of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The reserve is based on our reasonable estimate, and the ultimate resolution of these issues may be less or greater than the liabilities recorded. We believe that even if we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash, it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2011, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 41 Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Sections of this Form 10-Q including, in particular, our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above, contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information and current foreign currency exchange rates. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations or similar expressions including, without limitation, may, will, should, could, expects, does not currently expect, plans, anticipates, intends, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, targets, or continue, reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The factors described below in the section entitled Risk Factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Quarterly Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw face risks related to their growth rate and expansion, and subject us to risks that can adversely affect our operating results. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the United States. Our international operations include the Netherlands-based hotel reservation service Booking.com, the Thailand-based hotel reservation service Agoda and the U.K.-based rental car reservation service TravelJigsaw. Each year since 2007, our international operations achieved significant year-over-year growth in their gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers) and hotel room night reservations. This growth rate has contributed significantly to our growth in revenue, gross profit and earnings per share. Over time, Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw will experience a decline in their growth rate as the absolute level of their gross bookings and unit sales grow larger. Other factors may also slow the growth rates of our international operations, including, for example, worldwide economic conditions, any strengthening of the U.S. Dollar versus the Euro, declines in hotel average daily rates (ADRs), increases in cancellations, travel market conditions and the competitiveness of the market. A decline in the growth rates of our international operations could have a negative impact on our future revenue and earnings per share growth rates and, as a consequence, our stock price. The strategy of Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw involves rapid expansion into regions around the world, including Europe, Asia-Pacific, North America, South America and elsewhere, many of which have different customs, different levels of customer acceptance of the Internet and different legislation, regulatory environments, tax laws and levels of political stability. In addition, compliance with foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences. If Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw are unsuccessful in rapidly expanding into other countries, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. 42 Table of Contents We are dependent on the travel industry. Our financial prospects are significantly dependent upon our sale of travel services. Travel, including hotel room reservations, rental car reservations and airline tickets, is dependent on discretionary spending levels. As a result, sales of travel services tend to decline during general economic downturns and recessions. Accordingly, the recent worldwide recession led to a weakening in the fundamental demand for our services and an increase in the number of customers who cancelled existing travel reservations with us. In addition, unforeseen events beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, higher oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions (such as the April 2010 eruption of a volcano in Iceland), travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related accidents or the withdrawal from our system of a major hotel supplier or airline, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. For example, in early 2011, Japan was struck by a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency. Japan is an important source of travel demand for Agoda, and these crises have had an adverse impact on travel demand originating in Japan. If Japanese travel demand does not recover Agodas business will be further adversely impacted. In addition, in early 2010, civil unrest in Thailand, a key market for our Agoda business and the Asian business of Booking.com, negatively impacted booking volumes in this market at the time. Clashes involving Thai security forces, anti-government demonstrators and groups supporting the government resulted in violence in various locations in Bangkok, causing the temporary relocation of Agodas Thailand-based operations. Thai government elections currently anticipated in June 2011 could lead to additional civil unrest. Thailand has experienced disruptive civil unrest in prior years as well and continued or future civil or political unrest could further disrupt Agodas Thailand-based business and operations. In addition, work stoppages or labor unrest at any of the major airlines could materially adversely affect the airline industry and, as a consequence, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 43 Table of Contents We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates . As a result of the growth of Booking.com and Agoda, and the acquisition of TravelJigsaw, we are conducting a significant portion of our business outside the United States and are reporting our results in U.S. Dollars. As a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation. In addition, with respect to our international merchant bookings, because there is a difference in the timing of when we receive payment from a customer (up front) and when we pay the travel supplier (often after the hotel stay or rental car pickup), we have currency exchange exposure on these transactions. Our international operations contributed approximately $389.1 million to our revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2011, which compares to $215.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 (year-over-year growth of approximately 80%). Revenue attributable to our international operations increased on a local currency basis by approximately 79% in the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010. Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw also face foreign exchange risk as their foreign-denominated revenues, expenses, receivables and payables are translated into their respective functional currencies. Over the past several years, there has been significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro and the U.S. dollar. Over the past year, Greece, Ireland, Portugal and certain other European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt had difficulty refinancing that debt and central bank intervention was required, causing significant devaluation of the Euro relative to other currencies, including the U.S. Dollar, and concerns that sovereign defaults could lead to devaluation or abandonment of the common currency. Sovereign debt issues could lead to significant, and potentially longer-term, devaluation of the Euro against the U.S. Dollar. More recently, the European Central Bank raised its key lending rate for the first time in three years, contributing to a strengthening of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar. A strengthening of the Euro benefits our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars, while a weakening of the Euro would adversely impact our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars. Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services we offer. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively low cost. We may not be able to effectively compete with industry conglomerates such as Expedia, Google or Microsoft, each of which may have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do. We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With respect to our travel services, these competitors include, but are not limited to: Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com, Hotwire and Venere, which are owned by Expedia; Travelocity, lastminute.com and Zuji, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are currently owned by Orbitz Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms owned by Tui Travel; and Gullivers, octopustravel, Superbreak, hotel.de, Hotel Reservation Service, AutoEurope, Holiday Auto, Car Trawler, Ctrip, MakeMyTrip, Rakuten and Wotif; travel suppliers such as airlines, hotel companies and rental car companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive business; large online portal, social networking, group buying and search companies, such as Google, Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel), Bing (including Bing Travel), Facebook and Groupon; 44 Table of Contents traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators; online travel search sites such as Kayak.com, Trivago.com, Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com and HotelsCombined (each sometimes referred to as meta-search sites) and travel research sites that have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo and Cheapflights.com; and operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo, Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre. Competition in domestic online travel remains intense and traditional online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantage. In particular, the competition to provide opaque hotel services, an area in which priceline.com has been a leader, has become more intense. In opaque hotel transactions, a consumer guarantees payment for a hotel reservation prior to knowing the brand of the hotel. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2010, Expedia began making opaque hotel room reservations available on its principal website under the name Expedia Unpublished Rates and has been supporting the initiative with a national television advertising campaign. In addition, in 2009, Travelocity launched an opaque price-disclosed hotel booking service that allows customers to book rooms at a discount. As with our Name Your Own Price hotel booking service, for these services, the name of the hotel is not disclosed until after purchase. We believe these new offerings, in particular Expedia Unpublished Rates, have impacted consumer demand for our opaque hotel service. If Expedia or Travelocity are successful in growing their opaque hotel service, we may have less consumer demand for our opaque hotel service over time and we are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. As a result, our share of the discount hotel market in the U.S. could decrease. Online travel companies have also offered consumers value features such as, without limitation, the elimination and/or reduction of processing fees, the adoption of best price guarantees and the waiver of cancellation and change fees. The elimination of processing fees on retail airline tickets by us and our major competitors, coupled with the recent significant year over year increases in retail air fares, has led consumers to engage in increased shopping behavior before making a purchase. Increased shopping behavior reduces our advertising efficiency and effectiveness as traffic obtained through online advertising becomes less likely to result in a purchase on our web site. Large, established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating and intend to further create inroads into online travel, both in the U.S. and internationally. For example, the U.S. Department of Justice recently approved Googles acquisition of ITA Software, Inc., a major flight information software company, which will allow Google to pursue the creation of new flight search tools which will enable users to find fares, schedules and availability directly on Google. Google has also invested in HomeAway, a vacation home rental service. In addition, Google has launched a travel meta-search site to show searchers specific hotels and rates in addition to text advertisements, and Microsoft has launched Bing Travel , a meta-search site, which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online and predicts the best time to purchase them. Meta-search sites leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the searchers specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers. Some meta-search sites, such as Kayak.com, which recently began offering its users the ability to purchase tickets directly on its website, may evolve into more traditional online travel sites with ticket-booking capability. These initiatives, among others, illustrate Googles and Bings clear intention to more directly appeal to travel consumers by showing consumers more detailed travel search results, including specific information for travelers own itineraries, which could lead to suppliers or others gaining a larger share of Googles or Bings traffic or may ultimately lead to search engines maintaining transactions within their own websites. If Google, as the single largest search engine in the world, or Bing, or other leading search engines refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, it could result in, among other things, more competition from supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many airline, hotel and rental car suppliers, including suppliers with which we conduct business, are focusing on driving online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us. Certain suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online 45 Table of Contents channel other than their own website. Furthermore, some airlines may distribute their tickets exclusively through their own websites. Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours. Many of our current and potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel, technical and other resources than we do. Some of these competitors may be able to secure services on more favorable terms than we can. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly greater resources to: marketing and promotional campaigns; attracting traffic to their websites; attracting and retaining key employees; securing vendors and supply; and website and systems development. Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and damage to our brands. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on certain suppliers. Our arrangements with the hotel, airline and rental car suppliers that participate in our system either through our Name Your Own Price or price-disclosed service generally do not require them to provide any specific quantity of hotel room reservations, airline tickets or rental cars, or to make room reservations, tickets or cars available for any particular route, in any geographic area or at any particular price. During the course of our business, we are in continuous dialogue with our major suppliers about the nature and extent of their participation in our system. The significant reduction on the part of any of our major suppliers of their participation in our system for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During the recent worldwide recession, the hotel industry experienced a significant decrease in occupancy rates and ADRs, and an increase in reservation cancellation rates. While lower occupancy rates have historically resulted in hotel suppliers increasing their distribution of hotel room reservations through third-party intermediaries such as us, our remuneration for hotel transactions changes proportionately with room price, and therefore, lower ADRs generally have a negative effect on our hotel business and a negative effect on our gross profit. In addition, certain hotels have begun initiatives to reduce margins received by third party intermediaries on retail merchant transactions, which is the primary method we employ to distribute retail hotel room reservations in the United States. Many hotels distribute room reservations through their own websites and therefore might increase negotiated rates for merchant rate hotel room reservations sold through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service, decreasing the margin available to us. While our merchant price-disclosed hotel agreements with our leading hotel suppliers provide for specified discounts, if one or more participating hotels were to require us to limit our merchant margins, upon contract renewal or otherwise, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 46 Table of Contents With respect to our airline suppliers, the airline industry has experienced a shift in market share from full-service carriers to low-cost carriers that focus primarily on discount fares to leisure destinations and we expect this trend to continue. Some low-cost carriers, such as Southwest, have not historically distributed their tickets through us or other third-party intermediaries. In addition, certain airlines have significantly limited or eliminated sales of airline tickets through opaque channels, preferring to consistently show the lowest available price on their own website. Since the start of the worldwide recession, domestic airline capacity has been significantly reduced, which reduces the number of airline tickets available to our customers and the amount of discounted airline tickets available for our Name Your Own Price business. During 2010 and the first quarter of 2011, airlines significantly increased their average fares over prior periods, which adversely impacts travel demand. Reduced airline capacity and lower travel demand negatively impact our priceline.com air business, which in turn has negative repercussions on our priceline.com hotel and rental car businesses, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Conversely, decreased airfares can adversely impact our Name Your Own Price airline tickets sales by reducing the amount of absolute dollar savings as compared to retail airline tickets. We could be adversely affected by changes in the airline industry, and, in many cases, we will have no control over such changes or their timing. Recently, there has been significant domestic airline industry consolidation, as evidenced by mergers of United Air Lines with Continental Airlines; Delta Air Lines with Northwest Airlines; and AirTran with Southwest Airlines. If one of our major airline suppliers merges or consolidates with, or is acquired by, another company that either does not participate in the priceline.com system or that participates on substantially lower levels, the surviving company may elect not to participate in our system or to participate at lower levels than the previous supplier. For example, in May 2011, Southwest Airlines announced that it completed its acquisition of AirTran. AirTran has participated in our Name Your Own Price system on only a limited basis, but Southwest Airlines has never participated. In fact, Southwest Airlines does not currently distribute airline tickets through any online travel agent or permit its fares to appear in comparative fare displays. If AirTran fares are taken out of the online marketplace as a result of this acquisition, those fares would no longer be available to us. Similarly, United Air Lines has historically participated in our Name Your Own Price system at a high level, while Continental Airlines has historically participated at a much lower level. We cannot predict the effects that the acquisition of AirTran by Southwest Airlines or the merger of United Air Lines with Continental Airlines will have on our business. In addition, in the event that one of our major suppliers voluntarily or involuntarily declares bankruptcy and is subsequently unable to successfully emerge from bankruptcy, and we are unable to replace such supplier, our business would be adversely affected. For example, in April 2008, Aloha Airlines and ATA Airlines each ceased operations and we experienced an increase in credit card chargebacks from customers with tickets on those airlines. To the extent major U.S. airlines that participate in our system declare bankruptcy or cease operations, they may be unable or unwilling to honor tickets sold for their flights. Our policy in such event is to direct customers seeking a refund or exchange to the airline, and not to provide a remedy ourselves. Because we are the merchant-of-record on sales of Name Your Own Price airline tickets to our customers, however, we could experience a significant increase in demands for refunds or credit card chargebacks from customers, which could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition, because Name Your Own Price customers do not choose their airlines, hotels or rental car companies, the bankruptcy of a major airline, hotel or rental car company, or even the possibility of such a bankruptcy, could discourage customers from using our Name Your Own Price system to book travel. Some travel suppliers are encouraging third-party travel intermediaries, such as us, to develop technology to bypass the traditional GDSs, such as enabling direct connections to the travel suppliers or using alternative global distribution methods. For example, during 2010, we began implementation of direct connection capability with American Airlines. In December 2010, American terminated its participation in the Orbitz service and withdrew its fares from the Orbitz website, and, in a dispute with American Airlines, Expedia removed American content from its site as its contract with American was set to expire on December 31, 2010. In April 2011, Expedia and American announced that American would make content available through Expedia and Expedia would establish direct connection capability with American. This is consistent with an effort on the part of American Airlines, and the airline industry in general, to reduce distribution costs and could be indicative of the airlines in general becoming more aggressive in requiring online travel agents to implement direct connections. Development and implementation of the technology to enable additional direct connections to travel suppliers could cause us to incur additional operating expenses, increase the 47 Table of Contents frequency/duration of system problems and delay other projects. In addition, any additional migration toward direct connections would reduce the compensation we receive from GDSs. Many current agreements between major U.S. airlines and major GDSs are due to expire during or at the end of 2011. It is unclear whether and to what extent any new agreement (or extension or renewal of any existing agreement) between any major U.S. airline and any major GDS will enable GDS subscribers, such as us, equal access to the fares, inventory and content provided by such carrier through the GDS. Furthermore, it is possible that a dispute between an airline and a GDS could lead to an airline removing its fares from the GDS. Despite the fact that such a dispute may not involve us, our business could be adversely affected if we are denied access to airfares in a major GDS. The loss of any major airline participant in our Name Your Own Price system would result in reduced opacity for this service, which could result in other major airlines electing to terminate their participation in the Name Your Own Price system, which would further negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In such event, if we are unable to divert sales to other suppliers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, given the concentration of the airline industry, particularly in the domestic market, our competitors could exert pressure on other airlines not to supply us with tickets. Moreover, the airlines may attempt to establish their own buyer driven commerce service or participate or invest in other similar services. United Airlines prohibits certain travel agents from using Uniteds merchant processing system for retail credit card transactions. When accepting credit cards for payment, such agents must use their own merchant accounts and settle with United with cash. By requiring such agents to act as merchant of record, United passes the credit card processing costs onto the travel agent. United has not informed us that we must cease using Uniteds merchant processing system for credit card transactions, however, if United or another airline changes its policy with respect to us and requires us to act as merchant of record for retail airline ticket transactions, we will incur additional credit card processing costs and increased chargeback activity and expense, including chargeback expense in connection with the bankruptcy of any such airline. Avis is currently in discussions to acquire the Dollar-Thrifty Automotive Group. The merger or acquisition of the Dollar-Thrifty Automotive Group by Avis or another rental car company could result in a decrease of rental car reservations available to our rental car service. If another major rental car supplier merges or consolidates with, or is acquired by, another company that either does not participate in the priceline.com system or that participates on substantially lower levels, the surviving company may elect not to participate in our system or to participate at lower levels than the previous supplier. The loss of any rental car supplier participant in our Name Your Own Price system could result in other rental car suppliers electing to terminate or reduce their participation in the Name Your Own Price system, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, industry consolidation and any resulting reduction in rental car capacity would limit the amount of availability for TravelJigsaws rental car service. Furthermore, many major rental car companies are highly leveraged and the inability of a rental car company to refinance its debt, restructure its operations or emerge from a bankruptcy could lead to a reduction in rental car supply made available to us. In addition, fewer independent suppliers reduces opacity and competition among suppliers. In such event, if we are unable to divert sales to other suppliers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, any disruption in the supply of vehicles or the ability to dispose of vehicles by rental car companies could impact the ability of the rental car companies to match their fleet supply with demand, which could adversely impact our business. Recent decreases in rental car fleets have led to decreases in rental car availability, which has negatively impacted our Name Your Own Price rental car service. The crisis in Japan resulting from the recent earthquake and tsunami is expected to result in reduced vehicle production leading to further strain on rental car companies fleets and increased retail rental car rates. If the industry is faced with a shortage of vehicles, rental car companies may further reduce the number of car reservations they distribute through our service or increase the negotiated rates at which they are willing to provide car reservations. For example, since the recent worldwide recession, the rental car industry has generally reduced its fleet capacity, which has limited the amount of discounted rental car days available for our Name Your Own Price rental car service. 48 Table of Contents Rental car rates during the three months ended March 31, 2011 were generally lower than in the same period in 2010. Because rental car days are typically less expensive than airline tickets or hotel room night reservations, a reduction in retail rental car rates has a disproportionately adverse effect on sales of Name Your Own Price rental car days since customers may be less likely to accept the trade-offs associated with that service for lower absolute savings. Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operation. A number of jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against on-line travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax). In addition, a number of municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes. See Note 13 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and proceedings. Additional state and local jurisdictions are likely to assert that we are subject to, among other things, hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and could seek to collect such taxes, either retroactively or prospectively, or both. In connection with some hotel occupancy tax audits and assessments, we may be required to pay any assessed taxes, which amounts may be substantial, prior to being allowed to contest the assessments and the applicability of the ordinances in judicial proceedings. This requirement is commonly referred to as pay to play or pay first. Payment of these amounts, if any, is not an admission that we believe that we are subject to such taxes and, even if such payments are made, we intend to continue to assert our position vigorously. Litigation is subject to uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these pending or future cases and proceedings. For example, in October 2009, a jury in a San Antonio class action found that we and the other online travel companies that are defendants in the lawsuit control hotels for purposes of the local hotel occupancy tax ordinances at issue and are, therefore, subject to the requirements of those ordinances. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending litigation may encourage the commencement of additional litigation, audit proceedings or other regulatory inquiries. In addition, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of these actions or proceedings could result in substantial liabilities for past and/or future bookings, including, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs. There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs, which may include pay to play payments, associated with defending our position in pending and any future cases or proceedings. An adverse outcome in one or more of these unresolved proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and could be material to our earnings or cash flows in any given operating period. 49 Table of Contents To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that we have a tax collection responsibility, or we determine that we have one, with respect to future transactions, we may collect any such additional tax obligation from our customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room reservations to our customers and, consequently, could make our hotel service less competitive (i.e., versus the websites of other online travel companies or hotel company websites) and reduce hotel reservation transactions; alternatively, we could choose to reduce the compensation for our services on merchant hotel transactions. Either step could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In many of the judicial and other proceedings initiated to date, municipalities seek not only historical taxes that are claimed to be owed on our gross profit, but also, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs. The October 2009 jury verdict in the San Antonio litigation and the related proceedings to determine, among other things, the amount of penalties, interest and attorneys fees that could be owed by us illustrate that any liability associated with hotel occupancy tax matters is not constrained by our liability for tax owed on our historical gross profit. We will continue to assess the risks of the potential financial impact of additional tax exposure, and to the extent appropriate, we will reserve for those estimates of liabilities. Fluctuations in our financial results make quarterly comparisons and financial forecasting difficult. Our revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter because our business experiences seasonal fluctuations, which reflect seasonal trends for the travel services offered by our websites. Traditional leisure travel bookings in Europe and the United States are higher in the second and third calendar quarters of the year as consumers take spring and summer vacations. In the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year, demand for travel services in Europe and the United States generally declines from a seasonal perspective. A meaningful amount of retail gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in the Northern Hemisphere. However, we will not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs. From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which bookings are generated. As a result, we experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for the year for our North American and European businesses. However, we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters. Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results. Our revenues and operating results may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of these factors. As a result, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not be meaningful. For example, over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in the number of hotel room nights booked through our hotel reservation services. However, given the sheer size of our hotel reservation business, we believe it is highly likely that our year-over-year room night reservation growth rates will generally decelerate on a quarterly sequential basis in future periods. Because of these fluctuations and uncertainties, our operating results may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the trading price of our common stock would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we can maintain our Innovation Box Tax benefit. Effective January 1, 2010, the Netherlands modified its corporate income tax law related to income generated from qualifying innovative activities (the Innovation Box Tax). Earnings that qualify for the Innovation Box Tax will effectively be taxed at the rate of 5% rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25.0% (25.5% in 2010). Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities in February 2011 confirming that a portion of its earnings (qualifying earnings) is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment. The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2013 (the Initial Period). 50 Table of Contents In order to be eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment, Booking.com must, among other things, apply for and obtain a research and development (R&D) certificate from a Dutch governmental agency every six months confirming that the activities that Booking.com intends to be engaged in over the subsequent six month period are innovative. Should Booking.com fail to secure such a certificate in any such period for example, because the governmental agency does not view Booking.coms new or anticipated activities as innovative or should this agency determine that the activities contemplated to be performed in a prior period were not performed as contemplated or did not comply with the agencys requirements, Booking.com may lose its certificate and, as a result, the Innovation Box Tax benefit may be reduced or eliminated. After the Initial Period, Booking.com intends to reapply for continued Innovation Box Tax treatment for future periods. There can be no assurance that Booking.coms application will be accepted, or that the amount of qualifying earnings or applicable tax rates will not be reduced at that time. In addition, there can be no assurance that the tax law will not change in 2011 and/or future years resulting in a reduction or elimination of the tax benefit. The loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit in future periods would adversely impact our results of operations. Our stock price is highly volatile . The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; quarterly variations in our operating results; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors; changes in our capital structure; changes in market valuations of other Internet or online service companies; announcements by us or our competitors of price reductions, promotions, significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; loss of a major supplier participant, such as an airline or hotel chain; changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; lack of success in the expansion of our business model geographically; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us or adverse developments in pending proceedings; occurrences of a significant security breach; additions or departures of key personnel; and stock market price and volume fluctuations. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by introducing a large number of sellers to the market. Given the volatility that exists for our shares, such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. The trading prices of Internet company stocks in general, including ours, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. To the extent that the publics perception of the prospects of Internet or e-commerce companies is negative, our stock price could decline further, regardless of our results. Other broad market and 51 Table of Contents industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, also may decrease the market price of our common stock. Negative market conditions could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. We are defendants in securities class action litigations. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. To the extent our stock price declines or is volatile, we may in the future be the target of additional litigation. This additional litigation could result in substantial costs and divert managements attention and resources. Our business could be negatively affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics or termination of traffic-generating arrangements. We utilize Internet search engines and other travel demand aggregation websites, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords, to generate traffic to our websites. Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw, in particular, rely to a significant extent upon Google to generate business and, to a much lesser extent, other search engines and other travel demand aggregation websites. Search engines such as Google frequently update and change the logic which determines the placement and display of results of a users search, such that the placement of links to our sites, and particularly those of Booking.com, Agoda, TravelJigsaw and their affiliates, can be negatively affected. In a similar way, a significant amount of Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaws business is directed to our own websites through participation in pay-per-click advertising campaigns on Internet search engines whose pricing and operating dynamics can experience rapid change commercially, technically and competitively. In addition, we purchase web traffic from a number of sources, including some operated by our competitors, in the form of pay-per-click arrangements that can be terminated with little or no notice. If one or more of such arrangements is terminated, or if a major search engine, such as Google, changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking of our brands or our third-party distribution partners or changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics in a negative manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw rely on various third party distribution channels (i.e., affiliates) to distribute hotel room reservations. Should one or more of such third parties cease distribution of Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw reservations, or suffer deterioration in its search engine ranking, due to changes in search engine algorithms or otherwise, our business could be negatively affected. Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data exposes us to risks of internal or external security breaches and could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. The security of data when engaging in electronic commerce is essential in maintaining consumer and supplier confidence in our services. Substantial or ongoing security breaches whether instigated internally or externally on our system or other Internet based systems could significantly harm our business. We currently require customers who use certain of our services to guarantee their offers with their credit card, either online or, in some instances, through our toll-free telephone service. It is possible that advances in computer circumvention capabilities, new discoveries or other developments, including our own acts or omissions, could result in a compromise or breach of customer transaction data. We cannot guarantee that our existing security measures will prevent security breaches or attacks. A party (whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third party) that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal customer information or transaction data, proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. For instance, from time to time, we have experienced denial-of-service type attacks on our system that have made portions of our websites slow or unavailable for periods of time. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches, and reductions in website availability and response time could cause loss of substantial business volumes during the occurrence of any such incident. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate and as the tools and techniques used in such attacks become more advanced. Security breaches could result in negative 52 Table of Contents publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. Security breaches could also cause customers and potential customers to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, and would likely not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Companies that we have acquired, such as Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw, and that we may acquire in the future, may employ security and networking standards at levels we find unsatisfactory. The process of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved security and network standards may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. Such acquisitions increase the number of potential vulnerabilities, and can cause delays in detection of an attack, as well as the timelines of recovery from any given attack. Failure to raise any such standards that we find unsatisfactory could expose us to security breaches of, among other things, personal customer data and credit card information that would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business over the Internet. Consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy on the Internet, and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the Internet and, therefore, our services as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Additionally, security breaches at third parties such as supplier or distributor systems upon which we rely could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. Some of our business is conducted with third party marketing affiliates, which may generate travel reservations through our infrastructure or through other systems. A security breach at such a third party could be perceived by consumers as a security breach of our systems and could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. In addition, such third parties may not comply with applicable disclosure requirements, which could expose us to liability. In our processing of travel transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data. This data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European Union. This government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, government agencies have been contemplating or developing initiatives to enhance national and aviation security, such as the Transportation Security Administrations Computer-Assisted Passenger Prescreening System, known as CAPPS II. These initiatives may result in conflicting legal requirements with respect to data handling. As privacy and data protection has become a more sensitive issue, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of travel data. Travel businesses have also been subjected to investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper disclosure of passenger information. These and other privacy developments that are difficult to anticipate could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. In particular, the contributions of certain key senior management in the U.S., Europe and Asia are critical to the overall management of the Company. In addition, because our European senior managements noncontrolling ownership interest was repurchased in September 2008, it may become more difficult to retain these senior managers. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees, the loss of whom could harm our business. 53 Table of Contents In addition, competition for well-qualified employees in all aspects of our business, including software engineers and other technology professionals, is intense both in the U.S. and abroad. With the recent success of our international business and the increased profile of the Booking.com business and brand, competitors have increased their efforts to hire our international employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. Our expansion places a significant strain on our management, technical, operational and financial resources. We have rapidly and significantly expanded our international operations and anticipate expanding further to pursue growth of our service offerings and customer base. For example, the number of our employees worldwide has grown from less than 700 in the first quarter of 2007, to approximately 3,700 as of March 31, 2011, which growth is mostly comprised of hires by or for our international operations. Such expansion increases the complexity of our business and places a significant strain on our management, operations, technical performance, financial resources and internal financial control and reporting functions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expansion effectively. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage our future operations, especially as we employ personnel in multiple geographic locations. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth, damage our reputation, negatively affect our financial performance, and harm our business. Capacity constraints and system failures could harm our business. We rely on certain third party computer systems and third party service providers, including the computerized central reservation systems of the airline, hotel and rental car industries to satisfy demand for airline tickets and priceline.com hotel room and rental car reservations. In particular, our priceline.com travel business is substantially dependent upon the computerized reservation systems of operators of global distribution systems for the travel industry. Any interruption in these third party services systems or deterioration in their performance could prevent us from booking airline, hotel and rental car reservations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our agreements with some third party service providers are terminable upon short notice and often do not provide recourse for service interruptions. In the event our arrangement with any of such third parties is terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative source of systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms and, as a result, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend upon Chase Paymentech to process our U.S. credit card transactions; Global Collect and others to process Agoda credit card transactions; and Wright Express to provide credit card numbers which we use as a payment mechanism for merchant hotel transactions. If any of these providers were wholly or partially compromised, our cash flows could be disrupted until such a time as a replacement process could be put in place with a different vendor. As we add complexity to our systems infrastructure by adding new suppliers and distribution, our total system availability could decline and our results could suffer. A substantial amount of our computer hardware for operating our services is currently located at the facilities of SAVVIS in New Jersey, AT&T in New York City, Equinix Europe Ltd. in London, England, Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. in the Netherlands and certain other data centers. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of any disruption of service due to any such misconduct, natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at the SAVVIS facility, the AT&T facility, the Equinix Europe Ltd. facility and the Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. facility, or other facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. In addition, the failure by SAVVIS, Verizon, AT&T, Equinix Europe Ltd., Colt Telecom Group Limited, Verizon Business B.V., TrueServer B.V. or other communication providers to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. Any system failure that causes an interruption 54 Table of Contents in service or decreases the responsiveness of our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not have a completely formalized disaster recovery plan in every geographic region in which we conduct business. In the event of certain system failures, we may not be able to switch to back-up systems immediately and the time to full recovery could be prolonged. Like many online businesses, we have experienced system failures from time to time. In addition to placing increased burdens on our engineering staff, these outages create a significant amount of user questions and complaints that need to be addressed by our customer support personnel. Any unscheduled interruption in our service could result in an immediate loss of revenues that can be substantial, increase customer service cost and cause some users to switch to our competitors. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We have been taking steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems. These steps are expensive, may reduce our margins and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. We use both internally developed systems and third-party systems to operate our services, including transaction processing, order management and financial systems. If the number of users of our services increases substantially, or if critical third-party systems stop operating as designed, we will need to significantly expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems, financial and accounting systems and other infrastructure. We do not know whether we will be able to upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such conditions in a timely manner, and, depending on the third-party systems affected, our transactional, financial and accounting systems could be impacted for a meaningful amount of time before repair. If our systems cannot be expanded to cope with increased demand or fails to perform, we could experience: unanticipated disruptions in service; slower response times; decreased customer service and customer satisfaction; or delays in the introduction of new services, any of which could impair our reputation, damage our brands and materially and adversely affect our revenues. While we do maintain redundant systems and hosting services for some of our business, it is possible that we could experience an interruption in our business, and we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Companies that we have acquired, such as Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw, and that we may acquire in the future, may present known or unknown capacity/stability or other types of system challenges. The process of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved capacity/scalability and other system characteristics may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. Such acquisitions increase potential downtime, customer facing problems and compliance problems. Failure to successfully make any such improvements to such infrastructures could expose us to potential capacity, stability, and system problems that would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our financial results will likely be materially impacted by payment of cash income taxes in the future. Until our domestic net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, we do not expect to make payments on our U.S. income, except for U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our foreign income. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income at higher rates than our U.S. operations over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international operations generate an increasing share of our pretax income. 55 Table of Contents We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities . As an international corporation providing hotel reservation services in more than 100 countries around the world, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, such as certain proposals by President Obamas Administration, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, we are under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties. As part of our business strategy, we acquired Booking.com Limited in September 2004, Booking.com B.V. in July 2005, Agoda in November 2007 and TravelJigsaw in May 2010. We may enter into additional business combinations and acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets acquired. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The acquisitions of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, Agoda and TravelJigsaw were accompanied by a number of risks, including, without limitation: the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisitions may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies; the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of Booking.com Limited, which are principally located in Cambridge, England, Booking.com B.V., which are principally located in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, Agoda, which are principally located in Singapore and Bangkok, Thailand, and TravelJigsaw, which are principally located in Manchester, England, with and into our operations, which are headquartered in Norwalk, Connecticut; the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; the failure to further successfully develop acquired technology resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; the impairment of relationships with customers of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, Agoda and TravelJigsaw or our own customers as a result of any integration of operations; the impairment of relationships with employees of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, Agoda and TravelJigsaw or our own business as a result of any integration of new management personnel; the potential unknown liabilities associated with Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, Agoda and TravelJigsaw. 56 Table of Contents We may experience similar risks in connection with any future acquisitions. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisitions of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, Agoda or TravelJigsaw, or that we could encounter in future acquisitions, which would harm our business or cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. As of March 31, 2011, we had approximately $720 million assigned to the intangible assets and goodwill of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, Agoda and TravelJigsaw, and therefore, the occurrence of any of the risks identified above could result in a material adverse impact, including an impairment of these assets, which could cause us to have to record a charge for impairment. Any such charge could adversely impact our operating results, which would likely cause our stock price to decline significantly. We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other changes. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, consolidation, frequent new service announcements, introductions and enhancements and changing consumer demands. We may not be able to keep up with these rapid changes. In addition, these market characteristics are heightened by the emerging nature of the Internet and the apparent need of companies from many industries to offer Internet based services. As a result, our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to competitive service offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. Improved web browsing functionality and the development of thousands of useful applications is driving substantial traffic and commerce activity to mobile platforms, including smart phones such as the iPhone and Android-enabled phones, and tablet devices such as the iPad. In addition, social networking sites and social commerce and flash-sale sites are experiencing high levels of usage and rapid growth. We believe travel transactions will grow rapidly on mobile platforms and may gain acceptance on social and flash-sale platforms. If we are unable to develop product offerings and effective distribution on these platforms, we could lose market share to existing competitors or new entrants. We rely on the value of the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda.com brands, along with others, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing. We believe that maintaining and expanding the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands, and other owned brands, including Lowestfare.com, rentalcars.com, Breezenet.com, MyTravelGuide.com, Travelweb, hotelroom.com, TravelJigsaw and Car Hire 3000, are important aspects of our efforts to attract and expand our user and advertiser base. As our larger competitors spend increasingly more on advertising, we are required to spend more in order to maintain our brand recognition. In addition, we have spent considerable money and resources to date on the establishment and maintenance of the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands, and we will continue to spend money on, and devote resources to advertising, marketing and other brand building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our brands. We may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of these brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance customer awareness of our brands in a cost-effective manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We will be subject to increased income taxes in the event that our foreign cash balances are remitted to the United States . As of March 31, 2011, we held approximately $0.9 billion of cash and short-term liquid investments outside of the United States. To date, we have used our foreign cash to reinvest in our foreign operations. It is our current expectation to make further investments in our foreign operations with our foreign cash. If our foreign cash balances continue to grow and our ability to reinvest those balances diminishes, it will become increasingly likely that we will repatriate some of our foreign cash balances to the United States. In such event, we would likely be 57 Table of Contents subject to additional income tax expenses in the United States with respect to our unremitted foreign earnings. We would not incur an increase in tax payments unless we repatriate the cash and no longer have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset the taxable income. Additionally, if we were to repatriate foreign cash to the U.S., it would use a portion of our domestic net operating loss carryforward which could result in us being subject to cash income taxes on the earnings of our domestic business sooner than would otherwise have been the case. In addition, on February 1, 2011, U.S. President Barack Obama proposed significant changes to the U.S. international tax laws that would limit U.S. deductions for interest expense related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and modify the U.S. foreign tax credit rules. We cannot determine whether all of these proposals will be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being enacted into law. If the U.S. tax laws change in a manner that increases our tax obligation, our results could suffer. Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business . The services we offer are regulated by regulations (including without limitation laws, ordinances, rules and other regulations) of national and local governments and regulatory authorities around the world. Our ability to provide our services is and will continue to be affected by such regulations. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by judicial or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause the development of the affected markets to become impractical and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations include U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations and consumer protection laws. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brands, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. We are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to: general economic conditions in each country or region; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts to our operating results; regulatory changes; political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities; public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; additional complexity to comply with regulations in multiple tax jurisdictions, as well as overlapping tax regimes; our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the United States at favorable tax rates; difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. Our business has grown substantially over the last several years and continues to expand into new geographical locations. In addition, we have made efforts and expect to make further efforts to integrate supply across our various demand platforms. These changes add to complexity in tax compliance, and our increased size and operating history may increase the likelihood that we will be subject to audits by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions. To date, we have been audited in several taxing jurisdictions with no significant adjustments as a result. If future audits found that additional taxes were due, we may be subject to tax liabilities, possibly including 58 Table of Contents interest and penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial conditions and results of operations. In addition, the strategy of Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw involves rapid expansion into regions around the world, including Europe, Asia, North America, South America and elsewhere, many of which have different legislation, regulatory environments, tax laws and levels of political stability. In September 2010, the United Kingdoms Office of Fair Trading (OFT), the competition authority in the U.K., announced it was conducting a formal early stage investigation into suspected breaches of competition law in the hotel online booking sector and had written to a number of parties in the industry to request information. Specifically, the investigation focuses upon whether there are agreements or concerted practices between hotels and online travel companies and/or hotel room reservation wholesalers relating to the fixed or minimum resale prices of hotel room reservations. In September 2010, Booking.com B.V. and priceline.com Incorporated, on behalf of Booking.com, received a Notice of Inquiry from the OFT; we and Booking.com are cooperating with the OFTs investigation. We are unable at this time to predict the outcome of the OFTs investigation and the impact, if any, on our business and results of operations. Compliance with foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences. We face risks related to our intellectual property. We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business, there can be no assurance that: a third party will not have or obtain one or more patents that can prevent us from practicing features of our business or that will require us to pay for a license to use those features; our operations do not or will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third parties; any patent can be successfully defended against challenges by third parties; the pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; competitors or potential competitors will not devise new methods of competing with us that are not covered by our patents or patent applications; because of variations in the application of our business model to each of our services, our patents will be effective in preventing one or more third parties from utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in one or more categories; new prior art will not be discovered that may diminish the value of or invalidate an issued patent; or legislative or judicial action will not directly or indirectly affect the scope and validity of any of our patent rights. There has been recent discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so called business method patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable to such patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a direct effect on patents already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, the new review process will have on our pending patent applications. In addition, there has been recent discussion in various federal court proceedings 59 Table of Contents regarding the patentability and validity of so called business method patents. The U.S. Supreme Court, in a recent decision in Bilski v. Kappos , partially addressed the patentability of so-called business method patents. We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, any new federal court decision or new legislation will have on our issued patents or pending patent applications. We pursue the registration of our trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. However, effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are made available online. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we have been subject to, and are currently subject to, legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties will continue to assert intellectual property claims, in particular patent claims, against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business. We endeavor to defend our intellectual property rights diligently, but intellectual property litigation is extremely expensive and time consuming, and has and is likely to continue to divert managerial attention and resources from our business objectives. Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to obtain licenses to use intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be expensive to procure, or possibly to cease using those rights altogether. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and chargebacks. Our results have been negatively impacted by purchases made using fraudulent credit cards. Because we act as the merchant-of-record in a majority of our priceline.com transactions as well as those of Agoda and TravelJigsaw, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards on our websites as well as other payment disputes with our customers. Additionally, we are held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards in certain retail transactions when we do not act as merchant of record. Accordingly, we calculate and record an allowance for the resulting credit card chargebacks. If we are unable to combat the use of fraudulent credit cards on our websites, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, in the event that one of our major suppliers voluntarily or involuntarily declares bankruptcy, we could experience an increase in credit card chargebacks from customers with travel reservations with such supplier. For example, airlines that participate in our system and declare bankruptcy or cease operations may be unable or unwilling to honor tickets sold for their flights. Our policy in such event is to direct customers seeking a refund or exchange to the airline, and not to provide a remedy ourselves. Because we are the merchant-of-record on sales of Name Your Own Price airline tickets to our customers, however, we could experience a significant increase in demands for refunds or credit card chargebacks from customers, which could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. For example, in April 2008, Aloha Airlines and ATA Airlines each ceased operations and we experienced an increase in credit card chargebacks from customers with tickets on those airlines. The unit profitability of certain of our businesses has declined and could continue to decline, as we may be subject to, among other things, competitive pressure and loss or reduction of global distribution system fees. In recent years, the amount of profit we make per airline ticket sold has declined and could continue to decline as we, among other things, experience pressure from suppliers to reduce our profit, strive to remain competitive with other online travel agencies and continue to be subject to reduction of global distribution system, or GDS, fees paid to us. Historically, we have relied on fees paid to us by GDSs for travel bookings made through GDSs for a portion of our gross profit and a substantial portion of our operating income. We rebate certain GDS costs to certain suppliers (e.g., airlines, hotels, etc.) in exchange for contractual considerations such as those relating to pricing and availability, and expect to continue to do so in the future. Suppliers put pressure on us to reduce our aggregate compensation and book through lower cost channels to receive full content and avoid penalties. We have agreements with a number of suppliers to obtain access to content, and are in continuing discussions with others to obtain similar access. If we were denied access to full content or had to impose service fees on our services, it could 60 Table of Contents have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, some travel suppliers are encouraging third-party travel intermediaries, such as us, to develop technology to bypass the traditional GDSs, such as enabling direct connections to the travel suppliers or using alternative global distribution methods. For example, during 2010, we began implementation of direct connection capability with American Airlines. In December 2010, American terminated its participation in the Orbitz service and withdrew its fares from the Orbitz website, and, in a dispute with American Airlines, Expedia removed American content from its site as its contract with American was set to expire on December 31, 2010. In April 2011, Expedia and American announced that American would make content available through Expedia and Expedia would establish direct connection capability with American. This is consistent with an effort on the part of American Airlines, and the airline industry in general, to reduce distribution costs and could be indicative of the airlines in general becoming more aggressive in requiring online travel agents to implement direct connections. Development and implementation of the technology to enable additional direct connections to travel suppliers could cause us to incur additional operating expenses, increase the frequency/duration of system problems and delay other projects. In addition, any additional migration toward direct connections would reduce the compensation we receive from GDSs. Many current agreements between major U.S. airlines and major GDSs are due to expire during or at the end of 2011. It is unclear whether and to what extent any new agreement (or extension or renewal of any existing agreement) between any major U.S. airline and any major GDS will enable GDS subscribers, such as us, equal access to the fares, inventory and content provided by such carrier through the GDS. Furthermore, it is possible that a dispute between an airline and a GDS could lead to an airline removing its fares from the GDS. Despite the fact that such a dispute may not involve us, our business could be adversely affected if we are denied access to airfares in a major GDS. We are party to legal proceedings which, if adversely decided, could materially adversely affect us. We are a party to the legal proceedings described in Note 13 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements. The defense of the actions described in Note 13 may increase our expenses and an adverse outcome in any of such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.