Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (In thousands, except per share amounts) Total revenues $ 10,743,006 $ 9,223,987 $ 8,441,971 $ 6,793,306 $ 5,260,956 Cost of revenues 428,314 632,180 857,841 1,077,420 1,177,275 Gross profit 10,314,692 8,591,807 7,584,130 5,715,886 4,083,681 Total operating expenses (1) 7,408,379 5,332,900 4,510,818 3,303,472 2,253,888 Operating income (1) 2,906,313 3,258,907 3,073,312 2,412,414 1,829,793 Total other expense 193,075 130,587 83,864 115,877 67,924 Income tax expense 578,251 576,960 567,695 403,739 337,832 Net income (1) 2,134,987 2,551,360 2,421,753 1,892,798 1,424,037 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (2) 135 4,471 Net income applicable to common stockholders (1) 2,134,987 2,551,360 2,421,753 1,892,663 1,419,566 Net income applicable to common stockholders per basic common share (1) 43.14 50.09 46.30 37.17 28.48 Net income applicable to common stockholders per diluted common share (1) 42.65 49.45 45.67 36.11 27.66 Total assets 19,838,973 17,420,575 14,770,977 10,428,543 6,547,771 Long-term obligations, redeemable noncontrolling interests (3) 8,127,895 7,185,796 4,862,730 2,289,039 1,710,194 Total liabilities 9,990,293 8,625,106 6,203,954 3,510,281 2,435,854 Total stockholders' equity 9,820,142 8,795,469 8,566,694 6,909,729 3,896,975 (1) t Includes a non-cash charge related to an impairment of OpenTable goodwill of $940.7 million , which is not tax deductible, for the year ended December 31, 2016 (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The goodwill impairment charge reduced the 2016 basic and diluted net income per share by $19.01 and $18.79, respectively. (2) Redeemable noncontrolling interests relates to the Company's purchase of Rentalcars.com in May 2010. In April 2012, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2012, the redeemable noncontrolling interests in Rentalcars.com were reduced from 19.0% to 12.7%. In April 2013, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2013, the Company purchased the remaining outstanding shares underlying the redeemable noncontrolling interests. (3) Includes convertible debt which is classified as a current liability from 2011 through 2014 and 2016. 33 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," this discussion contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Overview Our mission is to help people experience the world. We seek to achieve our mission by providing consumers, travel service providers and restaurants with worldwide leadership in online reservation and related services. We operate six primary, independently managed brands: Booking.com - the worlds leading brand for booking online accommodation reservations, based on room nights booked. priceline.com - a leading hotel, rental car, airline ticket and vacation package reservation service in the United States. KAYAK - a leading meta-search service allowing consumers to easily search and compare travel itineraries and prices, including airline ticket, accommodation and rental car reservation information. agoda.com - a leading accommodation reservation service catering primarily to consumers in the Asia-Pacific region. Rentalcars.com - a leading worldwide rental car reservation service. OpenTable - a leading provider of restaurant reservation and information services to consumers and restaurant reservation management services to restaurants. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands collectively as "The Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda.com and Rentalcars.com and the international businesses of KAYAK and OpenTable (in each case regardless of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while using our services or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant). During the year ended December 31, 2016 , our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 88% of our consolidated gross profit. A significant majority of our gross profit is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more geographic information. We derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services on an agency basis; Transaction gross profit on a merchant basis and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car, airline ticket and vacation package reservation services; Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; Beginning on July 24, 2014, reservation revenues paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation services, subscription fees for restaurant reservation management services provided by OpenTable and other OpenTable revenues; and Damage excess waiver fees, travel insurance fees and global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees, in each case related to certain of our travel services. 34 Our priceline.com brand offers merchant Name Your Own Price opaque travel services, which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue. All of our other services are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between Name Your Own Price travel services and other services. Gross profit reflects the commission or net margin earned for all of our services. Consequently, gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business because, in contrast to our revenues, it is not affected by the different methods of recording revenue and cost of revenue between our Name Your Own Price travel reservation services and our other services. Trends Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices, the high growth of travel overall in emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America, and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build accommodation supply, content and distribution and to improve the consumer experience on our websites and mobile apps. These year-over-year growth rates have generally decelerated. Given the size of our accommodation reservation business, we expect that our year-over-year growth rates will generally continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate and there may be periods of acceleration from time to time. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2016 , our accommodation room night reservation growth was 29% , as compared to 25% in 2015, 28% in 2014, 37% in 2013 and 40% in 2012. Our international business represents the substantial majority of our financial results, and we expect our operating results and other financial metrics to continue to be largely driven by international performance. The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet use and e-commerce activity of international consumers have trailed that of consumers in the United States. However, international consumers are increasingly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. We expect that over the long term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. Our growth has primarily been generated by our worldwide accommodation reservation service brand, Booking.com, which is our most significant brand, and has been due, in part, to the availability of a large and growing number of directly bookable properties through Booking.com. Booking.com included over 1,115,000 properties on its website as of December 31, 2016 , which included over 568,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website), and compares to over 852,000 properties (including over 390,000 vacation rental properties) as of December 31, 2015 . We intend to continue to invest in adding accommodations available for reservation on our websites, including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels and vacation rentals. Vacation rentals generally consist of, among others, properties categorized as single-unit and multi-unit villas, apartments, "aparthotels" (which are apartments with a front desk and cleaning service) and chalets and are generally self-catered (i.e., include a kitchen), directly bookable properties. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts). Because a vacation rental is typically either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, vacation rental accommodations represent more limited booking opportunities than non-vacation rental properties, which generally have more units to rent per property. Our vacation rental accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons, weather or other factors. Our vacation rental accommodation business may also experience lower profit margins due to certain additional costs related to offering these accommodations on our websites. As we increase our vacation rental accommodation business, these different characteristics could negatively impact our profit margins; and, to the extent these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our websites, we expect that our gross bookings growth rate and property growth rate will continue to diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of vacation rental properties increases, we expect that the number of reservations per property will likely continue to decrease. We believe that continuing to expand the number and variety of accommodations available through our services, in particular Booking.com, will help us to continue to grow our accommodation reservation business. 35 As part of our strategy to increase the number and variety of accommodations available on Booking.com, Booking.com is increasingly processing transactions on a merchant basis where it facilitates payments on behalf of customers. This allows Booking.com to process transactions for properties that do not accept credit cards and to increase its ability to offer flexible transaction terms to consumers, such as the form and timing of payment. Although we will incur additional payment processing costs and chargebacks related to these transactions, which are recorded as sales and marketing expenses in our statement of operations and which will negatively impact our operating margins, we believe that adding these types of properties and service offerings will benefit our customers and our gross bookings, room night and earnings growth rates. Concerns persist about the outlook for the global economy in general, including uncertainty in the European Union and China. Perceived or actual adverse economic conditions, including slow, slowing or negative economic growth, unemployment rates and weakening currencies and concerns over government responses such as higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. Further, uncertainty regarding the future of the European Union following the United Kingdoms vote to leave (Brexit) and concerns regarding certain E.U. members with sovereign debt default risks could also negatively affect consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates, increased cancellation rates and weaker trends in hotel ADRs across many regions of the world, particularly in those countries that appear to be most affected by economic uncertainties, which we believe are due at least in part to macro-economic conditions and concerns. For more detail, see Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance." These and other macro-economic uncertainties, such as sovereign default risk becoming more widespread, declining oil prices, geopolitical tensions and differing central bank monetary policies, have led to significant volatility in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and other currencies. Significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, stock markets and oil prices can also impact consumer travel behavior. As noted earlier, our international business represents a substantial majority of our financial results. Therefore, because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international businesses are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. Throughout 2015, the U.S. Dollar strengthened significantly year-over-year relative to substantially all currencies in which we transact, most notably the Euro, Brazilian Real, British Pound Sterling, Russian Ruble and Australian Dollar. In 2016, the U.S. Dollar continued to be stronger year-over-year relative to the British Pound Sterling, Russian Ruble and many other major currencies in which we transact. Since the "Brexit" referendum in the United Kingdom in June 2016, the U.S. Dollar has strengthened significantly against the British Pound Sterling. As a result of these currency exchange rate changes, our foreign currency denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses and net income have been negatively impacted as expressed in U.S. Dollars, although to a much lesser extent in 2016 than in 2015. For example, gross profit from our international operations grew 22.3% for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , but, without the negative impact of changes in currency exchange rates, grew year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately 25% . Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins are not significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. The aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated 2022 Notes, 2024 Notes and 2027 Notes, and accrued interest thereon, provide a natural hedge of the net assets of certain of our Euro functional currency subsidiaries. For more information, see Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates." We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on the translation of our consolidated operating results into U.S. Dollars. However, such derivative instruments are short term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact growth rates for our gross bookings, revenues or gross profit (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). We compete globally with both online and traditional providers of travel and restaurant reservation and related services. The markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple, Alibaba, Amazon and Facebook, have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do, and they may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to enable them to compete more effectively with us. For example, Google has entered various aspects of the online travel market, including by establishing a flight meta-search product (Google Flights) and a hotel meta-search business ("Hotel Ads") that are growing rapidly, as well as its "Book on Google" reservation functionality. Our markets are also subject to rapidly changing conditions, including technological developments, consumer behavior changes, regulatory changes and travel service provider consolidation. We expect these trends to continue. For example, we have experienced a significant shift of both direct and indirect business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Advertising and distribution 36 opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. In addition, the gross profit earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. For more detail regarding the competitive trends and risks we face, see Part I Item 1 Business - "Competition", Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. " and " Consumer adoption and use of mobile devices creates new challenges and may enable device companies such as Apple to compete directly with us. " and " We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological changes." We have observed an increase in promotional pricing to closed user groups (such as loyalty program participants or consumers with registered accounts), including through mobile apps. For example, Marriott International, Hilton, Hyatt Hotels, InterContinental Hotel Group and Choice Hotels International have launched additional initiatives to encourage consumers to book accommodations directly through their websites, with increased discounting and incentives. In addition to providing retail travel reservation services, our priceline.com brand is a leading provider of discounted opaque travel reservation services in the United States through its Name Your Own Price and Express Deals offerings. These discounted services are referred to as "opaque" because certain elements of the reservation, including the name of the travel service provider, are not made known to the traveler until after the reservation is made. In general, we expect that over time our opaque services will continue to decrease in relative importance to our overall business due, we believe, to a variety of factors, including the growth rates of our retail businesses, competition, relative complexity, travel restrictions often required by the travel service provider, difficulty in offering these services on mobile devices, increased discounts available to consumers through closed user groups, and limited availability of discounted travel reservations from travel service providers, particularly during periods of high consumer demand. We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through marketing and promotional campaigns. Both our performance and brand advertising expenses have increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue. For the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , our total performance advertising expense was approximately $3.5 billion , $2.7 billion and $2.3 billion , respectively, primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services and affiliate marketing to generate traffic to our websites. We also invested approximately $296 million , $274 million and $257 million in brand advertising during 2016, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, primarily related to costs associated with producing and airing television advertising, online video advertising (for example, on YouTube and Facebook) and online display advertising. We intend to continue a strategy of promoting brand awareness through both online and offline advertising efforts, including by expanding brand campaigns into additional markets. We have observed increased brand advertising by OTCs, meta-search services and travel service providers, particularly in North America and Europe, which may make our brand advertising efforts more expensive and less effective. Performance advertising efficiency, expressed as performance advertising expense as a percentage of gross profit, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and the extent to which consumers come directly to our websites or mobile apps for bookings. For example, competition for desired rankings in search results and/or a decline in ad clicks by consumers could increase our costs-per-click and reduce our performance advertising efficiency. We have also experienced increasing cancellation rates, which we expect to continue and which negatively affects our advertising efficiency and results of operations. Changes by Google in how it presents travel search results, including by placing its own offerings at or near the top of search results, or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results may be competitively disadvantageous to us and may impact our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites. We have observed a long-term trend of decreasing performance advertising returns on investment ("ROIs"), a trend we expect to continue, though the rate of decrease may fluctuate and there may be periods of stable or increasing ROIs from time to time. See Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " We rely on performance and brand advertising channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites and grow our business. " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in Internet search engine algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " The national competition authorities ("NCAs") of many governments have conducted or are conducting investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. Some countries have adopted or proposed legislation that could also affect business practices within the online travel industry. For example, in August 2015, France adopted legislation known as the "Macron Law" making price parity agreements illegal, including those that had been approved by the French NCA, and similar legislation may be enacted in other counties. For more information on these investigations and their potential effects on our business, see Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " As the size of our business grows, we may become increasingly subject to the scrutiny of anti-trust and competition regulators. " 37 Seasonality A meaningful amount of our gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. However, we generally do not recognize revenue from these bookings until the travel occurs, which can be in a quarter other than when the reservation is booked. In contrast, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as the expense is incurred, which, in the case of performance advertising in particular, is typically in the quarter in which associated reservations are booked. As a result of this potential timing difference between when we record advertising expense and when we recognize associated revenue, we have historically experienced our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation checkouts for the year for our European and North American businesses. The first quarter of the year is typically our lowest level of profitability and may experience volatility in earnings growth rates due to these seasonal timing factors. For our Asia-Pacific business, we experience the highest levels of accommodation bookings in the third and fourth quarters of the year, and the highest levels of travel consumption in the fourth quarter. As the relative growth rates for these businesses fluctuate, the quarterly distribution of our operating results may vary. In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2016, our first quarter year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were positively impacted by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, as it did in 2015. Conversely, our second quarter 2016 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were adversely impacted by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, as it did in 2015. Similarly to 2015, in 2017 Easter will fall in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, and will therefore have a negative effect on our first quarter 2017 year-over-year growth rates and a positive effect on our second quarter 2017 year-over-year growth rates as compared to the same periods in 2016 when Easter fell in the first quarter. The timing of other holidays such as Chinese New Year, Carnival and Ramadan can also impact our quarterly year-over-year growth rates. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable advertising expense. In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted by decelerating gross bookings growth in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters. Conversely, in periods where our gross bookings growth rate accelerates, our operating margins are typically negatively impacted by relatively more variable advertising expense. In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted by accelerating gross bookings growth in the near term as a portion of the revenue recognized from such gross bookings will occur in future quarters. Other Factors We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel-related services. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual or extreme weather or natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, droughts and volcanic eruptions, travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, Zika, Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu, SARS and MERS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities or travel-related accidents, can disrupt travel or otherwise result in declines in travel demand. Because these events or concerns are largely unpredictable, they can dramatically and suddenly affect travel behavior by consumers, and therefore demand for our services, which can adversely affect our business and results of operations. See Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to grow gross profit and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain and highly competitive environment in which we operate makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain gross profit growth and profitability. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Our significant accounting policies and estimates are more fully described in Note 2 to the Consolidated 38 Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Our management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. Estimates are based on, among other things, historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies that involve significant estimates and judgments of management include the following: Stock-Based Compensation. We record stock-based compensation expense for equity-based awards over the recipient's service period based upon the grant date fair value of the award. A number of our equity awards have performance targets (a performance "contingency") which, if satisfied, can increase the number of shares issued to the recipients at the end of the performance period or, in certain instances, if not satisfied, reduce the number of shares issued to the recipients, sometimes to zero, at the end of the performance period. The performance periods for our performance based equity awards are typically three years. We record stock-based compensation expense for these performance-based awards based upon our estimate of the probable outcome at the end of the performance period (i.e., the estimated performance against the performance targets). We periodically adjust the cumulative stock-based compensation expense recorded when the probable outcome for these performance-based awards is updated based upon changes in actual and forecasted operating results. Stock-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 includes charges amounting to $20.7 million , $22.6 million and $20.6 million , respectively, representing the impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome of unvested performance share units. Our actual performance against the performance targets could differ materially from our estimates. We record stock-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures. In determining the estimated forfeiture rates, we periodically review actual forfeitures and update our estimates for future forfeitures, if necessary. To the extent that actual forfeiture rates differ from current estimates, a cumulative expense adjustment is recorded in the period in which the estimate is revised (see "Recent Accounting Pronouncements" described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for accounting changes that are effective January 1, 2017). Valuation of Goodwill, Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles . The application of the purchase method of accounting for business combinations requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Our estimates of the fair value are based upon assumptions that we believe are reasonable and, when we deem appropriate, include assistance from a third party valuation firm. The purchase price consideration is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price consideration over the net of the amounts allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination as of the acquisition date. We review goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. A substantial portion of our intangibles and goodwill relates to the acquisitions of OpenTable in July 2014 and KAYAK in May 2013. As of September 30, 2016 , we performed our annual goodwill impairment testing. Other than OpenTable, the fair values of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values. For OpenTable, we recognized a non-cash impairment charge for goodwill of $940.7 million , which is not tax deductible, resulting in an adjusted carrying value of OpenTable goodwill of $580.1 million as of September 30, 2016. The goodwill impairment charge was included in operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2016. OpenTables estimated fair value was determined using a combination of standard valuation techniques, including an income approach (discounted cash flows) and market approaches (EBITDA multiples of comparable publicly-traded companies and precedent transactions). Since the annual impairment test as of September 30, 2016 , there have been no further events or changes in circumstances to indicate a potential impairment. The goodwill impairment is primarily the result of a change in OpenTables business strategy that occurred during the third quarter of 2016. OpenTables post-acquisition strategy was premised on significant and rapid investment in international expansion and various other growth initiatives, resulting in near-term reduced earnings and profit margins but with the goal of achieving significantly increased revenues and profitability 39 in the long term. This strategy has resulted in limited progress to date. As a result, while OpenTable intends to continue to pursue and invest in international expansion and its other growth initiatives, it intends to do so in a more measured and deliberate manner. This change in strategy resulted in OpenTable updating its forecasted financial results to reflect (a) a material reduction in forecasted long-term financial results from these initiatives, partially offset by (b) improved earnings and profit margins in the near term as a result of the reduced investments. Based on the updated forecast, we estimated a significant reduction in the fair value of the OpenTable business and recorded the goodwill impairment discussed above. Future events and changing market conditions may lead us to again re-evaluate the assumptions reflected in the updated forecast, including key assumptions regarding OpenTable's expected growth rates and operating margins and the success and timing of its international expansion and other growth initiatives, as well as other key assumptions with respect to matters outside of our control, such as discount rates, currency exchange rates, market EBITDA comparables, and changes in accounting policies or practices, including the January 2017 accounting update that changes the goodwill impairment testing methodology (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). If OpenTable does not achieve the results currently expected, its investments, in particular its investments in its international expansion efforts and other growth initiatives, are not successful, or any of the assumptions underlying our estimate of the value of the OpenTable business, including those mentioned above, prove to be incorrect, we may further refine our forecast for the OpenTable business and recognize an additional goodwill impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, we evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate that the carrying amounts of long-lived assets and intangibles may not be recoverable. The significant factors that are considered that could trigger an impairment review include changes in business strategies, market conditions, or the manner of use of an asset; under performance relative to historical or expected future operating results; and negative industry or economic trends. In evaluating an asset for possible impairment, management estimates that asset's future undiscounted cash flows to measure whether the carrying value of the asset is recoverable. If it is determined that the asset is not recoverable, we measure the impairment based upon the fair value of the asset compared to its carrying value. The fair value represents the projected discounted cash flows of the asset over its remaining life. We tested the recoverability of OpenTables other long-lived assets and concluded there was no impairment as of September 30, 2016. Income Taxes. We determine our tax expense based on our income and statutory tax rates applicable in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Due to the complex nature of tax legislation and frequent changes with such associated legislation, significant judgment is required in computing our tax expense and determining our tax positions. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of temporary differences and tax planning strategies and record valuation allowances as required. We are subject to ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. To date, we have been audited in several taxing jurisdictions with no significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Although we believe that our tax filing positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Accordingly, we may incur additional tax expense based upon our assessment of the more likely than not outcomes or we may adjust previously recorded tax expense to reflect examination results. We intend to indefinitely reinvest the unremitted earnings of our international subsidiaries outside of the United States. At December 31, 2016 and 2015 , we had approximately $13.0 billion and $9.9 billion, respectively, of cumulative unremitted international earnings. We estimate that the deferred tax liability we would record if such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested internationally is approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2016 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements - See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details, which is incorporated into this Item 7 by reference thereto. 40 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2016 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2015 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units booked through our OTC brands by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked through our OTC brands by our customers, net of cancellations, and is widely used in the travel business. Our non-OTC brands (KAYAK and OpenTable) have different business metrics from those of our OTC brands and therefore search queries through KAYAK and restaurant reservations through OpenTable do not contribute to our gross bookings. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2016 2015 Change Agency $ 58,638 $ 47,969 22.2 % Merchant 9,449 7,559 25.0 % Total $ 68,087 $ 55,528 22.6 % Gross bookings increased by 22.6% for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 25% ), principally due to growth of 28.7% in accommodation room night reservations and growth of 11.2% in rental car day reservations, partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, a slight decrease in accommodation ADRs (the decline on a constant-currency basis was less than 1%) and decreases in airfares and airline ticket reservations. We believe that unit growth rates and total gross bookings and gross profit growth on a constant-currency basis, each of which exclude the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments for the travel services provided. Agency gross bookings increased by 22.2% for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , primarily due to growth in gross bookings from Booking.com agency retail accommodation room night reservations. Merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we facilitate payments for the travel services provided. Merchant gross bookings increased by 25.0% for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , primarily due to growth in gross bookings from the merchant accommodation reservation services for Booking.com and agoda.com, the merchant rental car reservation service for Rentalcars.com and the merchant airline ticket reservation service for priceline.com. Accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our services for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2016 2015 Change Room Nights 556.6 432.3 28.7 % Rental Car Days 66.6 59.9 11.2 % Airline Tickets 7.3 7.7 (5.2 )% Accommodation room night reservations increased by 28.7% for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , primarily due to strong execution by our brand teams to add accommodations to our websites, 41 advertise our brands to consumers and provide a continuously improving experience for customers on our desktop and mobile platforms. Rental car day reservations increased by 11.2% for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , due to an increase in rental car day reservations for Rentalcars.com. Airline ticket reservations decreased by 5.2% for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , due to a decline in priceline.com's retail airline ticket reservations and the discontinuation on September 1, 2016 of priceline.coms Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservation offering, partially offset by an increase in priceline.com's Express Deals airline ticket reservations. Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments for the travel services provided. Agency revenues consist primarily of travel reservation commissions, as well as certain GDS reservation booking fees and travel insurance fees, and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Substantially all of the revenue for Booking.com is agency revenue comprised of accommodation reservation commissions. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we facilitate payments for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction net revenues (i.e., the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged to us by travel service providers) and travel reservation commissions in connection with (a) the accommodation reservations provided through our merchant retail accommodation reservation services at agoda.com, Booking.com and priceline.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at Rentalcars.com and priceline.coms Express Deals reservation services; (2) transaction revenues representing the price of Name Your Own Price reservations charged to a customer (with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues); (3) ancillary fees, including damage excess waiver and travel insurance fees and certain GDS reservation booking fees; and (4) customer processing fees charged in connection with (a) priceline.com's opaque reservation services and (b) the merchant retail accommodation reservation services at priceline.com and agoda.com. Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for (a) sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers and (b) advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; (2) revenues earned by OpenTable for (a) reservation fees (fees paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees earned by OpenTable for restaurant reservation management services; (3) revenues earned by priceline.com for advertising on its websites; and (4) revenues generated by Booking.com's BookingSuite branded accommodation marketing and business analytics services. Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change Agency Revenues $ 7,982,116 $ 6,527,898 22.3 % Merchant Revenues 2,048,005 2,082,973 (1.7 )% Advertising and Other Revenues 712,885 613,116 16.3 % Total Revenues $ 10,743,006 $ 9,223,987 16.5 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues increased by 22.3% for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , primarily as a result of growth in agency accommodation room night reservations at Booking.com. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues decreased by 1.7% for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , primarily due to decreases in revenues from priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services, 42 partially offset by increases in our merchant price-disclosed accommodation reservation services, particularly at Booking.com, as well as our merchant price-disclosed rental car and airline ticket reservation services. On September 1, 2016, priceline.coms Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservation offering was discontinued. Our priceline.com Name Your Own Price reservation services, which declined year-over-year, are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues. Our other merchant revenues, which in total grew year-over-year, are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs. As a result, changes in Name Your Own Price reservation revenue disproportionately affect merchant revenues as compared to our other merchant revenues. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2016 consisted primarily of advertising revenues, restaurant reservation revenues and subscription revenues for restaurant reservation management services. Advertising and other revenues increased by 16.3% for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , primarily due to growth in our KAYAK business, reservation fees at OpenTable, advertising revenue at priceline.com and subscription revenue at OpenTable. Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change Cost of Revenues $ 428,314 $ 632,180 (32.2 )% For the year ended December 31, 2016 , cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost paid to travel service providers for priceline.com's Name Your Own Price and vacation package reservation services, net of applicable taxes and charges; and (2) fees paid to third parties by KAYAK and priceline.com to return travel itinerary information for consumer search queries. Cost of revenues decreased by 32.2% for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , primarily due to a decrease in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 was positively impacted by a reduction of travel transaction taxes of $5.1 million recorded in the third quarter of 2016 related to a cash refund from the State of Hawaii based on a favorable ruling in the first quarter of 2015. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 was positively impacted by a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the first quarter of 2015 and a reduction of travel transaction taxes of $13.7 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the third quarter of 2015, principally related to a cash refund from the State of Hawaii, in both cases based on the aforementioned favorable ruling. Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change Gross Profit $ 10,314,692 $ 8,591,807 20.1 % Gross Margin 96.0 % 93.1 % Total gross profit increased by 20.1% for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 23% ), primarily as a result of the increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , because our revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the year ended December 31, 2016 these revenues represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the year ended December 31, 2015 . Our price-disclosed reservation services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs, have been growing and priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services have been declining. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure for evaluating growth in our business. 43 Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2016 was positively impacted by a reduction of travel transaction taxes of $5.1 million recorded in the third quarter of 2016 related to a cash refund from the State of Hawaii based on a favorable ruling in the first quarter of 2015. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 was positively impacted by a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the first quarter of 2015 and a reduction of travel transaction taxes of $13.7 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the third quarter of 2015, principally related to a cash refund from the State of Hawaii, in both cases based on the aforementioned favorable ruling. Gross profit as a percentage of gross bookings was 15.1% for the year ended December 31, 2016, as compared to 15.5% for the year ended December 31, 2015. The decrease is due in part to the timing of booking versus travel resulting from the impact of accelerating gross bookings growth in the year ended December 31, 2016 and an expanding booking window (a lengthening of the average time between the making of a travel reservation and the travel). Other contributing factors to the variance are business mix impacts and the use of discounted closed user group rates. Our international operations accounted for approximately $9.1 billion of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to $7.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased by 22.3% for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 25% ). Gross profit attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by 5.7% for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 due to growth in gross profit for the U.S. businesses of KAYAK and OpenTable, partially offset by a decrease in gross profit for priceline.com resulting from higher favorable travel transaction tax adjustments recorded in 2015 as compared to 2016. Operating Expenses Advertising Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change Performance Advertising $ 3,479,287 $ 2,738,218 27.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 33.7 % 31.9 % Brand Advertising $ 295,698 $ 273,704 8.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.9 % 3.2 % Performance advertising expenses consist primarily of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; and (4) other performance-based advertisements. For the year ended December 31, 2016 , performance advertising expenses increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , primarily to generate increased gross bookings and gross profit. Performance advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2016 increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 due to growth of paid traffic channels, a year-over-year decline in advertising ROIs and timing of booking versus travel resulting from acceleration in gross bookings growth during the year. Brand advertising expenses are primarily related to our Booking.com, KAYAK, priceline.com and agoda.com businesses and consist mainly of television advertising, online video advertising (including the airing of our television advertising online) and online display advertising. For the year ended December 31, 2016 , brand advertising expenses increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , primarily due to increased online video and television advertising, including associated production costs, at Booking.com, partially offset by lower television advertising at KAYAK and priceline.com. In January 2016, we changed the presentation of advertising expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 44 Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change Sales and Marketing $ 435,225 $ 353,221 23.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.2 % 4.1 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card and other payment processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) customer relations costs; (4) provisions for customer chargebacks associated with merchant transactions; (5) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables; and (6) promotional and trade show costs. For the year ended December 31, 2016 , sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 due primarily to increased transaction volumes and a higher provision for customer chargebacks associated with merchant transactions. Personnel Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change Personnel $ 1,350,032 $ 1,166,226 15.8 % % of Total Gross Profit 13.1 % 13.6 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes, and employee health and other benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change General and Administrative $ 455,909 $ 415,420 9.7 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.4 % 4.8 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) personnel-related expenses such as travel, recruiting and training expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , due primarily to higher occupancy and office expenses related to the expansion of our international businesses, higher fees for outside professionals and higher personnel-related expenses related to increased headcount in our businesses. These increases were partially offset by $7.7 million of expense recognized in 2015 for a fair value adjustment to the contingent liability related to an acquisition. 45 Information Technology Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change Information Technology $ 142,393 $ 113,617 25.3 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.4 % 1.3 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; (3) outsourced data center costs; and (4) payments to outside consultants. Information technology expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 309,135 $ 272,494 13.4 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.0 % 3.2 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , primarily as a result of increased depreciation expenses due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build-outs to support growth and geographic expansion, as well as increased capitalized software development costs. Impairment of Goodwill Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change Impairment of Goodwill $ 940,700 $ N/A % of Total Gross Profit 9.1 % % During the year ended December 31, 2016 , we recognized a non-cash impairment charge for goodwill related to OpenTable, which is not tax deductible, of $940.7 million (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates included in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change Interest Income $ 94,946 $ 55,729 70.4 % Interest Expense (207,900 ) (160,229 ) 29.8 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (16,913 ) (26,087 ) (35.2 )% Impairment of Cost-method Investments (63,208 ) N/A Total $ (193,075 ) $ (130,587 ) 47.9 % For the year ended December 31, 2016 , interest income on cash and marketable securities increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , primarily due to an increase in the average invested balance and higher yields. Interest 46 expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes issued in March 2015, November 2015 and May 2016, partially offset by the maturity of our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes in March 2015. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. "Foreign currency transactions and other" includes foreign exchange gains or losses on derivative contracts, foreign exchange transaction gains or losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, and net realized gains or losses on investments. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to foreign exchange losses of $6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in foreign exchange losses of $19.6 million and $21.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Foreign exchange losses for the year ended December 31, 2015 included approximately $5.7 million of hedging cost and a foreign exchange loss related to the devaluation of the Argentine Peso. For the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 , we recognized $1.1 million and $2.2 million , respectively, of net realized gains related to investments. During the year ended December 31, 2016 , we recognized impairments of $63.2 million, most of which was not tax deductible, related to cost-method investments (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change Income Tax Expense $ 578,251 $ 576,960 0.2 % Our effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were 21.3% and 18.4% , respectively. Our 2016 effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%, due to lower international tax rates, partially offset by the non-deductible impairment charge for goodwill of $940.7 million related to OpenTable recognized in 2016 (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and the non-deductible impairment of our cost-method investment in Hotel Urbano recognized in 2016 (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Our 2015 effective tax rate differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate as a result of lower international tax rates, partially offset by U.S. state income taxes. The non-deductible impairment charges referred to above have caused our effective tax rate to be higher for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 . The increase has been partially offset by the favorable impact of an increased proportion of our income being taxed at lower international tax rates due to the growth of our international businesses and the tax benefits recorded in 2016 arising from U.S. state tax law changes resulting in a net decrease to deferred tax liabilities, mostly associated with acquired intangible assets. A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment, which had a significant beneficial impact on the Company's effective tax rate for those periods. While we expect Booking.com to continue to qualify for Innovation Box Tax treatment with respect to a portion of its earnings for the foreseeable future, the loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit, whether due to a change in tax law or a determination by the Dutch government that Booking.com's activities are not "innovative" or for any other reason, would substantially increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our results of operations. See Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " We may not be able to maintain our 'Innovation Box Tax' benefit. " Until our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, most of our U.S. income will not be subject to a cash tax liability, other than U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our international income except in countries where we have net operating loss carryforwards. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income faster than our U.S. businesses over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international businesses generate an increasing share of our pretax income and as our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire. 47 As of December 31, 2016 , we held approximately $12.6 billion of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments outside of the United States. We intend to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of our international subsidiaries outside of the United States. If that intention changes and we decide to repatriate that cash to the United States, whether due to cash needs in the United States or otherwise, we would incur related U.S. income tax expense, but we would only make income tax payments when we repatriate the cash. We would pay only U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and U.S. state income taxes as long as we have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset our U.S. taxable income. As of December 31, 2016 , we had net operating loss carryforwards of $727.8 million and $583.9 million for U.S. federal and state tax purposes, respectively. If our foreign earnings were repatriated, we could be subject to a cash income tax liability on the earnings of our U.S. businesses sooner than would otherwise have been the case. After our net operating loss carryforwards have been fully utilized or expire, foreign tax credits associated with the repatriation of international cash may be used to reduce U.S. federal taxes on the repatriation. 48 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2015 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2014 Operating and Statistical Metrics Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2015 2014 Change Agency $ 47,969 $ 42,892 11.8 % Merchant 7,559 7,409 2.0 % Total $ 55,528 $ 50,300 10.4 % Gross bookings increased by 10.4% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 25%), principally due to growth of 24.9% in accommodation room night reservations, 2% growth on a constant-currency basis in ADRs and growth of 15.6% in rental car day reservations, partially offset by the impact foreign exchange rate fluctuations. We believe that unit growth rates and total gross bookings and gross profit growth on a constant-currency basis, each of which exclude the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments for the travel services provided. Agency gross bookings increased 11.8% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to growth in gross bookings from Booking.com agency accommodation room night reservations, as well as growth in gross bookings by priceline.com and Rentalcars.com agency retail rental car reservation services, and priceline.com and agoda.com agency retail hotel reservation services, partially offset by lower retail airfares. Merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we facilitate payments for the travel services provided. Merchant gross bookings increased 2.0% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to increases in gross bookings by merchant retail hotel reservation services for Booking.com and priceline.com, Rentalcars.com's rental car reservation service, and priceline.com's Express Deals hotel reservation service as well as the inclusion of our Rocketmiles hotel reservation service since its acquisition in February 2015. These increases were partially offset by declines in gross bookings by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services and the impact of the stronger U.S. Dollar on agoda.com's merchant retail hotel reservation service. The U.S. Dollar was significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies throughout 2015 compared to 2014, which significantly adversely affected the growth of our agency and merchant gross bookings, expressed in U.S. Dollars. Accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our services for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2015 2014 Change Room Nights 432.3 346.0 24.9 % Rental Car Days 59.9 51.8 15.6 % Airline Tickets 7.7 7.8 (1.6 )% Accommodation room night reservations increased by 24.9% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, due to an increase in Booking.com, agoda.com and priceline.com accommodation room night reservations and the inclusion of Rocketmiles accommodation room night reservations since its acquisition in February 2015. Booking.com included over 850,000 properties on its website as of February 15, 2016, which included approximately 390,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website), compared to over 635,000 properties (including approximately 269,000 vacation rental properties) a year ago. In September 2015, Booking.com changed the way it calculates property counts. As a result, properties that are contracted with Booking.com but temporarily do not have availability on Booking.com (for example properties that are closed during their off-peak season or for renovations) will remain 49 included in Booking.com's property counts during these temporary periods. Booking.com previously excluded properties that were temporarily unavailable for booking. We believe that continuously including them provides a more consistent and useful property count. Rental car day reservations increased by 15.6% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, due to an increase in price-disclosed rental car day reservations for Rentalcars.com and priceline.com, partially offset by a decline in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price rental car day reservations. Airline ticket reservations decreased by 1.6% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, due to a decline in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservations. Revenues Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Agency Revenues $ 6,527,898 $ 5,845,802 11.7 % Merchant Revenues 2,082,973 2,186,054 (4.7 )% Advertising and Other Revenues 613,116 410,115 49.5 % Total Revenues $ 9,223,987 $ 8,441,971 9.3 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased 11.7% compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com, the agency rental car businesses of Rentalcars.com and priceline.com and the agency hotel businesses of priceline.com and agoda.com. The U.S. Dollar was significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies throughout 2015 compared to 2014, which significantly adversely affected the growth of our agency revenues, expressed in U.S. Dollars. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 decreased 4.7% compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to decreases in revenues from priceline.com's Name Your Own Price hotel, airline ticket and rental car reservation services, partially offset by increases in our merchant price-disclosed hotel and rental car businesses. Our priceline.com Name Your Own Price reservation services, which declined year-over-year, are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues. Our other merchant revenues, which in total grew year-over-year, are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs. As a result, changes in Name Your Own Price reservation revenue disproportionately affect merchant revenues as compared to our other merchant revenues. The U.S. Dollar was significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies throughout 2015 compared to 2014, which significantly adversely affected the growth of our merchant revenues, expressed in U.S. Dollars. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2015 consisted primarily of advertising revenues, restaurant reservation revenues and subscription revenues for restaurant reservation management services. Advertising and other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased 49.5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily as a result of the inclusion of a full year of OpenTable revenues in 2015 compared to only a partial year's results in 2014, as well as growth in our KAYAK business. Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Cost of Revenues $ 632,180 $ 857,841 (26.3 )% 50 For the year ended December 31, 2015, cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost paid to travel service providers for priceline.com's Name Your Own Price and vacation package reservation services, net of applicable taxes and charges; and (2) fees paid to third parties by KAYAK and priceline.com to return travel itinerary information for consumer search queries. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 decreased by 26.3%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. For the year ended December 31, 2015, cost of revenue benefited from a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the first quarter of 2015 related to a favorable ruling in the State of Hawaii. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized a net reduction in cost of revenue in the third quarter of 2015 of $13.7 million related to travel transaction taxes, principally due to a cash refund from the State of Hawaii for the aforementioned favorable ruling. Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Gross Profit $ 8,591,807 $ 7,584,130 13.3 % Gross Margin 93.1 % 89.8 % Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased by 13.3% compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 27%), primarily as a result of the increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, because our revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the year ended December 31, 2015 these revenues represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the year ended December 31, 2014. Our price-disclosed reservation services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs, have been growing faster than priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure for evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $7.4 billion of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to $6.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased by 11.6% for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 (growth on a constant-currency basis was approximately 28%). Gross profit attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by 25.0% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 was positively impacted by the inclusion of OpenTable, which benefited year-over-year comparisons through the anniversary of the acquisition on July 24, 2015. In addition, gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 was positively impacted by a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded in the first quarter of 2015 related to a favorable ruling in the State of Hawaii. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 was also positively impacted by a net reduction in cost of revenue in the third quarter of 2015 of $13.7 million related to travel transaction taxes, principally due to a cash refund from the State of Hawaii for the aforementioned favorable ruling. The U.S. Dollar was significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies throughout 2015 compared to 2014. At these exchange rates, the growth of our total and international gross bookings, expressed in U.S. Dollars, was significantly adversely impacted in 2015. 51 Operating Expenses Advertising Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Performance Advertising $ 2,738,218 $ 2,334,453 17.3 % % of Total Gross Profit 31.9 % 30.8 % Brand Advertising $ 273,704 $ 257,077 6.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.2 % 3.4 % Performance advertising expenses consist primarily of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; and (4) banner, pop-up and other Internet and mobile advertisements. For the year ended December 31, 2015, performance advertising expenses increased 17.3%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to increased spending on online performance marketing to generate increased gross bookings. Performance advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 benefited from the inclusion of OpenTable because OpenTable spends a lower percentage of gross profit on performance advertising relative to our other brands. In addition, the share of our business coming directly to our websites with no associated performance advertising expense increased during the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. These favorable impacts were more than offset for the year ended December 31, 2015 by a year-over-year decline in advertising ROIs. Brand advertising expenses are primarily related to our Booking.com, KAYAK and priceline.com businesses and primarily consist of television advertising. For the year ended December 31, 2015, brand advertising increased 6.5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to increased online video and television advertising, including associated production costs, at Booking.com, partially offset by lower television advertising at KAYAK and, to a lesser extent, priceline.com. Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Sales and Marketing $ 353,221 $ 310,910 13.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.1 % 4.1 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card and other payment processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) customer relations costs; (4) public relations costs; (5) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables; and (6) provisions for customer chargebacks. For the year ended December 31, 2015, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 due primarily to increased gross booking volumes, customer relations costs and the inclusion of a full year of OpenTable's results as compared to only a partial year's results in 2014. Personnel Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Personnel $ 1,166,226 $ 950,191 22.7 % % of Total Gross Profit 13.6 % 12.5 % 52 Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes and employee health benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses. Additionally, the inclusion of a full year of OpenTable's results in our 2015 consolidated results as compared to only a partial year's results in 2014 contributed to the increase in personnel expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change General and Administrative $ 415,420 $ 352,869 17.7 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.8 % 4.7 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) occupancy and office expenses; (2) personnel-related expenses such as travel, recruiting and training expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, due to higher occupancy and office expenses related to the expansion of our international businesses and higher personnel-related expenses related to increased headcount in all of our businesses. Additionally, the inclusion of a full year of OpenTable's results in our 2015 consolidated results as compared to only a partial year's results in 2014 contributed to the increase in general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Information Technology Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Information Technology $ 113,617 $ 97,498 16.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.3 % 1.3 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; (3) outsourced data center costs; and (4) payments to outside consultants. Information technology expense increased during the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. Additionally, the inclusion of a full year of OpenTable's results in our 2015 consolidated results as compared to only a partial year's results in 2014 contributed to the increase in information technology expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 272,494 $ 207,820 31.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.2 % 2.7 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. For the year ended December 31, 2015, depreciation and amortization expense increased, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, due primarily to increased intangible amortization from the OpenTable acquisition and increased depreciation expense due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build-outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com 53 business. Additionally, the inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 contributed to the increase in depreciation expense for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Interest Income $ 55,729 $ 13,933 300.0 % Interest Expense (160,229 ) (88,353 ) 81.4 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (26,087 ) (9,444 ) 176.2 % Total $ (130,587 ) $ (83,864 ) 55.7 % For the year ended December 31, 2015, interest income on cash and marketable securities increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to an increase in the average invested balance and higher yields. Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes issued in August 2014, September 2014, March 2015 and November 2015, partially offset by the maturity of our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes in March 2015. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange losses of $6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to foreign exchange gains of $13.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in losses of $21.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, which includes approximately $5.7 million of hedging cost and a foreign exchange loss recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015 related to the devaluation of the Argentine Peso, compared to foreign exchange losses of $17.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized $2.2 million of net realized gains related to investments, which are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The conversion of our convertible debt prior to maturity in the year ended December 31, 2014 resulted in non-cash losses of $6.3 million, which are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Income Tax Expense $ 576,960 $ 567,695 1.6 % Our effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 18.4% and 19.0%, respectively. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%, due to lower tax rates outside the United States, partially offset by U.S. state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. Our effective tax rate was lower for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, due to an increased proportion of our income being taxed at lower international tax rates. A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment, which had a significant beneficial impact on the Company's effective tax rate for those periods. 54 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2016 , we had $13.9 billion in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments. Approximately $12.6 billion is held by our international subsidiaries and is denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars, Euros and, to a lesser extent, British Pounds Sterling and other currencies. Cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments are comprised of U.S. and international corporate bonds, U.S. and international government securities, high-grade commercial paper, U.S. government agency securities, convertible debt securities and equity securities of Ctrip, money market funds and time deposits (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). We intend to indefinitely reinvest the unremitted earnings of our international subsidiaries outside of the United States. At December 31, 2016 , we had approximately $13.0 billion cumulative unremitted international earnings. We estimate that the deferred tax liability we would record if such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested internationally is approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2016 . If we repatriate cash to the United States, we would utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and beyond that amount incur additional tax payments in the United States. In May 2016, we issued Senior Notes due June 1, 2026, with an interest rate of 3.6% (the "2026 Notes") for an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion . Interest on the 2026 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1, beginning December 1, 2016. The net proceeds of these notes may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include share repurchases, repayment of debt and acquisitions. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the 2026 Notes. In June 2015, we entered into a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.50% ; or the greatest of (a) Bank of America, N.A.'s prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.5% , and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00% , plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50% . Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.085% to 0.20% . The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $70.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50.0 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2016 , there were no borrowings outstanding and approximately $3.8 million of letters of credit issued under the facility. Our Convertible Senior Notes due March 15, 2018, with an interest rate of 1.0% (the "2018 Notes"), are convertible at the option of the holders as of December 31, 2016 , and, accordingly, we reported the carrying value of the 2018 Notes as a current liability in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2016 . We have received a notice for conversion of $3 thousand aggregate principal amount for the 2018 Notes through February 24, 2017. If note holders exercise their option to convert, we would be required to repay the principal amount of the 2018 Notes in cash and may deliver shares of common stock or cash, at our option, to satisfy the conversion value in excess of the principal amount. We may borrow under the revolving credit facility to satisfy our obligation. In September 2016, we invested $25 million in a Ctrip six-year senior convertible note issued at par value and $25 million in Ctrip ordinary shares. In September 2016, we signed a turnkey agreement to construct an office building in the Netherlands for the future headquarters of Booking.com for approximately 270 million Euros. Upon signing the agreement, we paid approximately 48 million Euros to the developer, principally related to acquired land use rights, and we expect to pay approximately 34 million Euros related to building construction during 2017, with the remainder of payments being paid periodically beginning in 2018 until the expected completion of the building in late 2020. We will also incur capital expenditures to fit out and furnish the office space. We utilized international cash for the September 2016 payment and we expect all future payments to be made from international cash. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During the year ended December 31, 2016 , we repurchased 762,984 shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $1.0 billion , which includes stock repurchases in December 2016 of 10,215 shares for an aggregate cost of $15.0 million that were settled in January 2017. As of December 31, 2016 , the Company had a remaining authorization of $2.1 billion to purchase its common stock. In the first quarter of 2017, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of our common stock, in addition to amounts previously authorized. We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. We 55 may use cash-on-hand and cash generated by our operations in the United States to fund our share repurchases. We may also utilize our revolving credit facility or raise funds through the debt capital markets to fund share repurchases. On February 7, 2017, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire the Momondo Group. We will use approximately $550 million of our international cash to fund this acquisition. The deal is expected to close later in the year, subject to regulatory approval. Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from consumers and then we pay most of our travel service providers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant swings in accounts receivable, deferred merchant bookings and travel service provider payables seasonally depending on the absolute level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 , was $3.9 billion , resulting from net income of $2.1 billion , a favorable impact of $1.6 billion for non-cash items not affecting cash flows and net favorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $215.9 million . The changes in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2016 , were primarily related to a $516.4 million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, offset by a $284.2 million increase in accounts receivable. The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were principally associated with impairment of goodwill, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, impairment of cost-method investments, amortization of debt discount on our convertible notes and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015, was $3.1 billion, resulting from net income of $2.6 billion and a favorable impact of $558.9 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $8.0 million. The changes in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2015, were primarily related to a $166.2 million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, offset by a $68.7 million increase in accounts receivable and $81.6 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were primarily associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, was $2.9 billion, resulting from net income of $2.4 billion and a favorable impact of non-cash items not affecting cash flows of $518.0 million, slightly offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $25.4 million. The changes in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2014, were primarily related to a $203.9 million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, offset by a $182.2 million increase in accounts receivable and $48.9 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were primarily associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount and deferred income taxes. Net cash used in investing activities was $3.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 were principally affected by net purchases of investments of $3.1 billion and $48.5 million for the acquisition of land use rights. Net cash used in investing activities was $3.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 were affected by net purchases of investments of $3.6 billion, $140.3 million used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, partially offset by net proceeds of $5.2 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts. Net cash used in investing activities was $2.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 were affected by payments of $2.5 billion for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and net cash payments of $80.3 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts slightly offset by net sales of investments of $350.3 million. Cash invested in the purchase of property and equipment was $219.9 million , $173.9 and $131.5 million in the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increases for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were related to additional data center capacity and new offices to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com and agoda.com brands in 2016 and principally related to our Booking.com brand in 2015. Net cash provided by financing activities was $57.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily consisted of net proceeds of $994.7 million from the issuance of Senior Notes, excess tax benefits on stock-based awards and other equity deductions of $61.0 million and the exercise of employee stock options of $15.6 million , partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $1.0 billion . Net cash used in financing activities was $730.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 primarily consisted of treasury stock purchases of $3.1 billion, payments of $147.6 million related to 56 the conversion of Senior Notes and payment of $10.7 million related to the settlement of the acquisition-date estimated contingent liability related to an acquisition, primarily offset by the total proceeds of $2.4 billion from the issuance of Senior Notes, excess tax benefits on stock-based awards of $101.5 million and the exercise of employee stock options of $20.9 million. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014. Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily consisted of total proceeds of $2.3 billion from the issuance of Convertible Senior Notes and Euro denominated Senior Notes, excess tax benefits on stock-based awards of $23.4 million and the exercise of employee stock options of $16.4 million, partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $750.4 million and payments of $125.1 million related to the conversion of Senior Notes. Contingencies French tax authorities recently concluded an audit that started in 2013 of the years 2003 through 2012 to determine whether Booking.com is in compliance with its tax obligations in France. Booking.com received formal assessments in December 2015 in which the French tax authorities claim that Booking.com has a permanent establishment in France and seek to recover unpaid income taxes and value-added taxes of approximately 356 million Euros, the majority of which would represent penalties and interest. We believe that Booking.com has been, and continues to be, in compliance with French tax law and we intend to contest the assessments. If we are unable to resolve the matter with the French authorities, we would expect to challenge the assessments in the French courts. In order to contest the assessments in court, we may be required to pay, upfront, the full amount or a significant part of any such assessments, though any such payment would not constitute an admission by us that we owe the taxes. At the end of 2016, French authorities announced their intention to also audit the tax years 2013 to 2015, which could result in additional assessments. See Part I Item IA Risk Factors - " We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. " A number of U.S. jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against online travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). In addition, a number of U.S. states, counties and municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes. For additional information, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I Item 1A Risk Factors - " Adverse application of U.S. state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. " in this Annual Report. As a result of this litigation and other attempts by U.S. jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual (including estimated interest and penalties) for the potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes in the amount of approximately $27 million as of both December 31, 2016 and 2015 . The accrual is based on our estimate of the probable cost of resolving these issues. Our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded. An estimate for a reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount accrued cannot be reasonably made. If we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash we believe that it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. The following table represents our material contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2016 : Payments due by Period (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More than 5 Years Operating lease obligations (1) $ 523,820 $ 102,339 $ 193,885 $ 134,124 $ 93,472 Land lease obligation (1) 63,851 1,317 2,633 2,633 57,268 Building construction obligation (1) 233,385 34,860 136,516 62,009 Senior Notes (2) 8,481,228 137,794 1,260,587 2,250,337 4,832,510 Revolving credit facility (3) 9,447 3,188 5,075 1,184 Earnout - acquisition 9,170 9,170 Total (4) $ 9,320,901 $ 279,498 $ 1,607,866 $ 2,450,287 $ 4,983,250 (1) See the section on " Operating Leases " and " Building Construction " section of Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details. (2) Represents the aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes outstanding as of December 31, 2016 and cumulative interest to maturity of $1.1 billion. Convertible debt does not reflect the market value in excess of the outstanding 57 principal amount because we can settle the conversion premium amount in cash or shares of common stock at our option. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) Represents fees on uncommitted funds and outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2016 . (4) We reported "Other long-term liabilities" of $139 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016 , of which approximately $53 million related to deferred rents, approximately $30 million related to unrecognized tax benefits (see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and approximately $27 million related to our accrual for the potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes (see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). A variety of factors could affect the timing of payments for the liabilities related to travel transaction taxes and unrecognized tax benefits. We believe that these matters will likely not be resolved in the next twelve months and accordingly we have classified the estimated liability as non-current in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Therefore, we have excluded long-term liabilities of $130 million from the contractual obligations table above because we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of such payments or the liability is related to deferred rents, which represents the difference in rent expense recognized in the income statements and rent payments related to operating leases. We believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, if during that period or thereafter, we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plan, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, revenue growth or sustained profitability may not be realized, and future borrowings or equity sales may not be available in amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies or repay our indebtedness. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. As of December 31, 2016 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.