Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, and the Section entitled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Form 10-Q. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, this discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Overview We are a leading online travel company that offers our customers hotel and accommodation reservations through the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda.com brands. In the United States, we also offer our customers reservations for car rentals, airline tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises through the priceline.com brand. We offer car rental reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands, including Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda.com and rentalcars.com, collectively as the "Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include Booking.com, Agoda.com and rentalcars.com, which are independently managed and operated international brands. Our principal goal is to serve our customers with worldwide leadership in online hotel, accommodation and rental car reservations. Our business is driven primarily by international results. During the year ended December 31, 2012, our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 82% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately 92% of our consolidated operating income. Given that our international business is primarily comprised of hotel reservation services, and that hotel reservations also represent a significant majority of our domestic business, gross profit earned in connection with the reservation of hotel room nights represents a substantial majority of our gross profit. Our priceline.com brand in the United States offers merchant Name Your Own Price travel services (sometimes referred to as "opaque" travel services because certain elements of the service are not disclosed to the customer prior to booking), which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue. Retail, or price-disclosed, travel services (including semi-opaque travel services) offered by both our U.S. and international brands are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between Name Your Own Price and retail travel services. Gross profit reflects the net margin earned for both our Name Your Own Price and retail travel services. Consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business. At present, we derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of price-disclosed hotels, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our price-disclosed hotel, rental car, and vacation package reservation services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservation services; Global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees related to our Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservation services, and price-disclosed airline ticket and rental car services; and Other gross profit derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites. Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in the number of hotel room night reservations booked through our hotel reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the high growth of travel overall in emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America, and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build hotel supply, content and distribution and to improve the customer experience on our websites. We experienced strong year-over-year growth in recent years, though that growth has generally decelerated. For example, in the first quarter of 2013, our hotel room night reservation growth was 38%, a substantial deceleration from 47% room night reservation growth in the first quarter of 2012. Given the sheer size of our hotel reservation business, we believe it is highly likely that our year-over-year growth rates will continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate. For example, our first quarter 2013 room-night growth of 38% was unchanged from the growth rate experienced in the fourth quarter of 2012, which in turn reflected slight acceleration from 36% in the third quarter of 2012. The fourth quarter growth was driven in part by high rates of growth in Asia-Pacific and South America, which 27 typically represent a larger proportion of our business in the fourth quarter based on seasonality. The first quarter growth reflected improving results in our priceline.com business and strong results for our international businesses. However, we expect the long term deceleration trend to continue, and we therefore expect to experience further deceleration in growth rates in the second quarter of 2013 and beyond. Many governments around the world, including the U.S. government and certain European governments, are operating at very large financial deficits. Failure to reach political consensus regarding workable solutions to these issues has resulted in a high level of uncertainty regarding the future economic outlook. This uncertainty, as well as concern over governmental austerity measures including higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. Over the past year, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates and weaker trends in hotel average daily rates ("ADRs") across many regions of the world, particularly in those European countries that appear to be most affected by economic uncertainties. We believe that these business trends are likely impacted by weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns. The uncertainty of macro-economic factors and their impact on consumer behavior across regions, which may differ, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Large, established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating - and we believe intend to further create - inroads into online travel, both in the United States and internationally. For example, following its acquisition of ITA Software, Inc., a major flight information software company, Google launched a flight search tool that enables consumers to find fares, schedules and availability directly on Google and generally excludes participation by online travel agents ("OTAs") such as us within the search results. Google has also invested in HomeAway, a publicly traded vacation home rental service, and launched "Hotel Finder," a utility that allows consumers to search and compare hotel accommodations based on parameters set by the consumer and that Google has at times placed at or near the top of hotel-related search results. In addition, Microsoft has launched Bing Travel , which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online and predicts the best time to purchase them. "Meta-search" services leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the consumer's specific itinerary across travel service provider (e.g., airlines or hotels), OTA and other websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers. Furthermore, certain travel service providers limit OTA participation within the meta-search results. Some meta-search services that offer consumers the ability to make hotel reservations directly through their websites may evolve into more traditional OTAs. Meta-search services intend to appeal to consumers by showing more detailed travel search results than may be available through OTAs or other websites, which could lead to travel service providers or others gaining a larger share of search traffic or may ultimately lead to search engines executing transactions within their own websites. If Google (the largest search engine in the world), Bing or other leading search engines refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, or otherwise favor supplier websites or other travel service websites over OTAs, including us, or if meta-search or travel research services limit our participation within their search results, it would likely become more difficult and expensive for us to generate traffic to our websites and therefore to maintain or grow our market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Several major hotel companies, comprising Choice Hotels International, Hilton Worldwide, Hyatt, InterContinental Hotels Group, Wyndham Hotel Group, Marriott, La Quinta and Millennium, launched Room Key, an online hotel reservation service that competes directly with our hotel reservation services. The hotel companies that own Room Key have a stated goal of driving consumers directly to their brand websites, thus reducing the share received by OTAs. They may also attempt to improve their competitive position by offering lower room rates, better room availability or additional features or amenities through Room Key than are available through services like ours. If Room Key is successful, our share of the online hotel room night reservation market could be negatively affected and our business could suffer. There has been a proliferation of new channels through which hotels can offer hotel room reservations. For example, some hotels offer room reservations through daily deal websites such as Groupon and Living Social, which sell coupons to customers at a substantial discount. In 2011, Expedia, one of our largest competitors, entered into a partnership with Groupon to sell hotel room reservations to Groupon customers under the Groupon Getaways brand name. New entrants, such as BackBid, GuestMob, Tingo, Hipmunk and Room 77, have developed new and differentiated offerings that endeavor to provide savings on hotel rooms to consumers and that compete directly with us. If any of these new services are successful, we may experience less demand for our services and are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. Widespread adoption of mobile devices, such as the iPhone, Android-enabled smart phones, and tablets such as the iPad, coupled with the improved web browsing functionality and development of thousands of useful apps available on these devices, is driving substantial traffic and commerce activity to mobile platforms. We have experienced a significant shift of 28 business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Our major competitors and certain new market entrants are offering mobile applications for travel products and other functionality, including proprietary last-minute discounts for hotel bookings. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. The gross profit earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, hotel reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. We have made significant progress creating mobile offerings, which have received strong reviews, solid download trends, and are driving a material and increasing share of our business. We believe that mobile bookings present an opportunity for growth and are necessary to maintain and grow our business as consumers increasingly turn to mobile devices instead of a personal computer and to mobile applications instead of a web browser. If we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new and differentiated mobile offerings, and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, we could lose market share to existing competitors or new entrants. Apple, Inc., one of the most successful companies in the world and producer of, among other things, the iPhone and iPad, obtained a patent for "iTravel," a mobile app that would allow a traveler to check in for a travel reservation. In addition, Apple's most recent iPhone operating system includes "Passbook," a virtual wallet app that holds tickets, boarding passes, coupons and gift cards, and along with iTravel, may be indicative of Apple's intent to enter the travel reservations business in some capacity. Apple has substantial market share in the smart phone category and controls integration of offerings, including travel services, into its mobile operating system. Apple also has more experience producing and developing mobile apps and has access to greater resources than we have. Apple may use or expand iTravel, Passbook, Siri (Apple's voice recognition concierge service) or another mobile app as a means of entering the travel reservations marketplace. Similarly, Google's Android operating system is the leading smart phone operating system in the world. As a result, Google could leverage its Android operating system to give its travel services a competitive advantage, either technically or with prominence on its Google Play app store or within its mobile search results. To the extent Apple or Google use their mobile operating systems or app distribution channels to favor their own travel service offerings, our business could be harmed. We use online search engines, price comparison and travel research services, and affiliate marketing as primary means of generating traffic to our websites. As a result, our online advertising expense has increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue. In addition, our online advertising has grown faster than our gross profit due to (1) lower returns on investment ("ROIs") from our online advertising, (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group and (3) channel mix within certain of our brands. Our online advertising ROIs have recently been down year-over-year. Furthermore, our international brands are growing faster than our priceline.com U.S. brand, and spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. Finally, certain of our brands are obtaining an increasing share of traffic through paid online advertising channels. Advertising efficiency is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates and the extent to which we are successful in converting paid traffic to booking customers and then having customers return directly to our websites and mobile apps for future bookings. International Trends . The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet adoption rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the United States. However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. We expect that over the long-term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. Our growth has primarily been generated by our international hotel reservation service brands, Booking.com and Agoda.com. Booking.com, our most significant brand, includes over 295,000 hotels and accommodations on its website as of May 3, 2013 (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from both a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online hotel and accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. As our international business represents the substantial majority of our results, we expect to continue to see our operating results and other financial metrics largely driven by international performance. For example, certain newer markets in which we operate that are in earlier stages of development have lower operating margins compared to more mature markets, 29 which could have a negative impact on our overall margins as these markets increase in size over time. Also, we intend to continue to invest in adding properties to our websites. Many of the newer properties we add, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms, lower ADRs or higher credit risk, and may appeal to a smaller subset of customers (for example, hostels and bed and breakfasts), and therefore may also negatively impact our margins over time. Another impact of the size of our international business is our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. Because we are conducting a substantial majority of our business outside the United States and are reporting our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international business are translated from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation. For example, a strengthening of the Euro increases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars, while a weakening of the Euro decreases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars. Greece, Ireland, Portugal and certain other European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt have had difficulty refinancing their debt. Concern around devaluation or abandonment of the Euro common currency, or that sovereign default risk may be more widespread and could include the United States, has led to significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the U.S. Dollar and other currencies. We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results. However, such derivative instruments are short term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuation that could impact our foreign currency denominated gross bookings, revenue or gross profit (see Note 5 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). For the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, revenue from our international business grew year-over-year approximately 45% as reported in U.S. Dollars and on a local currency basis. Domestic Trends . Competition in domestic online travel remains intense and online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantages. In particular, the competition to provide "opaque" hotel reservation services to consumers, an area in which our priceline.com U.S. business has been a leader, has become more intense. For example, Expedia makes opaque hotel room reservations available on its principal website under the name "Expedia Unpublished Rates" and has supported this initiative with steeper discounts through lower margins. As with our opaque Name Your Own Price hotel booking service, the name of the hotel is not disclosed until after booking. We believe these offerings, in particular "Expedia Unpublished Rates", have adversely impacted the market share and year-over-year growth rate for our opaque hotel service, which experienced a decline in room night reservations in 2012 compared to 2011 and a slight decline in room night reservations in the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012. This decline may have been exacerbated by a shift in our advertising beginning in 2012 to focus on our non-opaque hotel reservation services. In addition, some hotels offer discounted room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social. If Expedia or others are successful in growing their opaque and semi-opaque hotel reservation services, and/or "daily deal" websites are successful in garnering a sizable share of discounted hotel bookings, we may have less consumer demand for our opaque and semi-opaque hotel reservation services over time, and we would face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. In an effort to compete more effectively against these new offerings, in 2012 we launched Express Deals, a semi-opaque price-disclosed hotel reservation service. However, Express Deals may not be successful at recovering or growing domestic hotel reservation service market share. As a result, our share of the discount hotel reservation market in the United States could further decrease. While demand for online travel services in the United States continues to experience annualized growth, we believe that the domestic market share of third-party distributors is impacted in part by a concerted initiative by travel service providers to direct customers to their own websites in an effort to reduce distribution expenses and establish more direct control over their pricing. The launch of Room Key discussed above is demonstrative of such efforts. In addition, certain airlines have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online channel other than their own website. Travel service providers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours. Domestic airlines have reduced capacity and increased fares since the latter part of 2009, a trend which may continue. Decreases in capacity reduce the amount of airline tickets available, while significant increases in average airfares have adversely impacted leisure travel demand. Reduced airline capacity and demand negatively impact our priceline.com air ticket reservation business, which in turn has negative repercussions on our priceline.com hotel and rental car businesses. Our Name Your Own Price rental car business was negatively impacted in 2012 by an increase in the utilization of rental car fleets, resulting in less opaque rental car availability. Although availability improved for us in the first quarter of 2013, we expect continued variability in the breadth and depth of discounted airline tickets and rental car rates made available to us in the future, depending on market conditions from time to time. 30 Seasonality . A meaningful amount of retail gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. However, we generally do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs. From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which bookings are generated. As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for the year for our North American and European businesses. However, we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters. Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results. In addition, our Name Your Own Price services are generally non-refundable in nature, and accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking is generated. However, we recognize revenue generated from our retail hotel services at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel. Therefore, if our retail hotel business continues to grow faster than our Name Our Own Price services, we expect our quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal factors. In addition, the date on which Easter falls can have an impact on our first and second quarters. For example, in 2013 our first quarter growth rates in revenue, gross profit and operating income were favorably affected as a result of Easter falling in the first quarter as compared to the same period in 2012, and therefore those growth rates could be negatively impacted in our second quarter 2013 as compared to the same period in 2012. Other Factors . We believe that our success will depend in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, higher oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, volcanic eruptions (such as the April 2010 eruption of a volcano in Iceland), travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities or travel related accidents, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and impair our ability to effectively implement all or some of the initiatives described above. For example, in late 2012 Hurricane Sandy disrupted travel in the northeastern United States. In early 2011, Japan was struck by a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency. In October 2011, severe flooding in Thailand, a key market for our Agoda.com business and the Asian business of Booking.com, negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market. In addition, in early 2010, Thailand experienced disruptive civil unrest, which caused the temporary relocation of Agoda.com's Thailand-based operations. Future natural disasters or civil or political unrest could further disrupt our business and operations. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to grow gross profit and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain gross profit growth and profitability. In November 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire KAYAK Software Corporation, a leading travel meta-search service, in a stock and cash transaction. Under the terms of the agreement, the transaction values KAYAK at $1.8 billion ($1.65 billion net of cash acquired) or $40 per share of KAYAK common stock, with $500 million to be paid in cash, which is expected to be made from cash on hand in the United States, and $1.3 billion to be paid in shares of our common stock and assumed stock options (subject to a volume-weighted average trading price calculation and a collar on the value of our common stock). The closing of the transaction is expected to occur on or about May 21, 2013. 31 Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 Operating Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking activity generated by our travel services. Specifically, reservations of hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units purchased by our customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers and is widely used in the travel business. International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our Booking.com, Agoda.com and rentalcars.com businesses and domestic gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our priceline.com business, in each case without regard to the travel destination or the location of the customer purchasing the travel. Gross bookings resulting from hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our international and U.S. operations for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2013 2012 Change International $ 7,783 $ 5,451 42.8 % Domestic 1,370 1,260 8.7 % Total $ 9,153 $ 6,712 36.4 % Gross bookings increased by 36.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012 (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 37%), principally due to 37.7% growth in hotel room night reservations and a 43.3% growth in rental car day reservations. The 42.8% increase in international gross bookings for the three months ended March 31, 2013 (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 43%) was primarily attributable to growth in hotel room night reservations for our Booking.com and Agoda.com businesses, as well as growth in rental car day reservations for our rentalcars.com business. Domestic gross bookings increased by 8.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to an increase in priceline.com's price-disclosed and Name Your Own Price services, other than opaque hotel, and associated higher average prices for hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets. Our opaque hotel business experienced a slight decline in hotel room night reservations in the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2013 2012 Change Agency $ 7,648 $ 5,528 38.3 % Merchant 1,505 1,184 27.1 % Total $ 9,153 $ 6,712 36.4 % Agency gross bookings increased 38.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to growth in Booking.com hotel room night reservations, as well as priceline.com agency price-disclosed hotel room nights and rental car days. Merchant gross bookings increased 27.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to an increase in the sale of Agoda.com hotel room night reservations, rentalcars.com rental car day reservations and priceline.com merchant price-disclosed room night reservations and Name Your Own Price rental car and air reservations. Our opaque hotel business experienced a slight decline in hotel room night 32 reservations in the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, due to the competitive pressures discussed above in Domestic Trends. Hotel Room Nights Rental Car Days Airline Tickets Three Months ended March 31, 2013 63.2 million 9.9 million 1.7 million Three Months ended March 31, 2012 45.9 million 6.9 million 1.6 million Hotel room night reservations increased by 37.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, principally due to an increase in Booking.com, Agoda.com and priceline.com price-disclosed hotel room night reservations, partially offset by a slight decline in opaque hotel room night reservations. Booking.com, our most significant brand, currently includes over 295,000 hotels and accommodations on its website as of May 3, 2013 (updated hotel and accommodations are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added hotels and accommodations over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate and our core European market. Our U.S. priceline.com agency hotel reservations benefited from the integration of hotels from the Booking.com extranet on the priceline.com website. Rental car day reservations increased by 43.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, due primarily to an increase in rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and priceline.com. Airline ticket reservations increased by 1.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, due to an increase in Name Your Own Price and price-disclosed airline ticket reservations for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012. Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, GDS reservation booking fees related to certain travel services and customer processing fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Principally all of the revenue for Booking.com is comprised of travel commissions. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer's credit card for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of Name Your Own Price hotel room night, rental car and airline ticket reservations and price-disclosed vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by travel service providers in connection with (a) the hotel room reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service at Agoda.com and priceline.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant semi-opaque rental car service at rentalcars.com and merchant semi-opaque hotel service at priceline.com, which allows customers to see the price of the reservation prior to purchase but not the identity of the travel service provider; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of Name Your Own Price hotel room night, rental car and airline ticket reservations and merchant price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Other revenues are derived primarily from advertising on our websites. 33 Three Months Ended March 31, $000 2013 2012 Change Agency Revenues $ 769,928 $ 537,627 43.2 % Merchant Revenues 528,564 496,409 6.5 % Other Revenues 3,520 3,211 9.6 % Total Revenues $ 1,302,012 $ 1,037,247 25.5 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2013 increased 43.2% , compared to the same period in 2012, primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com. Our U.S. agency revenues benefited from the integration of hotels from the Booking.com extranet on the priceline.com website as well as growth in our priceline.com retail rental car business. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2013 increased 6.5% , compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to increases in our Agoda.com hotel business, rentalcars.com rental car business and priceline.com Name Your Own Price rental car, merchant price-disclosed hotel and Name Your Own Price air businesses, partially offset by a decline in Name Your Own Price hotel revenues. Merchant revenue growth over the prior year period was substantially lower than merchant gross bookings growth because our merchant revenues are disproportionately affected by our Name Your Own Price business. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded gross with a corresponding supplier cost recorded in cost of revenues, and represented a smaller percentage, year-over-year, of total revenues compared to our faster-growing Agoda.com and rentalcars.com businesses, which are recorded in revenue "net" of supplier cost. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Other Revenues Other revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2013 consisted primarily of advertising revenues. Other revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2013 increased compared to the same period in 2012. Cost of Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, $000 2013 2012 Change Cost of Revenues $ 292,347 $ 293,959 (0.5 )% For the three months ended March 31, 2013, cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of Name Your Own Price rental cars from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes; (3) the cost of Name Your Own Price airline tickets, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets; and (4) the cost related to accruals for travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). Cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2013 included an accrual of approximately $20.5 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for travel transaction taxes, principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia. Cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2013 decreased by 0.5% , compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to a decrease in our Name Your Own Price hotel business, partially offset by an increase in merchant price-disclosed and semi-opaque hotel room and rental car reservations which are recorded in merchant revenues net of the amounts paid to travel service providers. 34 Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, $000 2013 2012 Change Gross Profit $ 1,009,665 $ 743,288 35.8 % Gross Margin 77.5 % 71.7 % Total gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2013 increased by 35.8% compared to the same period in 2012, primarily as a result of increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012, because our revenues are disproportionately affected by our Name Your Own Price business. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded gross with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the three months ended March 31, 2013 represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the same period in 2012. Our retail price-disclosed and semi-opaque businesses, which are recorded in revenue "net" of supplier cost have been growing faster than our Name Your Own Price businesses. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $894.4 million of our gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2013, which compares to $616.6 million for the same period in 2012. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 45% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012. Gross profit attributable to our priceline.com U.S. business decreased by approximately 9% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, principally due to an accrual for travel transaction taxes, primarily related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia. Operating Expenses Advertising Three Months Ended March 31, $000 2013 2012 Change Online Advertising $ 403,153 $ 277,136 45.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 39.9 % 37.3 % Offline Advertising $ 27,729 $ 11,157 148.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 2.7 % 1.5 % Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; (4) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (5) e-mail campaigns. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2012, primarily to support increased gross bookings. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit increased for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, due to (1) lower ROIs from our online advertising, (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group and (3) channel mix within certain of our brands. Our online advertising ROIs have recently been down year-over-year. Furthermore, our international brands are growing faster than our priceline.com U.S. brand, and spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. Finally, certain of our brands are obtaining an increasing share of traffic through paid online advertising channels. Offline advertising expenses are related to our television, print and radio advertising for our priceline.com and Booking.com businesses. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, offline advertising increased 148.5% compared to the same period in 2012, due mainly to Booking.com launching in the United States its first offline advertising campaign in 2013. 35 Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, $000 2013 2012 Change Sales and Marketing $ 52,263 $ 45,537 14.8 % % of Total Gross Profit 5.2 % 6.1 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables; and (4) provisions for credit card chargebacks. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2012, primarily due to increased gross booking volumes as well as expenses related to increased content translations. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of gross profit are typically higher for our merchant business which incurs credit card processing fees. Our merchant business grew more slowly than our agency business, and as a result, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2013, declined compared to the same period in 2012. In addition, our Agoda.com business experienced a decline in its sales and marketing expense per transaction. Personnel Three Months Ended March 31, $000 2013 2012 Change Personnel $ 134,218 $ 100,676 33.3 % % of Total Gross Profit 13.3 % 13.5 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes and employee health benefits. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, personnel expenses increased over the same period in 2012, due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $21.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to $16.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, $000 2013 2012 Change General and Administrative $ 50,161 $ 40,674 23.3 % % of Total Gross Profit 5.0 % 5.5 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) personnel related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses; (2) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses; and (3) occupancy expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended March 31, 2013 over the same period in 2012, primarily due to higher recruiting, training and travel expenses related to increased headcount in all our businesses. General and administrative expenses for three months ended March 31, 2013 included approximately $2 million of professional fees related to the acquisition of KAYAK. General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2012 included a charge of approximately $3 million related to certain leased space that was vacated in connection with the relocation of Booking.com's headquarters to a new location in Amsterdam. 36 Information Technology Three Months Ended March 31, $000 2013 2012 Change Information Technology $ 13,222 $ 10,735 23.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.3 % 1.4 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) outsourced data center costs relating to our U.S. and international data centers; (2) system maintenance and software license fees; (3) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, the increase in information technology expenses compared to the same period in 2012 was due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, $000 2013 2012 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 19,080 $ 15,842 20.4 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.9 % 2.1 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) amortization of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office equipment and furniture and fixtures. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, depreciation expense increased from the same period in 2012 due principally to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com brand. Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended March 31, $000 2013 2012 Change Interest Income $ 874 $ 1,098 (20.4 )% Interest Expense (17,329 ) (11,258 ) 53.9 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (2,942 ) (2,376 ) 23.8 % Total $ (19,397 ) $ (12,536 ) 54.7 % For the three months ended March 31, 2013, interest income on cash and marketable securities decreased over the same periods in 2012, primarily due to lower yields partially offset by an increase in the average balance invested. Interest expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to an increase in the average outstanding debt resulting from the March 2012 issuance of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $0.4 million and $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in losses of $3.3 million and $3.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. 37 Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, $000 2013 2012 Change Income Tax Expense $ 46,150 $ 47,179 (2.2 )% Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was 15.9% as compared to 20.6% in the three months ended March 31, 2012. Our effective tax rate is lower for the first quarter of 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, due to growth in our international businesses. Additionally, our effective tax rate differs from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%, principally due to lower tax rates outside the United States, including the Innovation Box Tax benefit discussed below, partially offset by state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. Effective January 1, 2010, the Netherlands modified its corporate income tax law related to income generated from qualifying "innovative" activities (the "Innovation Box Tax"). Earnings that qualify for the Innovation Box Tax are taxed at the rate of 5% rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25.0%. The Dutch tax authorities required that the Innovation Box Tax benefit be phased in over a multi-year period. The benefit was fully phased in for the Company in 2012. The amount of qualifying earnings expressed as a percentage of the total pretax earnings in the Netherlands will vary depending upon the level of total pretax earnings that is achieved in any given year. The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid through December 31, 2014. In order to be eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment, Booking.com must, among other things, apply for and obtain a research and development (R&D) certificate from a Dutch governmental agency every six months confirming that the activities that Booking.com intends to be engaged in over the subsequent six month period are innovative. The R&D certificate is current but should Booking.com fail to secure such a certificate in any future period - for example, because the governmental agency does not view Booking.com's new or anticipated activities as innovative - or should this agency determine that the activities contemplated to be performed in a prior year were not performed as contemplated or did not comply with the agency's requirements, Booking.com may lose its certificate and, as a result, the Innovation Box Tax benefit may be reduced or eliminated. Although Booking.com intends to apply for continued Innovation Box Tax treatment for future periods, Booking.com's application may not be accepted, or, if accepted, the amount of qualifying earnings may be reduced or the applicable tax rate at that time on qualifying earnings may be higher than the current rate. In addition, the tax law may change in 2013 and/or future years resulting in a reduction or elimination of the tax benefit. Until our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, we do not expect to make tax payments on our U.S. income, except for federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our foreign income. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income at higher rates than the U.S. business over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international businesses generate an increasing share of our pre-tax income. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Three Months Ended March 31, $000 2013 2012 Change Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests $ 21 $ (154 ) (113.6 )% For the three months ended March 31, 2013, results of operations attributable to noncontrolling interests resulted in net income, compared to net loss for the same period in 2012, due mainly to improved year-over-year operating performance for the rentalcars.com business, partially offset by a reduction in redeemable noncontrolling interests from 19.0% in April 2011 to 12.7% in April 2012. In April 2013, we purchased the remaining outstanding shares underlying redeemable noncontrolling interests. 38 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2013, we had $5.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Approximately $3.0 billion of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held by our international subsidiaries and are denominated primarily in Euros and, to a lesser extent, in British Pounds Sterling and other currencies. We currently intend to permanently reinvest this cash in our foreign operations. We could not repatriate this cash to the United States without utilizing our net operating loss carryforwards and potentially incurring additional tax payments in the United States. Cash equivalents and short-term investments are primarily comprised of foreign and U.S. government securities and bank deposits. In March 2012, we issued in a private placement $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2018, with an interest rate of 1.0%. Interest on the notes is payable in March and September of each year. As discussed below, we used approximately $166.2 million of the net proceeds to repurchase outstanding common stock in privately negotiated, off-market transactions concurrent with the issuance of the convertible notes. The net proceeds will also be used for general corporate purposes, which may include repurchasing shares of our common stock from time to time, repaying outstanding debt and corporate acquisitions. See Note 8 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these notes. In October 2011, we entered into a $1.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.00% to 1.50%; or (ii) the greatest of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association's prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50%. Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.10% to 0.25%. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $100.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50.0 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of March 31, 2013, there were no borrowings under the facility, and approximately $ 1.9 million of letters of credit were issued under the facility. As of March 31, 2013, we have a remaining authorization from our Board of Directors to repurchase $ 459.2 million of our common stock. We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital, and other factors. In April 2013, we purchased the remaining outstanding shares underlying redeemable noncontrolling interests in TravelJigsaw Holdings Limited for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $192.5 million. See Note 11 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from our customers and then we pay most of our suppliers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant swings in deferred merchant bookings and supplier payables depending on the absolute level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. In November 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire KAYAK Software Corporation, a leading travel meta-search service, in a stock and cash transaction. Under the terms of the agreement, the transaction values KAYAK at $1.8 billion ($1.65 billion net of cash acquired) or $40 per share of KAYAK common stock, with $500 million to be paid in cash, which is expected to be made from cash on hand in the United States, and $1.3 billion to be paid in shares of our common stock and assumed stock options (subject to a volume-weighted average trading price calculation and a collar on the value of our common stock). The closing of the transaction is expected to occur on or about May 21, 2013. Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2013, was $ 183.1 million , resulting from net income of $244.3 million and a favorable impact of $ 50.4 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital of $ 111.6 million . For the three months ended March 31, 2013, prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $ 208.0 million , principally related to a $224.0 million prepayment of income taxes for 2013 by Booking.com to earn a prepayment discount. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, accounts receivable increased $ 115.2 million , primarily due to increases in business volumes. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $ 188.1 million , primarily related to increases in business volumes combined with an accrual of approximately $35 million for withholding taxes paid in April 2013 39 for stock-based awards that vested in the first quarter of 2013, partially offset by a reduction in compensation payable as a result of 2012 bonuses being paid in the first quarter of 2013. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, other working capital changes resulted in a favorable impact of $23.4 million due to an accrual of approximately $20.5 million for travel transaction taxes (including estimated interest and penalties), principally related to unfavorable rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes, and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities for three months ended March 31, 2012, was $182.4 million, resulting from net income of $181.8 million and a favorable impact of $49.4 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital of $48.9 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2012, prepaid and other current assets increased by $145.3 million, principally due to a $165.6 million prepayment of income taxes for 2012 by Booking.com to earn a prepayment discount. Accounts receivable increased $58.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012, primarily due to increases in business volumes. For the three months ended March 31, 2012, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $153.2 million, primarily related to increases in business volumes combined with an accrual of approximately $50 million for withholding taxes paid in April 2012 for stock-based awards that vested in the first quarter of 2012, partially offset by a reduction in compensation payable as a result of 2011 bonuses paid in the first quarter of 2012. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes, and deferred income taxes. Net cash used in investing activities was $ 16.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013. Investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2013 were mainly affected by net payments of $17.5 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts offset by net sales of investments of $17.3 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $371.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012. Investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2012 were mainly affected by net purchases of investments of $376.1 million and payments of $13.3 for acquisitions, partially offset by cash proceeds of $32.2 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts. Cash invested in purchase of property and equipment was $15.0 million and $13.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Net cash used in financing activities was $ 71.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013. The cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was primarily related to treasury stock purchases of $76.4 million, partially offset by $4.4 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and $1.0 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $730.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012. The cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was primarily related to proceeds from the issuance of convertible senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion, $1.0 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options, and $4.0 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $254.2 million, and $20.3 million of debt issuance costs. Contingencies A number of jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against online travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). In addition, a number of U.S. states, counties and municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes. To date, the majority of taxing jurisdictions in which we facilitate the making of travel reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on our travel services. With respect to jurisdictions that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect taxes from us only on a prospective basis. See Note 13 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and proceedings, and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations " in this Quarterly Report. We are vigorously defending against these claims and proceedings. However, litigation is subject to uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these pending or future cases and proceedings. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of these actions or proceedings could result in substantial liabilities for past and/or future bookings, including, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in any given operating period. Also, there have been, and will continue to be, ongoing costs associated with defending our position in pending and any future cases or proceedings. To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that we have a tax collection responsibility, or we determine that we have such a responsibility, with respect to future transactions, we may collect any such additional tax obligation from 40 our customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of travel reservations to our customers and, consequently, could make our travel reservation services less competitive (i.e., versus the websites of other online travel companies or travel service providers) and reduce our travel reservation transactions; alternatively, we could choose to reduce the compensation for our services on travel transactions. Either action could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As a result of this litigation and other attempts by jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual for the potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes in the amount of approximately $ 78 million at March 31, 2013 and approximately $ 56 million at December 31, 2012 (which includes, among other things, amounts related to the litigation in the State of Hawaii, District of Columbia and San Antonio). The accrual is based on our estimate of the probable cost of resolving these issues. Our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded. An estimate for a reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount accrued cannot be reasonably made. We believe that even if we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash, it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2013, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Sections of this Form 10-Q including, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above and the Risk Factors contained in Part II Item 1A hereof, contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including may, will, should, could, expects, plans, anticipates, intends, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, targets, or continue, reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Part II Item 1A, Risk Factors. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K. 41