Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements " in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, " this discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in " Risk Factors " and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The information on our websites is not a part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is not incorporated herein by reference. Overview We are a leading provider of online travel and travel-related reservation and search services. Through our online travel reservation services, we connect consumers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world. We offer consumers accommodation reservations (including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels, apartments, vacation rentals and other properties) through our Booking.com, priceline.com and agoda.com brands. Our priceline.com brand also offers consumers reservations for rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages and cruises. We offer rental car reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com. We also allow consumers to easily compare airline ticket, hotel reservation and rental car reservation information from hundreds of travel websites at once through KAYAK. We recently acquired OpenTable, a leading provider of online restaurant reservations. We believe that the online restaurant reservation business is complementary to our online travel businesses, and that both OpenTable and our travel businesses will benefit from adding OpenTable to The Priceline Group. We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands, including Booking.com, priceline.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, rentalcars.com and, as of July 24, 2014, OpenTable, collectively as "The Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include Booking.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, rentalcars.com and OpenTable, which are independently managed and operated brands. Our principal goal is to serve consumers and our travel service provider and restaurant partners with worldwide leadership in online reservation services. Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com and the results of the internationally based websites of KAYAK and, as of July 24, 2014, OpenTable (in each case regardless of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while making a reservation or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant). During the year ended December 31, 2014 , our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 87% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately 94% of our consolidated operating income. A significant majority of our gross profit is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations. We derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car, airline ticket and vacation package reservation services; Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to online travel companies ("OTCs") and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; Beginning on July 24, 2014, revenues recognized by OpenTable, which consist of reservation revenues (a fee for restaurant guests seated through OpenTable's online reservation service), subscription fees for restaurant reservation management services and other revenues; and Damage excess waiver fees, travel insurance fees and global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees, in each case related to certain of our travel services. Our priceline.com brand offers merchant Name Your Own Price opaque travel services, which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue. All of our other services are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between Name Your Own Price travel services and other services. Gross profit reflects the commission or net margin earned for our retail, Name Your Own Price and semi-opaque travel services and our advertising and other services. Consequently, gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business because, in contrast to our revenues, it is 28 not affected by the different methods of recording revenue and cost of revenue between our Name Your Own Price travel services and our other services. Trends Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in our accommodation reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the widespread adoption of mobile devices, the high growth of travel overall in emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America, and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build accommodation supply, content and distribution and to improve the customer experience on our websites and mobile apps. These year-over-year growth rates have generally decelerated in recent years. For example, for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , our accommodation room night reservation growth was 25% compared to 32% in the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Given the size of our hotel reservation business, we expect that our year-over-year growth rates will continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may fluctuate. The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet use and e-commerce activity of international consumers have trailed that of consumers in the United States. However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. We expect that over the long term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. Our growth has primarily been generated by our international accommodation reservation service brands, Booking.com and agoda.com. Booking.com, our most significant brand, included over 635,000 properties on its website as of May 4, 2015 , which included over 270,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year around the world, including in its core European market and in its newer markets, including North America, Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from both a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in our newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. As our international business represents the substantial majority of our financial results, we expect to continue to see our operating results and other financial metrics largely driven by international performance. For example, certain markets in which we operate that are in earlier stages of development have lower operating margins compared to more mature markets, which could have a negative impact on our overall margins as these markets increase in size over time. Also, we intend to continue to invest in adding accommodations available for reservation on our websites, including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels and vacation rentals. Vacation rentals generally consist of, among others, properties categorized as single-unit and multi-unit villas, apartments, "aparthotels" (which are apartments with a front desk and cleaning service) and chalets and are generally self-catered (i.e., include a kitchen), directly bookable properties. Many of the newer accommodations we add to our travel reservation services, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms, lower average daily rates ("ADRs") or higher credit risk and may appeal to a smaller subset of consumers (e.g., hostels and bed and breakfasts), and therefore may also negatively impact our margins. For example, because a vacation rental is either a single unit or a small collection of independent units, vacation rental properties represent more limited booking opportunities than non-vacation rental properties, which generally have more units to rent per property. Our non-hotel accommodations in general may be subject to increased seasonality due to local tourism seasons, weather or other factors. As we increase our non-hotel accommodation business, these different market characteristics could negatively impact our profit margins; and, to the extent these properties represent an increasing percentage of the properties added to our websites, our gross bookings growth rate and property growth rate will likely diverge over time (since each such property has fewer booking opportunities). As a result of the foregoing, as the percentage of non-hotel accommodations increases, the number of reservations per property will likely decrease. In addition, non-hotel accommodations, including vacation rentals, tend to be more seasonal in nature and may close during "off-season," which impacts our property counts quarter to quarter. Concerns persist about the outlook for the global economy in general, and the European Union in particular, with recent declines in broad Eurozone economic indicators raising fears about the pace of economic growth and the risk of deflation. In addition, many governments around the world, including the U.S. government and certain European governments, continue to operate at large financial deficits, resulting in high levels of sovereign debt in such countries. Greece, Ireland, Portugal and certain other European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt at times have had difficulty refinancing 29 their debt. Failure to reach political consensus regarding workable solutions to these issues has resulted in a high level of uncertainty regarding the future economic outlook. This uncertainty, as well as concern over governmental austerity measures including higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. At times, we have experienced volatility in transaction growth rates and weaker trends in hotel ADRs across many regions of the world, particularly in those European countries that appear to be most affected by economic uncertainties. We believe that these business trends are likely impacted by weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns. Disruptions in the economies of such countries could cause, contribute to or be indicative of deteriorating macro-economic conditions. Greece's newly elected government, which campaigned against austerity measures, may not be able to reach an acceptable solution to the country's debt crisis with the European Union. This may increase the likelihood that Greece, and in turn other countries, could exit the European Union, which could lead to added economic uncertainty and further devaluation or eventual abandonment of the Euro common currency. These and other macro-economic uncertainties, such as sovereign default risk becoming more widespread, declining oil prices and geopolitical tensions, have led to significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the U.S. Dollar and other currencies. The European Central Bank, in an effort to stimulate the European economy, recently launched a quantitative easing program to purchase public debt, which in turn has caused the Euro exchange rate to weaken compared to the U.S. Dollar. As noted earlier, our international business represents a substantial majority of our financial results. Therefore, because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international businesses are translated from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. The U.S. Dollar significantly strengthened against the Euro during 2014, moving from an exchange rate of 1.38 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of January 1, 2014 to 1.21 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of December 31, 2014 . The U.S. Dollar strengthened further in the first quarter of 2015 to an exchange rate of 1.07 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of March 31, 2015 . The U.S. Dollar also strengthened significantly during this time frame as compared to many other currencies. As a result, our foreign currency denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses and net income have been negatively impacted as expressed in U.S. Dollars. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins are not significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. The aggregate principal value of the Euro-denominated 2024 Notes and 2027 Notes, and accrued interest thereon, provide a natural hedge of the net assets of certain of our Euro functional currency subsidiaries. For example, gross profit from our international operations grew year-over-year on a constant currency basis by approximately 30% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , but, as a result of the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, grew 15.7% as reported in U.S. Dollars. We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results. However, such derivative instruments are short term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuations that could impact our gross bookings, revenues or gross profit (see Note 5 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). Significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates can also impact consumer travel behavior. For example, recent dramatic depreciation of the Russian Ruble has resulted in it becoming more expensive for Russians to travel to Europe and most other non-Ruble destinations. Consumers traveling from a country whose currency has weakened against other currencies may book lower ADR accommodations, choose to shorten or cancel their international travel plans or choose to travel domestically rather than internationally, any of which could adversely affect our gross bookings, revenues and results of operations, in particular when expressed in U.S. Dollars. The uncertainty of macro-economic factors, the volatility in foreign exchange rates and their impact on consumer behavior, which may differ across regions, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. We compete with both online and traditional travel and travel-related reservation and search services. The market for the travel reservation and search services we offer is intensely competitive, a trend we expect to continue, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. We currently, or potentially may in the future, compete with a variety of companies, including: online travel reservation services such as those owned by Expedia, Orbitz (which has agreed to be acquired by Expedia), Ctrip, Rakuten, eDreams ODIGEO and Jalan; online accommodation search and/or reservation services, such as HomeAway and Airbnb, focused on vacation rental properties, including individually owned properties; 30 large online companies, including search, social networking and marketplace companies such as Google, Facebook, Alibaba, Amazon and Groupon; traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators, such as Carlson Wagonlit, American Express, Thomas Cook and Tui Travel, as well as thousands of individual travel agencies around the world; travel service providers such as accommodation providers, rental car companies and airlines; online travel search and price comparison services (generally referred to as "meta-search" services), such as TripAdvisor, trivago (in which Expedia has acquired a majority ownership interest), Qunar and HotelsCombined; and online restaurant reservation services, such as TripAdvisor's LaFourchette and Yelp's SeatMe. For more detail regarding the competitive trends and risks we face, see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. " and " Recent trends in consumer adoption and use of mobile devices create new challenges and may enable device companies such as Apple to compete directly with us. " After entering into an exclusive, long-term strategic marketing agreement in August 2013, Expedia acquired Travelocity in January 2015. On February 12, 2015, Expedia announced that it had entered into an agreement to acquire Orbitz. To the extent these acquisitions enhance Expedia's ability to compete with us, in particular in the United States, which is Expedia's, Travelocity's and Orbitz's largest market, our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected. Widespread adoption of mobile devices, such as the iPhone, Android-enabled smart phones and tablets such as the iPad, coupled with the improved web browsing functionality and development of thousands of useful "apps" available on these devices, is driving substantial online traffic and commerce to mobile platforms. We have experienced a significant shift of business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Our major competitors and certain new market entrants are offering mobile applications for travel products and other mobile functionality, including proprietary last-minute discounts for accommodation reservations. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. The gross profit earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. Further, given the device sizes and technical limitations of tablets and smart phones, mobile consumers may not be willing to download multiple apps from multiple companies providing a similar service and instead prefer to use one or a limited number of apps for their mobile travel and restaurant research and reservation activity. As a result, the consumer experience with mobile apps as well as brand recognition and loyalty are likely to become increasingly important. Our mobile offerings have received strong reviews and achieved solid download trends, and are driving a material and increasing share of our business. We believe that mobile bookings present an opportunity for growth and are necessary to maintain and grow our business as consumers increasingly turn to mobile devices instead of a personal computer and to mobile applications in addition to a web browser. If we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new, user-friendly and differentiated mobile offerings and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, or if our mobile apps are not downloaded and used by consumers, we could lose market share to existing competitors or new entrants and our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we have observed an increase in promotional pricing to closed user groups (such as loyalty program participants or customers with registered accounts), including through mobile apps. If we are not as effective as our competition in offering discounted prices to closed user groups or if we are unable to entice members of our competitors' closed user groups to use our services, our ability to grow and compete could be harmed. Further, growth in discounted closed user group retail prices for hotel rooms lessens the price difference for members of closed user groups between a retail hotel reservation and an opaque hotel reservation, which may lead to fewer consumers using our opaque hotel reservation services. If we need to fund discounts out of our gross profit, our profitability could be adversely affected. We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotional campaigns. As a result, both our online and offline advertising expense has increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , our total online advertising expense was approximately $643 million , a substantial portion of which was spent internationally through Internet search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services and affiliate marketing. We also invested $64 million in offline advertising. We intend to continue a strategy of aggressively promoting brand awareness, primarily through online means although we also intend to increase our offline advertising efforts, including by expanding offline campaigns into additional markets. For example, building on its first offline advertising campaign, which it launched in the United States in 2013, Booking.com has begun 31 offline advertising campaigns in other markets, including Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and Germany. We have observed increased offline advertising by OTCs, meta-search services and travel service providers, particularly in North America and Europe, which may make our offline advertising efforts more expensive and less effective. Online advertising efficiency, expressed as online advertising expense as a percentage of gross profit, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and the extent to which consumers come directly to our websites or mobile apps for bookings. For example, competition for desired rankings in search results and/or a decline in ad clicks by consumers, could increase our costs-per-click and reduce our online advertising efficiency. From 2011 to 2013, our online advertising expense grew faster than our gross profit due to (1) year-over-year declines in online advertising returns on investment ("ROIs") and (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group as our international brands grew faster than our U.S. brands and spent a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. In 2014, these long-term trends were more than offset by the inclusion of KAYAK and OpenTable because they spend a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other brands. Also, our consolidated results exclude intercompany advertising by our brands on KAYAK since our acquisition of KAYAK in May 2013. In the first quarter of 2015, online advertising efficiency declined compared to the prior year, mainly due to lower ROIs. If Google changes how it presents travel search results or the manner in which it conducts the auction for placement among search results in a manner that is competitively disadvantageous to us, whether to support its own travel-related services or otherwise, our ability to efficiently generate traffic to our websites could be harmed. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " We rely on online advertising channels to enhance our brand awareness and to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. " and " Our business could be negatively affected by changes in Internet search engine algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements. " The competition authorities of many governments have begun investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, and we may be involved or affected by such investigations and their results. For example, Booking.com has been the subject of a competition investigation by U.K. competition authorities since July 2012. Other national competition authorities, including those in the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Hungary, Sweden and Switzerland, have more recently opened investigations that focus on Booking.com's rate parity clause in its contracts with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions. We are currently unable to predict the outcome of all of these investigations or how our business may be affected. Possible outcomes include requiring Booking.com to remove its rate parity clause from its contracts with accommodation providers in those jurisdictions. In the U.K. investigation, Booking.com and the other subjects of the investigation had reached a settlement with the competition authorities; however, that settlement has been vacated on appeal. The French, Italian and Swedish national competition authorities have accepted commitments by Booking.com in connection with their investigations. Booking.com intends to implement these commitments throughout the European Economic Area and is working with certain other European national competition authorities towards this objective. For more information on these investigations, see Footnote 12 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " As the size of our business grows, we may become increasingly subject to the scrutiny of anti-trust and competition regulators. " To the extent that regulatory authorities impose fines or require changes to our business practices or to those currently common to the industry, our business, competitive position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Negative publicity regarding any such investigations could adversely affect our brand and therefore our market share and results of operations. Hotels typically make available only a limited number of hotel rooms for opaque services like ours, especially during periods of high occupancy. As a result, recent high hotel occupancy levels in the United States have had an adverse impact on our access to hotel rooms for our opaque hotel reservation services, which has negatively affected our opaque hotel reservation gross profits. Seasonality A meaningful amount of gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as the expense is incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which reservations are booked. However, we generally do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs. As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation checkouts for the year for our European and North American businesses. In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results. For example, in 2013 our second quarter year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were adversely affected by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, as it did in 2012. Conversely, our second quarter 32 2014 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were favorably impacted by Easter falling in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2013. The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business. For example, in periods where our growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable advertising expense. In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters. We experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters. Therefore, if these businesses grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results. Other Factors We believe that our future success depends in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel and travel-related services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods and volcanic eruptions, travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities or travel-related accidents, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and impair our ability to effectively implement all or some of the initiatives described above. For example, in late 2012 Hurricane Sandy disrupted travel in the northeastern United States. In early 2011, Japan was struck by a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency. In October 2011, severe flooding in Thailand, a key market for our agoda.com business and the Asian business of Booking.com, negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market. In addition, Thailand has recently experienced disruptive civil unrest, which has negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market. In early 2010, Thailand also experienced civil unrest, which caused the temporary relocation of agoda.com's Thailand-based operations. Future natural disasters, health concerns or civil or political unrest could further disrupt our business and operations. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. For example, we are investing in growth initiatives at OpenTable, including international expansion, and in building our BookingSuite partner-facing software services platform. We expect pressure on operating margins resulting from these initiatives to continue during the remainder of 2015, though to a lesser extent in the second half of the year after we reach the anniversary of these initiatives. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to grow gross profit and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain gross profit growth and profitability. On July 24, 2014, we acquired OpenTable, a leading provider of online restaurant reservations, for $2.5 billion ( $2.4 billion net of cash acquired) and on May 21, 2013, we acquired KAYAK Software Corporation, a leading travel meta-search service, for $2.1 billion ($1.9 billion net of cash acquired). A substantial portion of the total consideration for these acquisitions related to identifiable acquired intangibles and goodwill (see Note 6 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements). In 2015, we intend to invest in OpenTable to accelerate its global expansion, increase the value offered to its restaurant partners and enhance the end-to-end experience for customers across desktop and mobile devices. As a result, we expect OpenTable's profitability in 2015 to decline year-over-year as we invest for future growth. If the investments we intend to make in 2015 and beyond, in particular internationally, are unsuccessful in growing OpenTable's global online restaurant reservation business or OpenTable experiences a significant reduction in revenues or profitability due to factors such as competition, increased capital expenditures or investments in its business, we may recognize an impairment in the value of our acquired intangible assets and goodwill. Likewise, if KAYAK is unsuccessful in profitably growing its global online travel brand or it experiences a significant reduction in advertising revenues on its websites or mobile apps or profitability due to factors such as a loss of continued access to travel services information provided by other OTCs or travel service providers, we may incur an impairment. 33 Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units purchased by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings, net of cancellations, is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers and is widely used in the travel business. International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com businesses and U.S. gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by our priceline.com business, in each case regardless of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while making a reservation or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant. We follow a similar approach for reporting the international and U.S. revenue and gross profit of those businesses. Gross bookings resulting from accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets reserved through our international and U.S. operations for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2015 2014 Change International $ 12,104 $ 10,643 13.7 % U.S. 1,672 1,637 2.1 % Total $ 13,775 $ 12,280 12.2 % Gross bookings increased by 12.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 26% ), principally due to growth of 25.4% in accommodation room night reservations, 2% growth on a constant currency basis in ADRs and growth of 18.0% in rental car day reservations, partially offset by a 3.2% decline in airline ticket reservations. International gross bookings grew by 13.7% (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 29% ) for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . International gross bookings growth was primarily attributable to growth in accommodation room night reservations for our Booking.com and agoda.com businesses, as well as growth in rental car day reservations for our rentalcars.com business. The U.S. Dollar significantly strengthened against the Euro during 2014, moving from an exchange rate of 1.38 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of January 1, 2014 to 1.21 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of December 31, 2014. The U.S. Dollar strengthened further during the first quarter of 2015 to an exchange rate of 1.07 U.S. Dollars per Euro as of March 31, 2015 . The U.S. Dollar has also strengthened against many other currencies since January 1, 2014. At these exchange rates, the growth of our total gross bookings and the growth of our international gross bookings, each expressed in U.S. Dollars, have been and will continue to be significantly adversely impacted through the remainder of 2015. We therefore believe that unit growth rates and total gross bookings, international gross bookings and gross profit growth on a local currency basis, excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, are important measures to understand the fundamental performance of the business. U.S. gross bookings increased by 2.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , primarily due to increases in priceline.com's retail hotel, retail rental car and Express Deals hotel reservation services, partially offset by declines in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services and retail airline ticket service. Travel service providers typically provide a limited amount of availability to opaque services like those of priceline.com, especially during periods of healthy travel demand. As a result, the recent healthy travel environment in the United States has had an adverse impact on our access to availability for our opaque reservation services. 34 Gross bookings resulting from reservations of accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant models for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2015 2014 Change Agency $ 11,908 $ 10,516 13.2 % Merchant 1,867 1,764 5.8 % Total $ 13,775 $ 12,280 12.2 % Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we are the merchant of record. Agency gross bookings increased 13.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , primarily due to growth in Booking.com accommodation room night reservations, as well as growth in priceline.com retail rental car and hotel reservation services and rentalcars.com rental car reservations. Merchant gross bookings increased 5.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , primarily due to increases in agoda.com and priceline.com retail hotel reservation services, rentalcars.com rental car reservations and priceline.com's Express Deals hotel reservation service, partially offset by declines in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. The U.S. Dollar is significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies as of March 31, 2015 compared to 2014 . At these exchange rates, the growth of our agency and merchant gross bookings, expressed in U.S. Dollars, has been and will continue to be significantly adversely impacted through the remainder of 2015. Units sold for accommodation room nights, rental car days and airline tickets for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2015 2014 Change Room Nights 104.6 83.4 25.4 % Rental Car Days 14.6 12.3 18.0 % Airline Tickets 2.0 2.0 (3.2 )% Accommodation room night reservations increased by 25.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , due to an increase in Booking.com, agoda.com and priceline.com accommodation room night reservations. Booking.com, our most significant brand, included over 635,000 properties on its website as of May 4, 2015 , which included over 270,000 vacation rental properties, compared to over 455,000 properties as of May 7, 2014 , which included over 140,000 vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year around the world, including in its core European market and in its newer markets, including North America, Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from both a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in our newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate and our core European market. Rental car day reservations increased by 18.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , due to an increase in price-disclosed rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and priceline.com, partially offset by a decline in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price rental car reservation service. Airline ticket reservations decreased by 3.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , due to a decline in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price and price-disclosed airline ticket reservation services. 35 Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, GDS reservation booking fees related to certain travel services, travel insurance fees and customer processing fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Substantially all of the revenue for Booking.com is agency revenue comprised of travel commissions. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer's credit card for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the price of Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservations and vacation packages charged to a customer (with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues); (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged to us by travel service providers in connection with (a) the accommodation reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel reservation services at agoda.com and priceline.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at rentalcars.com and merchant Express Deals reservation services at priceline.com; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services, Express Deals reservation services and merchant price-disclosed hotel reservation services; and (4) ancillary fees, including damage excess waiver and travel insurance fees and GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers; (2) advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; (3) reservation revenues earned by OpenTable (a fee for restaurant guests seated through OpenTable's online reservation service); (4) subscription fees earned by OpenTable for restaurant reservation management services; and (5) revenues generated by Booking.com's BookingSuite branded hotel marketing services. Revenue from KAYAK is net of intercompany revenues earned by KAYAK from other Priceline Group brands. Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Agency Revenues $ 1,199,348 $ 1,041,144 15.2 % Merchant Revenues 494,675 526,998 (6.1 )% Advertising and Other Revenues 146,671 73,660 99.1 % Total Revenues $ 1,840,694 $ 1,641,802 12.1 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased 15.2% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com, as well as priceline.com's retail rental car business, rentalcars.com's agency rental car business and priceline.com's agency hotel reservation business. The U.S. Dollar is significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies as of March 31, 2015 compared to 2014 . At these exchange rates, the growth of our agency revenues, expressed in U.S. Dollars, has been and will continue to be significantly adversely impacted through the remainder of 2015. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2015 decreased 6.1% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , primarily due to decreases in revenues from priceline.com's Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservation services, partially offset by increases in our agoda.com business, rentalcars.com business and priceline.com's Express Deals and retail merchant hotel reservation services. Merchant revenue growth over the prior year period was substantially lower than merchant gross bookings growth because our merchant revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Name Your Own Price revenues, which declined year-over-year, are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and 36 represented a smaller percentage, year-over-year, of total revenues compared to our faster-growing agoda.com, rentalcars.com and priceline.com retail merchant hotel and Express Deals hotel reservation services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. The U.S. Dollar is significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies as of March 31, 2015 compared to 2014 . At these exchange rates, the growth of our merchant revenues, expressed in U.S. Dollars, has been and will continue to be significantly adversely impacted through the remainder of 2015. Advertising and Other Revenues Advertising and other revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2015 consisted primarily of advertising revenues, restaurant reservation revenues and subscription revenues for restaurant reservation management services. Other revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2015 includes $60.6 million of OpenTable revenue, which will benefit year-over-year comparisons until the anniversary of the acquisition on July 24, 2015. Cost of Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Cost of Revenues $ 168,458 $ 235,331 (28.4 )% For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost paid to travel service providers for priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services, net of applicable taxes and charges; (2) fees paid to third parties by KAYAK and priceline.com to return travel itinerary information for customer search queries; and (3) costs related to accruals for travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). Cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2015 decreased by 28.4% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , primarily due to a decrease in priceline.com's Name Your Own Price rental car, hotel and airline ticket reservation services as well as a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) related to a favorable ruling in the State of Hawaii. Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Agency revenues principally consist of travel commissions on accommodation reservations. Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Gross Profit $ 1,672,236 $ 1,406,471 18.9 % Gross Margin 90.8 % 85.7 % Total gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased by 18.9% (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 32% ) compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , primarily as a result of the increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , because our revenues are disproportionately affected by priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded "gross" with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in the three months ended March 31, 2015 these revenues represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Our retail and semi-opaque reservation services, which are recorded in revenue "net" of travel service provider costs, have been growing faster than priceline.com's Name Your Own Price reservation services. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure for evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $1.4 billion of our gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , which compares to $1.2 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased 15.7% (growth on a constant currency basis was approximately 30% ) for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Gross profit attributable to our U.S. businesses increased by 38% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was positively impacted by the 37 inclusion of OpenTable, which will benefit year-over-year comparisons until the anniversary of the acquisition on July 24, 2015. Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was positively impacted by a reversal of previously accrued travel transaction taxes of $16.4 million (including estimated interest and penalties) related to a favorable ruling in the State of Hawaii. The U.S. Dollar is significantly stronger against the Euro and many other currencies as of March 31, 2015 compared to 2014 . At these exchange rates, the growth of our total and international gross profits, expressed in U.S. Dollars, has been and will continue to be significantly adversely impacted through the remainder of 2015. Operating Expenses Advertising Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Online Advertising $ 643,216 $ 520,848 23.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 38.5 % 37.0 % Offline Advertising $ 63,582 $ 53,474 18.9 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.8 % 3.8 % Online advertising expenses consist primarily of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; and (4) banner, pop-up and other Internet and mobile advertisements. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , online advertising expenses increased over the three months ended March 31, 2014 , primarily to generate increased gross bookings. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2015 benefited from the inclusion of OpenTable because OpenTable spends a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising relative to our other brands. In addition, the share of our business coming directly to our websites with no associated online advertising expense increased during the three months ended March 31, 2015 . These favorable impacts were more than offset for the three months ended March 31, 2015 by (1) a year-over-year decline in advertising ROIs and (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group as Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com grew faster than our other brands and typically spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising, trends that we expect to continue. Offline advertising expenses are primarily related to our Booking.com, KAYAK and priceline.com businesses and primarily consist of television advertising. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , offline advertising increased by 18.9% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , primarily due to incremental offline advertising by KAYAK as well as an offline advertising campaign by Booking.com in Germany which started in the third quarter of 2014. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Sales and Marketing $ 81,944 $ 64,311 27.4 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.9 % 4.6 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency accommodation commission receivables; and (4) provisions for credit card chargebacks. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 due primarily to increased gross booking volumes and the inclusion of OpenTable since its acquisition on July 24, 2014. 38 Personnel Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Personnel $ 258,984 $ 194,531 33.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 15.5 % 13.8 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes and employee health benefits. Personnel expenses increased during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our businesses. Additionally, the inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 contributed to this increase in personnel expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Stock-based compensation expense was $54.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to $38.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 . General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change General and Administrative $ 100,178 $ 72,981 37.3 % % of Total Gross Profit 6.0 % 5.2 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) personnel-related expenses such as travel, recruiting and training expenses; (2) occupancy and office expenses; and (3) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , due primarily to higher personnel-related expenses related to increased headcount in all of our businesses and higher occupancy and office expenses related to the expansion of our international businesses. Additionally, the inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 contributed to the increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Information Technology Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Information Technology $ 25,361 $ 23,224 9.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.5 % 1.7 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) software license and system maintenance fees; (2) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; (3) outsourced data center costs; and (4) payments to outside consultants. Information technology expense increased during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. Additionally, the inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 contributed to the increase in information technology expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . 39 Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 65,002 $ 38,376 69.4 % % of Total Gross Profit 3.9 % 2.7 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) depreciation of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures and office equipment. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , depreciation and amortization expense increased compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 due primarily to increased intangible amortization from the OpenTable acquisition and increased depreciation expense due to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build-outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com business. Additionally, the inclusion of OpenTable in our consolidated results since its acquisition on July 24, 2014 contributed to the increase in depreciation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Interest Income $ 11,596 $ 1,041 1,014.3 % Interest Expense (33,479 ) (17,745 ) 88.7 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (4,843 ) (5,969 ) (18.9 )% Total $ (26,726 ) $ (22,673 ) 17.9 % For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , interest income on cash and marketable securities increased compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , primarily due to higher yields and an increase in the average invested balance. Interest expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , primarily due to interest expense attributable to our Senior Notes issued in August 2014, September 2014 and March 2015, partially offset by the maturity of our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes in March 2015. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to foreign exchange losses of $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in losses of $8.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to foreign exchange losses of $2.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , we recognized $1.8 million of net realized gains related to investments, which are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statement of Operations. The conversion of our convertible debt prior to maturity in the three months ended March 31, 2014 resulted in a non-cash loss of $3.4 million and is recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Unaudited Consolidated Statement of Operations. 40 Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change Income Tax Expense $ 73,916 $ 84,835 (12.9 )% Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was 18.2% compared to 20.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%, due to lower tax rates outside the United States, partially offset by U.S. state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. Our effective tax rate was lower for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , due to an increased proportion of our income being taxed at lower international tax rates. Under Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying innovative activities is taxed at a rate of 5% ("Innovation Box Tax") rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities confirming that a portion of its earnings is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment. The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid through December 31, 2017. Until our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, most of our U.S. income will not be subject to a cash tax liability, other than federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our international income except in countries where we have operating loss carryforwards. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income faster than the U.S. business over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international businesses generate an increasing share of our pre-tax income. We will be subject to increased income taxes in the event that our cash balances held outside the United States are remitted to the United States. As of March 31, 2015 , we held approximately $7.1 billion of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments outside of the United States. We currently intend to use our cash held outside the United States to reinvest in our international operations. If our cash balances outside the United States continue to grow and our ability to reinvest those balances outside the United States diminishes, it will become increasingly likely that we will be subject to additional income tax expense in the United States with respect to our unremitted international earnings. We would not make additional income tax payments unless we were to actually repatriate our international cash to the United States. We would pay only U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and certain U.S. state income taxes as long as we have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset our U.S. taxable income. This could result in us being subject to a cash income tax liability on the earnings of our U.S. businesses sooner than would otherwise have been the case. 41 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2015 , we had $9.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments. Approximately $7.1 billion is held by our international subsidiaries and is denominated primarily in U.S. Dollars, Euros and, to a lesser extent, British Pounds Sterling and other currencies. We currently intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of the United States. If we repatriate cash to the United States, we would utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and beyond that amount incur additional tax payments in the United States. Cash equivalents, short-term investments, and long-term investments are comprised of U.S. and foreign corporate bonds, U.S. and foreign government securities, high grade commercial paper, U.S. government agency securities, foreign equity securities and bank deposits. In October 2011, we entered into a $1.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.00% to 1.50%; or (ii) the greatest of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association's prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50%. Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.10% to 0.25%. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $100.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50.0 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of March 31, 2015 , there were no borrowings outstanding under the facility and approximately $3.9 million of letters of credit issued under the facility. During the three months ended March 31, 2015 , we repurchased our common stock for an aggregate cost of $308.6 million . As of March 31, 2015 , we had a remaining aggregate amount of $2.8 billion authorized by our Board of Directors to purchase our common stock. We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital, and other factors. In March 2015, we issued 1.0 billion Euro aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2027, with an interest rate of 1.8% . Interest on the notes is payable annually on March 3, beginning March 3, 2016. We intend to use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include repurchases of our common stock from time to time, repaying outstanding debt and corporate acquisitions. See Note 8 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these notes. In March 2015, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2025, with an interest rate of 3.65% . Interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15, beginning September 15, 2015. We intend to use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include repurchases of our common stock from time to time, repaying outstanding debt and corporate acquisitions. See Note 8 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these notes. Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from our customers and then we pay most of our travel service providers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant swings in deferred merchant bookings and travel service provider payables seasonally depending on the absolute level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , in connection with the maturity or conversion prior to maturity of the remaining outstanding 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes, we paid $37.5 million to satisfy the aggregate principal amount due and paid an additional $110.1 million in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount. Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , was $209.0 million , resulting from net income of $333.3 million and a favorable impact of $111.6 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $236.0 million . For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $292.7 million , principally related to a $361.4 million prepayment of 2015 income taxes by Booking.com to earn a prepayment discount. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , accounts receivable increased $120.6 million primarily due to increases in business volumes. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $201.2 million primarily related to increases in business volumes, partially offset by a reduction in compensation payable as a result of 2014 bonuses being paid in the first quarter of 2015. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based 42 compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes and deferred income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2014 , was $177.0 million , resulting from net income of $331.2 million and a favorable impact of $107.4 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows, partially offset by net unfavorable changes in working capital and other assets and liabilities of $261.7 million . For the three months ended March 31, 2014 , prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $317.8 million , principally related to a $346.4 million prepayment of income taxes for 2014 by Booking.com to earn a prepayment discount. For the three months ended March 31, 2014 , accounts receivable increased $94.2 million primarily due to increases in business volumes. For the three months ended March 31, 2014 , accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $147.6 million primarily related to increases in business volumes combined with an accrual of approximately $41 million for withholding taxes paid in April 2014 for stock-based awards that vested in the first quarter of 2014, partially offset by a reduction in compensation payable as a result of 2013 bonuses being paid in the first quarter of 2014. Non-cash items were principally associated with stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes and deferred income taxes. Net cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . Investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were affected by net purchases of investments of $1.1 billion , $26.2 million used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and net proceeds of $5.2 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts. Net cash used in investing activities was $40.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2014 were affected by net payments of $43.4 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts and a change in restricted cash of $5.1 million , mainly offset by net sales of investments of $40.0 million . Cash invested in purchase of property and equipment was $31.3 million and $29.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.2 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 primarily consisted of total proceeds of $1.6 billion from the issuance of Senior Notes, the exercise of employee stock options of $9.1 million and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $49.5 million , partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $308.6 million and payments of $147.6 million related to the conversion of Senior Notes. Net cash used in financing activities was $141.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily consisted of treasury stock purchases of $96.7 million and payments of $58.4 million related to the conversion of senior notes, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $7.7 million and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $5.5 million . Contingencies A number of U.S. jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against online travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of travel transaction taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). In addition, a number of U.S. states, counties and municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of travel transaction taxes. To date, the majority of taxing jurisdictions in which we facilitate the making of travel reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on our travel services. With respect to jurisdictions that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect taxes from us only on a prospective basis. See Note 12 to the Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and proceedings, and Part II Item 1A Risk Factors - " Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations " in this Quarterly Report. As a result of this litigation and other attempts by U.S. jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual for the potential resolution of issues related to travel transaction taxes in the amount of approximately $35 million at March 31, 2015 and $52 million at December 31, 2014 (which includes, among other things, amounts related to the litigation in the State of Hawaii, San Antonio, District of Columbia and Chicago). The March 2015 ruling by the Hawaii Supreme Court significantly reduced the Company's (and other OTCs') liability and as a result the Company reduced its accrual for travel transaction taxes (including estimated interest and penalties) by $16.4 million with a corresponding reduction to cost of revenues. The accrual is based on our estimate of the probable cost of resolving these issues. Our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded. An estimate for a reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount accrued cannot be reasonably made. If we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending 43 proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash we believe that it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2015 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Sections of this Form 10-Q including, in particular, our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above and the Risk Factors contained in Part II Item 1A hereof, contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Part II Item 1A, Risk Factors. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 , and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.