Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands, except per share amounts) Total revenues $ 5,260,956 $ 4,355,610 $ 3,084,905 $ 2,338,212 $ 1,884,806 Cost of revenues 1,177,275 1,275,730 1,175,934 1,077,449 928,835 Gross profit 4,083,681 3,079,880 1,908,971 1,260,763 955,971 Total operating expenses 2,253,888 1,680,958 1,122,174 789,928 666,497 Operating income 1,829,793 1,398,922 786,797 470,835 289,474 Total other expense 67,924 31,128 40,514 28,533 13,369 Income tax expense (benefit) (1) 337,832 308,663 218,141 (47,168 ) 90,171 Equity in income (loss) income of investees 2 (310 ) Net income (1) 1,424,037 1,059,131 528,142 489,472 185,624 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (2) 4,471 2,760 601 3,378 Net income applicable to common stockholders (1) 1,419,566 1,056,371 527,541 489,472 182,246 Net income applicable to common stockholders per basic common share (1) 28.48 21.27 11.00 11.54 4.64 Net income applicable to common stockholders per diluted share (1) 27.66 20.63 10.35 9.88 3.74 Total assets 6,569,742 3,970,671 2,905,953 1,834,224 1,312,421 Long-term obligations, redeemable noncontrolling interests (3) 1,731,385 788,218 621,624 263,708 459,928 Total liabilities 2,457,825 1,191,971 1,046,828 476,610 538,520 Total stockholders equity 3,896,975 2,574,295 1,813,336 1,321,629 698,826 _____________________________ (1) The Company recorded non-cash income tax benefits for the year ended December 31, 2009, resulting from the reversal of a portion of its valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards of $183.3 million. (2) In September 2008, the Company repurchased all of the remaining outstanding shares underlying noncontrolling interests in priceline.com International Limited. Redeemable noncontrolling interests beginning in 2010 relates to the Company's purchase of rentalcars.com in May 2010. In April 2011, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2011, the redeemable noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com were reduced from 24.4% to 19.0%. In April 2012, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2012, the redeemable noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com were reduced from 19.0% to 12.7%. (3) Includes convertible debt which is classified as a current liability. 36 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in this Form 10-K. As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," this discussion contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause those differences include those discussed in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Overview We are a leading online travel company that offers our customers hotel and accommodation reservations at over 295,000 properties worldwide (as of February 25, 2013) through the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda.com brands. In the United States, we also offer our customers reservations for car rentals, airline tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises through the priceline.com brand. We offer car rental reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com (formerly known as TravelJigsaw). We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include Booking.com, Agoda.com and rentalcars.com, which are independently managed and operated international brands. Our principal goal is to serve our customers with worldwide leadership in online hotel, accommodation and rental car reservations. Our business is driven primarily by international results. During the year ended December 31, 2012, our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 82% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately 92% of our consolidated operating income. Given that our international business is primarily comprised of hotel reservation services, and that hotel reservations also represent a significant majority of our domestic business, gross profit earned in connection with the reservation of hotel room nights represents a substantial majority of our gross profit. Our priceline.com brand in the United States offers merchant Name Your Own Price travel services (sometimes referred to as "opaque" travel services because certain elements of the service are not disclosed to the customer prior to booking), which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue. Retail, or price-disclosed, travel services (including semi-opaque travel services) offered by both our U.S. and international brands are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue. Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between Name Your Own Price and retail travel services. Gross profit reflects the net margin earned for both our Name Your Own Price and retail travel services. Consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business. At present, we derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of price-disclosed hotels, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our price-disclosed hotel, rental car, and vacation package reservation services; Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservation services; Global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees related to our Name Your Own Price hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservation services, and price-disclosed airline ticket and rental car services; and Other gross profit derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites. Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in the number of hotel room night reservations booked through our hotel reservation services. We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the high growth of travel overall in emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America, and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build hotel supply, content and distribution and to improve the customer experience on our websites. We experienced strong year-over-year growth in recent years, though that growth has generally decelerated. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2012, our hotel room night growth was 38%, a substantial deceleration from 53% in the fourth quarter of 2011. Given the sheer size of our hotel reservation business, we believe it is highly likely that our year-over-year growth rates will continue to decelerate, though the rate of deceleration may not be consistent. For example, our fourth quarter 2012 room-night growth of 38% reflects slight acceleration from 36% in the 37 third quarter of 2012, driven in part by high rates of growth in Asia-Pacific and South America, which typically represent a larger proportion of our business in the fourth quarter based on seasonality. However, we expect the long term deceleration trend to continue, and we therefore expect to experience further deceleration in growth rates in the first quarter of 2013 and beyond. Many governments around the world, including the U.S. government and certain European governments, are operating at very large financial deficits. Failure to reach political consensus regarding workable solutions to these issues has resulted in a high level of uncertainty regarding the future economic outlook. This uncertainty, as well as concern over governmental austerity measures including higher taxes and reduced government spending, could impair consumer spending and adversely affect travel demand. Over recent quarters, we have experienced declines in transaction growth rates and weaker trends in hotel average daily rates ("ADRs") across many regions of the world, particularly in those European countries that appear to be most affected by economic uncertainties. We believe that these business trends are likely impacted by weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns. The uncertainty of macro-economic factors and their impact on consumer behavior across regions, which may differ, makes it more difficult to forecast industry and consumer trends and the timing and degree of their impact on our markets and business, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Large, established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating - and we believe intend to further create - inroads into online travel, both in the United States and internationally. For example, following its acquisition of ITA Software, Inc., a major flight information software company, Google launched a flight search tool that enables consumers to find fares, schedules and availability directly on Google and excludes participation by online travel agents ("OTAs") such as us within the search results. Google has also invested in HomeAway, a publicly traded vacation home rental service, and launched "Hotel Finder," a utility that allows consumers to search and compare hotel accommodations based on parameters set by the consumer and that Google has at times placed at or near the top of hotel-related search results. In addition, Microsoft has launched Bing Travel , which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online and predicts the best time to purchase them. "Meta-search" services leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the consumer's specific itinerary across travel service provider (e.g., airlines or hotels), OTA and other websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers. Furthermore, certain travel service providers limit OTA participation within the meta-search results. Some meta-search services that offer consumers the ability to make hotel reservations directly through their websites may evolve into more traditional OTAs. Meta-search services intend to appeal to consumers by showing more detailed travel search results, including specific information for their own itineraries than may be available through OTAs or other websites, which could lead to travel service providers or others gaining a larger share of search traffic or may ultimately lead to search engines executing transactions within their own websites. If Google (the largest search engine in the world), Bing or other leading search engines refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, or otherwise favor supplier websites or other travel service websites over OTAs, including us, or if meta-search or travel research services limit our participation within their search results, it would likely become more difficult and expensive for us to generate traffic to our websites and therefore to maintain or grow our market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Several major hotel companies, comprising Choice Hotels International, Hilton Worldwide, Hyatt, InterContinental Hotels Group, Wyndham Hotel Group, Marriott, La Quinta and Millennium, launched Room Key, an online hotel reservation service that competes directly with our hotel reservation services. The hotel companies that own Room Key have a stated goal of driving consumers directly to their brand websites, thus reducing the share received by OTAs. They may also attempt to improve their competitive position by offering lower room rates, better room availability or additional features or amenities through Room Key than are available through services like ours. If Room Key is successful, our share of the online hotel room night reservation market could be negatively affected and our business could suffer. There has been a proliferation of new channels through which hotels can offer hotel room reservations. For example, some hotels offer room reservations through daily deal websites such as Groupon and Living Social, which sell coupons to customers at a substantial discount. In 2011, Expedia, one of our largest competitors, entered into a partnership with Groupon to sell hotel room reservations to Groupon customers under the Groupon Getaways brand name. New entrants, such as BackBid, GuestMob and Tingo, as well as Hipmunk and Room 77, have developed new and differentiated offerings that endeavor to provide savings on hotel rooms to consumers and that compete directly with us. If any of these new services are successful, we may experience less demand for our services and are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. Widespread adoption of mobile devices, such as the iPhone, Android-enabled smart phones, and tablets such as the iPad, coupled with the improved web browsing functionality and development of thousands of useful apps available on these devices, is driving substantial traffic and commerce activity to mobile platforms. We have experienced a significant shift of 38 business to mobile platforms and our advertising partners are also seeing a rapid shift of traffic to mobile platforms. Our major competitors and certain new market entrants are offering mobile applications for travel products and other functionality, including proprietary last-minute discounts for hotel bookings. Advertising and distribution opportunities may be more limited on mobile devices given their smaller screen sizes. The gross profit earned on a mobile transaction may be less than a typical desktop transaction due to different consumer purchasing patterns. For example, hotel reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and are not made as far in advance. We have made significant progress creating mobile offerings, which have received strong reviews, solid download trends, and are driving a material and increasing shares of our business. We believe that mobile bookings present an opportunity for growth and are necessary to maintain and grow our business as consumers increasingly turn to mobile devices instead of a personal computer and to mobile applications instead of a web browser. If we are unable to continue to rapidly innovate and create new and differentiated mobile offerings, and efficiently and effectively advertise and distribute on these platforms, we could lose market share to existing competitors or new entrants. Apple, Inc., one of the most successful companies in the world and producer of, among other things, the iPhone and iPad, recently obtained a patent for "iTravel," a mobile app that would allow a traveler to check in for a travel reservation. In addition, Apple's most recent iPhone operating system includes "Passbook," a virtual wallet app that holds tickets, boarding passes, coupons and gift cards, and along with iTravel, may be indicative of Apple's intent to enter the travel reservations business in some capacity. Apple has substantial market share in the smart phone category and controls integration of offerings, including travel services, into its mobile operating system. Apple also has more experience producing and developing mobile apps and has access to greater resources, than we have. Apple may use or expand iTravel, Passbook, Siri (Apple's voice recognition concierge service) or another mobile app as a means of entering the travel reservations marketplace. Similarly, Google's Android operating system is the leading smartphone operating system in the world. As a result, Google could leverage its Android operating system to give its travel services a competitive advantage, either technically or with prominence on its Google Play app store or within its mobile search results. To the extent Apple or Google use their mobile operating systems or app distribution channels to favor their own travel service offerings, our business could be harmed. We use online search engines, price comparison and travel research services, and affiliate marketing as primary means of generating traffic to our websites. As a result, our online advertising expense has increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue. In addition, our online advertising has grown faster than our gross profit due to (1) brand mix within the Priceline Group, (2) channel mix within our brands and (3) recently, lower returns on investment (ROIs) from our online advertising. Our international brands are growing faster than our priceline.com U.S. brand, and spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. Furthermore, our brands are generally obtaining an increasing share of traffic through paid online advertising channels. Finally, our online advertising ROIs have recently been down year-over-year. Advertising efficiency is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability, including without limitation, ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates and the extent to which we are successful in converting paid traffic to booking customers and then having customers return directly to our websites and mobile apps for future bookings. International Trends . The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States. Historically, Internet adoption rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the United States. However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel. Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States. We expect that over the long-term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States. In addition, the base of hotel properties in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains. We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States. Our growth has primarily been generated by our international hotel reservation service brands, Booking.com and Agoda.com. Booking.com, our most significant brand, includes over 275,000 hotels and accommodations on its website as of February 25, 2013 (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from both a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate. We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate. We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the leading online hotel and accommodation reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. As our international business represents the substantial majority of our results, we expect to continue to see our operating expenses and other financial metrics largely driven by international performance. For example, certain newer markets in which we operate that are in earlier stages of development have lower operating margins compared to more mature 39 markets, which could have a negative impact on our overall margins as these markets increase in size over time. Also, we intend to continue to invest in adding properties to our websites. Many of the newer properties we add, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms, lower ADRs or higher credit risk, and may appeal to a smaller subset of customers (for example, hostels and bed and breakfasts), and therefore may also negatively impact our margins over time. Another impact of the size of our international business is our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. Because we are conducting a substantial majority of our business outside the United States and are reporting our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international business are translated from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation. For example, a strengthening of the Euro increases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars, while a weakening of the Euro decreases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars. Greece, Ireland, Portugal and certain other European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt have had difficulty refinancing their debt. Concern around devaluation or abandonment of the Euro common currency, or that sovereign default risk may be more widespread and could include the United States, has led to significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the U.S. Dollar and other currencies. We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results. However, such derivative instruments are short term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuation that could impact our foreign currency denominated gross bookings, revenue or gross profit (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts). For example, while revenue from our international business grew year-over-year on a local currency basis by approximately 48% for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the same period in 2011, as a result of the negative impact of currency exchange rates, revenue from our international business as reported in U.S. Dollars grew 39% for the year ended December 31, 2012. Domestic Trends . Competition in domestic online travel remains intense and online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantages. In particular, the competition to provide "opaque" hotel reservation services to consumers, an area in which our priceline.com U.S. business has been a leader, has become more intense. For example, Expedia makes opaque hotel room reservations available on its principal website under the name "Expedia Unpublished Rates" and has supported this initiative with steeper discounts through lower margins. As with our Name Your Own Price hotel booking service, the name of the hotel is not disclosed until after booking. We believe these offerings, in particular "Expedia Unpublished Rates", have adversely impacted the market share and year-over-year growth rate for our opaque hotel service, which experienced a decline in room night reservations in 2012 compared to 2011. This decline may have been exacerbated by a shift in our advertising in 2012 to focus on our non-opaque hotel reservation services. These and other competitors could also launch opaque rental car services, which could negatively impact our opaque Name Your Own Price rental car service. In addition, some hotels offer discounted room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social. If Expedia or others are successful in growing their opaque and semi-opaque hotel reservation services, and/or "daily deal" websites are successful in garnering a sizable share of discounted hotel bookings, we may have less consumer demand for our opaque and semi-opaque hotel reservation services over time, and we would face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. In an effort to compete more effectively against these new offerings, in 2012 we launched Express Deals, a semi-opaque price-disclosed hotel reservation service. However, Express Deals may not be successful at recovering or growing lost hotel reservation service market share. As a result, we believe our share of the discount hotel reservation market in the United States could further decrease. While demand for online travel services in the United States continues to experience annualized growth, we believe that the domestic market share of third-party distributors is impacted in part by a concerted initiative by travel service providers to direct customers to their own websites in an effort to reduce distribution expenses and establish more direct control over their pricing. The launch of Room Key discussed above is demonstrative of such efforts. In addition, certain airlines have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online channel other than their own website. Travel service providers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours. Some travel service providers are encouraging third-party travel intermediaries, such as us, to develop technology to bypass the traditional GDSs, such as enabling direct connections to the travel suppliers or using alternative global distribution methods. For example, in 2011, we enabled a direct connection with American Airlines. During 2011, American Airlines content was temporarily unavailable on Expedia and Orbitz due to disputes related to enabling a direct connection. We believe that this is consistent with an effort on the part of American Airlines, and the airline industry in general, to reduce distribution costs and could be indicative of the airlines in general becoming more aggressive in requiring OTAs to implement direct connections. Development and implementation of the technology to enable additional direct connections to travel service 40 providers could cause us to incur additional operating expenses, increase the frequency/duration of system problems and delay other projects. In addition, any additional migration toward direct connections would reduce the compensation we receive from GDSs. Domestic airlines have reduced capacity and increased fares since the latter part of 2009, a trend which may continue. Decreases in capacity reduce the amount of airline tickets available, while significant increases in average airfares have adversely impacted leisure travel demand. Reduced airline capacity and demand negatively impact our priceline.com air ticket reservation business, which in turn has negative repercussions on our priceline.com hotel and rental car businesses. Our rental car business has also been impacted by an increase in the utilization of rental car fleets, resulting in less opaque rental car availability, which has negatively impacted our Name Your Own Price rental car service. We expect continued variability in the breadth and depth of discounted airline tickets and rental car rates made available to us in the future, depending on market conditions from time to time. Seasonality . A meaningful amount of retail gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America. However, we generally do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs. From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which bookings are generated. As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for the year for our North American and European businesses. However, we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters. Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results. In addition, our Name Your Own Price services are generally non-refundable in nature, and accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking is generated. However, we recognize revenue generated from our retail hotel services at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel. Therefore, if our retail hotel business continues to grow faster than our Name Our Own Price services, we expect our quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal factors. Other Factors . We believe that our success will depend in large part on our ability to continue to profitably grow our brands worldwide, and, over time, to offer other travel services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, higher oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, volcanic eruptions (such as the April 2010 eruption of a volcano in Iceland), travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities or travel related accidents could adversely affect our business and results of operations and impair our ability to effectively implement all or some of the initiatives described above. For example, in late 2012 Hurricane Sandy disrupted travel in the northeastern United States. In early 2011, Japan was struck by a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency. In October 2011, severe flooding in Thailand, a key market for our Agoda.com business and the Asian business of Booking.com, negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market. In addition, in early 2010, Thailand experienced disruptive civil unrest, which caused the temporary relocation of Agoda.com's Thailand-based operations. Future natural disasters or civil or political unrest could further disrupt our business and operations. We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating leverage. We have experienced pressure on operating margins as we prioritize initiatives that drive growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to grow gross profit and achieve healthy operating margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we may not be able to sustain gross profit growth and profitability. In November 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire KAYAK Software Corporation, a leading travel meta-search service, in a stock and cash transaction. Under the terms of the agreement, the transaction values KAYAK at $1.8 billion ($1.65 billion net of cash acquired) or $40 per share of KAYAK common stock, with $500 million to be paid in cash, which is expected to be made from cash on hand in the United States, and $1.3 billion to be paid in shares of our common stock and assumed stock options (subject to a volume-weighted average trading price calculation and a collar on the value of our common stock). The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2013, pending approval from relevant regulatory authorities and KAYAK shareholders. 41 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our significant accounting policies and estimates are more fully described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting policies and estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. In applying those policies, our management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the items described below. Those estimates are based on, among other things, historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies that involve significant estimates and judgments of management include the following: Accounting for State and Local "Hotel Occupancy" Taxes . As discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are currently involved in approximately forty lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other related taxes (e.g., state and local sales tax and general excise tax) and our merchant hotel business. We are also involved in one consumer lawsuit relating to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy taxes and service fees. In addition, over seventy municipalities or counties, and at least eight states, have initiated audit proceedings (including proceedings initiated by more than forty municipalities in California), issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy and other related taxes. Additional state and local jurisdictions are likely to assert that we are subject to, among other things, hotel occupancy and other related taxes and could seek to collect such taxes, retroactively and/or prospectively. Historically, we have not collected hotel occupancy or other taxes on the gross profit earned from merchant hotel transactions; however, in a handful of jurisdictions, we have been recently required by passage of a new statute or court order, to start collecting and remitting certain taxes (local occupancy and/or sales or excise tax) imposed upon our margin and/or service fee. The ultimate resolution of these matters in all jurisdictions cannot be determined at this time. We have established an accrual for potential resolution of issues related to hotel occupancy and other related taxes for prior and current periods, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances. We accrue for legal contingencies where it is probable that a loss has occurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated; our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued. A variety of factors could affect the amount of the liability (both past and future), which factors include, but are not limited to, the number of, and amount of gross profit represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement and changes in relevant statutes. The ultimate resolution of these matters may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Stock-Based Compensation. We record stock-based compensation expense for equity-based awards over the recipient's service period based upon the grant date fair value of the award. A number of our equity awards have performance targets (a performance "contingency") which, if satisfied, can increase the number of shares issued to the recipients at the end of the performance period or, in certain instances, if not satisfied, reduce the number of shares issued to the recipients, sometimes to zero, at the end of the performance period. The performance periods for our performance based equity awards are typically three years. We record stock-based compensation expense for these performance-based awards based upon our estimate of the probable outcome at the end of the performance period (i.e., the estimated performance against the performance targets). We periodically adjust the cumulative stock-based compensation recorded when the probable outcome for these performance-based awards is updated based upon changes in actual and forecasted operating results. Stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 includes charges amounting to $0.9 million, $10.3 million and $13.4 million, respectively, representing the cumulative impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome of unvested performance share units. Our actual performance against the performance targets could differ materially from our estimates. We record stock-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures. In determining the estimated forfeiture rates, we periodically review actual and projected forfeitures. To the extent that actual or projected forfeiture rates differ from current estimates, such amounts are recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which the estimate is revised. 42 Valuation of Goodwill . We have recorded goodwill related to businesses we have acquired. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment using appropriate valuation techniques. In the event that future circumstances indicate that any portion of our goodwill is impaired, an impairment charge would be recorded. A substantial amount of our goodwill relates to our acquisition of Booking.com. The estimated fair value for Booking.com, as well as our other reporting units, is substantially in excess of their respective carrying values. Since the annual impairment test in September 2012, there have been no events or changes in circumstances to indicate a potential impairment. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles. We evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate that the carrying amounts of long-lived assets and intangibles may be impaired. The significant factors that are considered that could trigger an impairment review include changes in business strategies, market conditions, or the manner of use of an asset; under performance relative to historical or expected future operating results; and negative industry or economic trends. In evaluating an asset for possible impairment, management estimates that asset's future undiscounted cash flows to measure whether the carrying value of the asset is recoverable. If it is determined that the asset is not recoverable, we measure the impairment based upon the fair value of the asset compared to its carrying value. The fair value represents the projected discounted cash flows of the asset over its remaining life. Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance . We periodically evaluate the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future income, the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. The deferred tax asset at December 31, 2012 amounted to $72.2 million. The valuation allowance may need to be adjusted in the future if facts and circumstances change, causing a reassessment of the amount of deferred tax assets more likely than not to be realized. Recent Accounting Pronouncements On January 1, 2012, we adopted the amended accounting guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") concerning the presentation of comprehensive income. The new guidance requires comprehensive income to be reported in either a single statement or in two consecutive statements reporting net income and other comprehensive income. We selected to present two consecutive statements. This amended guidance did not change the items that constitute net income or other comprehensive income, the timing of when other comprehensive income is reclassified to net income, or the earnings per share computation. In February 2013, the FASB issued new accounting guidance which adds new disclosure requirements for items reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income. The new guidance requires that companies present either in a single note or parenthetically on the face of the financial statements, the effect of significant amounts reclassified based on its source and is effective for public companies in interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 13, 2012. We will comply with the new disclosure requirements beginning in the first quarter of 2013. In September 2011, the FASB issued an accounting update, which amended the guidance on testing goodwill for impairment. Under the revised guidance, entities testing goodwill for impairment have the option of performing a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the reporting unit. If, based on the qualitative factors, it is more-likely-than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then the unchanged two-step approach previously used would be required. The new accounting guidance did not change how goodwill is calculated, how goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit, or the requirements for testing goodwill annually or when events and circumstances warrant testing. The accounting update was effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. In September 2012, we performed our annual quantitative goodwill impairment testing, and concluded that the estimated fair value for each reporting unit substantially exceeds its respective carrying value. In May 2010, the FASB issued amended guidance on fair value to largely achieve common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements between U.S. GAAP and IFRS. The new accounting guidance did not extend the use of fair value but rather provided guidance about how fair value should be determined. For U.S. GAAP, most of the changes were clarifications of existing guidance or wording changes to align with IFRS. The amended guidance expanded disclosure, particularly relating to fair value measurements based on unobservable inputs, permitted fair value measurements for financial assets and liabilities on a net position if market or credit risks are managed on a net basis and other criteria are met, and allowed premiums and discounts only if a market participant would also include them in the fair value measurement. This accounting 43 update was effective for public companies for interim or annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this accounting guidance, effective with the three months ended March 31, 2012, did not impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosure. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2012 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2011 Operating and Statistical Metrics Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking activity generated by our travel services. Specifically, reservations of hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units purchased by our customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers, and is widely used in the travel business. International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings for our international brands and operations, and domestic gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings by our domestic operations, in each case without regard to the travel destination or the location of the customer purchasing the travel. Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our international and domestic operations for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2012 2011 Change International $ 23,370 $ 16,909 38.2 % Domestic 5,086 4,748 7.1 % Total $ 28,456 $ 21,658 31.4 % Gross bookings increased by 31.4% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011 (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 37%), principally due to 39.5% growth in hotel room night reservations, partly offset by foreign currency impact and slower growth rates for our non-hotel businesses. The 38.2% increase in international gross bookings for the year ended December 31, 2012 (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 46%) was primarily attributable to growth in hotel room night reservations for our Booking.com and Agoda.com businesses, as well as growth in rental car reservations for our rentalcars.com business. Domestic gross bookings increased by 7.1% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, primarily due to an increase in price-disclosed airline ticket reservations and associated higher airfares, as well as an increase in price-disclosed hotel room night reservations and associated higher average daily rates ("ADRs"). Retail rental car day reservations for our priceline.com business also increased in the year ended December 31, 2012. Our Name Your Own Price hotel, air, and rental car businesses experienced a decline in reservations in the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011. Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2012 2011 Change Agency $ 23,284 $ 17,610 32.2 % Merchant 5,172 4,048 27.8 % Total $ 28,456 $ 21,658 31.4 % Agency gross bookings increased 32.2% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, due primarily to growth in Booking.com hotel room night reservations. Our U.S. priceline.com business also experienced 44 growth in reservations of agency price-disclosed hotel room nights, airline tickets, and rental car days. Merchant gross bookings increased 27.8% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, primarily due to an increase in Agoda.com hotel room night reservations and rentalcars.com rental car day reservations. Higher ADRs drove growth in merchant gross bookings related to our priceline.com price-disclosed hotel business, while our Name Your Own Price hotel business experienced a decline in hotel room night reservations for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the same period in 2011, due to the competitive pressures discussed above in Domestic Trends . Gross bookings related to Name Your Own Price rental car reservations and airline ticket reservations also experienced a decline for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011. Year Ended Hotel Room Nights Rental Car Days Airline Tickets December 31, 2012 197.5 million 32.0 million 6.4 million December 31, 2011 141.6 million 23.8 million 6.2 million Hotel room night reservations increased by 39.5% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, principally due to an increase in Booking.com, Agoda.com and priceline.com price-disclosed hotel room night reservations, partially offset by a decline in Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations as a result of increased domestic competition in the opaque hotel room reservation market, including from Expedia's "Expedia Unpublished Rates" service. Booking.com, our most significant brand, includes over 275,000 hotels and accommodations on its website as of February 25, 2013 (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added properties over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets, which are growing faster than our overall growth rate and our core European market. Our U.S. priceline.com agency hotel reservations benefited from the integration of hotels from the Booking.com extranet on the priceline.com website. Rental car day reservations increased by 34.9% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, due primarily to an increase in rental car day reservations for our rentalcars.com business and priceline.com price-disclosed business, partially offset by a decline in Name Your Own Price rental car day reservations due to limited availability of discounted supply as well as lower retail pricing. Airline ticket reservations increased by 2.7% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, due to an increase in price-disclosed airline ticket reservations partially offset by a decrease in Name Your Own Price ticket reservations for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, due to limited availability of discounted supply. Revenues We classify our revenue into three categories: Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, GDS reservation booking fees related to certain travel services and customer processing fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. Principally all of the revenue for Booking.com is comprised of travel commissions. Merchant revenues are derived from services where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer's credit card for the travel services provided. Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of Name Your Own Price hotel room night, rental car and airline ticket reservations and price-disclosed vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by travel service providers in connection with (a) the hotel room reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service at Agoda.com and priceline.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant semi-opaque rental car service at rentalcars.com and merchant semi-opaque hotel service at priceline.com, which allows customers to see the price of the reservation prior to purchase but not the identity of the travel service provider; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of Name Your Own Price hotel room night, rental car and airline ticket reservations and merchant price-disclosed hotel 45 reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. Other revenues are derived primarily from advertising on our websites. Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Agency Revenues $ 3,142,815 $ 2,339,253 34.4 % Merchant Revenues 2,104,752 2,004,432 5.0 % Other Revenues 13,389 11,925 12.3 % Total Revenues $ 5,260,956 $ 4,355,610 20.8 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased 34.4% compared to the same period in 2011, primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com. Our U.S. agency revenues benefited from the integration of hotels from the Booking.com extranet on the priceline.com website as well as growth in our priceline.com retail rental car business. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased 5.0% compared to the same period in 2011, primarily due to increases in our Agoda.com hotel business, rentalcars.com rental car business and priceline.com merchant price-disclosed hotel business, partially offset by a decline in our Name Your Own Price businesses. Merchant revenue growth over the prior year period was substantially lower than merchant gross bookings growth because our merchant revenues are disproportionately affected by our Name Your Own Price business. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded gross with a corresponding provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and represented a smaller percentage, year-over-year, of total revenues compared to our faster-growing Agoda.com and rentalcars.com businesses, which are recorded in revenue "net" of provider cost. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Other Revenues Other revenues consisted primarily of advertising revenues. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased compared to the same period in 2011. Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Cost of Revenues $ 1,177,275 $ 1,275,730 (7.7 )% % of Merchant Revenues 55.9 % 63.6 % Cost of Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2012, cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of Name Your Own Price rental cars from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes; and (3) the cost of Name Your Own Price airline tickets, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 decreased by 7.7%, compared to the same period in 2011, primarily due to a decrease in our Name Your Own Price businesses. Merchant price-disclosed hotel room and car rental reservations are recorded in merchant revenues net of the amounts paid to travel service providers, and therefore, there is no associated cost of revenues for merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues. Cost of revenues as a percentage of merchant revenues decreased for the year ended December 46 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, a trend we expect to continue, primarily due to the increase in Agoda.com and rentalcars.com revenues, all of which are recorded in revenue "net" of provider cost. Cost of revenues also includes approximately $21 million (including estimated interest and penalties) for an accrual recorded for the year ended December 31, 2012 related to hotel occupancy and other related taxes in the State of Hawaii and in the District of Columbia (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Agency revenues have no cost of revenue. Agency revenues principally consist of travel commissions on hotel reservations. Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Gross Profit $ 4,083,681 $ 3,079,880 32.6 % Gross Margin 77.6 % 70.7 % Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased by 32.6% compared to the same period in 2011, primarily as a result of increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, because our revenues are disproportionately affected by our Name Your Own Price business. Name Your Own Price revenues are recorded gross with a corresponding travel service provider cost recorded in cost of revenues, and in 2012 represented a smaller percentage of total revenues than in 2011. Our retail price-disclosed businesses, which are recorded in revenue "net" of provider cost, have been growing faster than our Name Your Own Price businesses. As a result, we believe that gross profit is an important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $3.6 billion of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2012, which compares to $2.6 billion for the same period in 2011. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 48% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011. Gross profit attributable to our priceline.com U.S. business increased by approximately 2% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011. Gross profit for our priceline.com U.S. business was negatively impacted by an accrual of approximately $21 million (including estimated interest and penalties) recorded for the year ended December 31, 2012 related to legal rulings in the State of Hawaii and the District of Columbia pertaining to hotel occupancy and other related taxes (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Operating Expenses Advertising Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Online Advertising $ 1,273,637 $ 919,214 38.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 31.2 % 29.8 % Offline Advertising $ 35,492 $ 35,470 0.1 % % of Total Gross Profit 0.9 % 1.2 % Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; (4) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (5) email campaigns. For the year ended December 31, 2012, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2011, primarily to support increased hotel room night reservations for Booking.com and Agoda.com, increased rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and increased travel reservations for priceline.com. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit increased for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011. The increase is driven by (1) brand mix within the Priceline Group, (2) the channel mix within our brands and (3) recently lower returns on investment ("ROIs") from our online advertising. Our international brands are growing faster than our priceline.com U.S. brand, and spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. Furthermore, our brands generally are obtaining an increasing 47 share of traffic through paid online advertising channels. Finally, our online advertising ROIs have recently been down year-over-year. Offline advertising expenses are related to our television, print and radio advertising for our priceline.com U.S. business. For the year ended December 31, 2012, offline advertising was flat compared to the same period in 2011. Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Sales and Marketing $ 195,934 $ 162,690 20.4 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.8 % 5.3 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables. For the year ended December 31, 2012, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2011, primarily due to increased gross booking volumes as well as expenses related to increased content translations. The increase was partially offset by reduced credit card processing fees resulting from the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Financial Reform and Consumer Protection Act (which amendment caps the interchange fee for debit card transactions and went into effect on October 1, 2011). Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of gross profit are typically higher for our merchant business which incurs credit card processing fees. Our merchant business grew more slowly than our agency business, and as a result, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross profit for year ended December 31, 2012, declined compared to the same period in 2011. Personnel Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Personnel $ 466,828 $ 352,295 32.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 11.4 % 11.4 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses, payroll taxes and employee health benefits. For the year ended December 31, 2012, personnel expenses increased over the same period in 2011, due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our international businesses and the one-time wage tax levy of approximately $14 million described below. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $71.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to $65.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 included charges amounting to $0.9 million and $10.3 million, respectively, representing the cumulative impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period for certain outstanding unvested performance share units. In July 2012, the Dutch Government enacted certain amendments to Dutch tax law including, among other things, a one-time irrecoverable levy on an employer equal to 16% of an employee's 2012 earnings in excess of 150,000 Euros. The levy will be remitted to the tax authorities in 2013. The tax law amendments provide for this levy to automatically be repealed after 2013. This levy resulted in additional payroll taxes recorded in personnel expense of approximately $14 million (approximately $10 million after tax). Of the total additional payroll taxes, approximately $13 million were recorded in the third quarter of 2012. 48 General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change General and Administrative $ 173,171 $ 123,652 40.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.2 % 4.0 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) personnel related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses; (2) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses; and (3) occupancy expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2012 over the same period in 2011, primarily due to expansion of our office capacity worldwide to support continued growth in our international operations. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012 includes approximately $3 million of professional fees related to the acquisition of KAYAK and a charge of approximately $3 million related to certain leased space that was vacated in connection with the relocation of Booking.com's headquarters to a new location in Amsterdam. Additionally, we have had higher recruiting, training and travel expenses related to increased headcount in all of our businesses. Information Technology Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Information Technology $ 43,685 $ 33,813 29.2 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.1 % 1.1 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) outsourced data center costs relating to our U.S. and international data centers; (2) system maintenance and software license fees; (3) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services; and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the increase in information technology expenses compared to the same period in 2011 was due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 65,141 $ 53,824 21.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.6 % 1.7 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) amortization of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office equipment and furniture and fixtures. For the year ended December 31, 2012, depreciation expense increased from the same period in 2011 due principally to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com brand. We expect future capital expenditures to also be higher than prior historical levels as we continue to invest to support business growth. 49 Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Interest Income $ 3,860 $ 8,119 (52.5 )% Interest Expense (62,064 ) (31,721 ) 95.7 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (9,720 ) (7,526 ) 29.2 % Total $ (67,924 ) $ (31,128 ) 118.2 % For the year ended December 31, 2012, interest income on cash and marketable securities decreased over the same period in 2011, primarily due to lower yields partially offset by an increase in the average balance invested. Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the same period in 2011, primarily due to an increase in the average outstanding debt resulting from the March 2012 issuance of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes, and fees on the undrawn $1.0 billion revolving credit facility entered into in October 2011. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operating results into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $0.7 million and $4.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in losses of $10.5 million and $11.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we began classifying certain foreign currency processing fees as an offset to revenue earned from the third party that processes the payments for merchant hotel transactions. Such processing fees recorded to "Foreign currency transactions and other" for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 amounted to approximately $5.0 million. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Income Tax Expense $ 337,832 $ 308,663 9.5 % Our effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were 19.2% and 22.6% , respectively. The decrease in our effective tax rate is primarily due to an increase in the Innovation Box Tax benefit in 2012. Our effective tax rate differs from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%, principally due to lower foreign tax rates, partially offset by state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses. Effective January 1, 2010, the Netherlands modified its corporate income tax law related to income generated from qualifying "innovative" activities (the "Innovation Box Tax"). Earnings that qualify for the Innovation Box Tax are taxed at the rate of 5% rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25.0%. Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities in February 2011 confirming that a portion of its earnings ("qualifying earnings") is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment. In this ruling, the Dutch tax authorities require that the Innovation Box Tax benefit be phased in over a multi-year period. The benefit is fully phased in for the Company starting in 2012. The amount of qualifying earnings expressed as a percentage of the total pretax earnings in the Netherlands will vary depending upon the level of total pretax earnings that is achieved in any given year. The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2014, which includes a one year extension granted by the Dutch tax authorities in August 2012. In order to be eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment, Booking.com must, among other things, apply for and obtain a research and development ("R&D") certificate from a Dutch governmental agency every six months confirming that the activities that Booking.com intends to be engaged in over the subsequent six month period are "innovative." The R&D certificate is current but should Booking.com fail to secure such a certificate in any future period - for example, because the 50 governmental agency does not view Booking.com's new or anticipated activities as "innovative" - or should this agency determine that the activities contemplated to be performed in a prior period were not performed as contemplated or did not comply with the agency's requirements, Booking.com may lose its certificate and, as a result, the Innovation Box Tax benefit may be reduced or eliminated. Booking.com intends to apply for continued Innovation Box Tax treatment for future periods. Booking.com's application may not be accepted, or, if accepted, the amount of qualifying earnings may be reduced or the applicable tax rate on qualifying earnings may be higher than the current rate at that time. In addition, the tax law may change resulting in a reduction or elimination of the tax benefit. Until our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, we do not expect to make tax payments on our U.S. income, except for federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our foreign income. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income at higher rates than the U.S. business over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international businesses generate an increasing share of our pre-tax income. The Internal Revenue Service initiated an audit of our 2009 and 2010 federal income tax returns for the first time in the third quarter of 2011. The audit was concluded in June 2012 with no impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows (see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the audit). Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2012 2011 Change Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests $ 4,471 2,760 62.0 % The net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011 increased due mainly to improved year-over-year operating performance for the rentalcars.com business, partially offset by a reduction in redeemable noncontrolling interests from 19.0% in April 2011 to 12.7% in April 2012. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 Operating and Statistical Metrics Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our international and domestic operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2011 2010 Change International $ 16,909 $ 9,480 78.4 % Domestic 4,748 4,166 14.0 % Total $ 21,658 $ 13,646 58.7 % Gross bookings increased by 58.7% for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, principally due to 52.6% growth in hotel room night reservation. The 78.4% increase in international gross bookings (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 70%) was attributable to growth in international hotel room night reservations for our Booking.com and Agoda businesses, as well as higher ADRs charged for hotel stays and growth in international car reservations for our rentalcars.com business, which was acquired in May 2010. Domestic gross bookings increased by 14.0% for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to growth in gross bookings from our price-disclosed airline ticket and hotel room night reservation services and our Name Your Own Price hotel room night 51 and airline ticket reservation services. Higher ADRs drove growth in gross bookings related to our Name Your Own Price hotel business despite a modest year-over-year decline in Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations for the year ended December 31, 2011. Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2011 2010 Change Agency $ 17,610 $ 10,781 63.3 % Merchant 4,048 2,864 41.3 % Total $ 21,658 $ 13,646 58.7 % Agency gross bookings increased 63.3% for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, due to growth in the sale of Booking.com hotel room night reservations. Our U.S. priceline.com business experienced growth in reservations of agency price-disclosed hotel room nights, airline tickets and rental car days. Merchant gross bookings increased 41.3% for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, due to an increase in gross bookings from our Agoda hotel room night reservation service, our rentalcars.com rental car reservation service, our priceline.com merchant price-disclosed hotel room night reservation service and our Name Your Own Price hotel room night, airline ticket and rental car reservation services. Higher ADRs drove growth in gross bookings related to our Name Your Own Price hotel business despite a modest year-over-year decline in Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations for the year ended December 31, 2011. Year Ended Hotel Room Nights Rental Car Days Airline Tickets December 31, 2011 141.6 million 23.8 million 6.2 million December 31, 2010 92.8 million 16.3 million 5.9 million Hotel room night reservations sold increased by 52.6% for the year ended December 31, 2011, over the same period in 2010, principally due to an increase in the sale of Booking.com, Agoda and priceline.com price-disclosed hotel room night reservations, partially offset by a modest decline in Name Your Own Price hotel room night reservations. Booking.com, our most significant brand, currently includes over 185,000 hotels and accommodations on its website as compared to about 120,000 hotels and accommodations last year (updated hotel counts are available on the Booking.com website). Booking.com has added hotels over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America. An increasing amount of our business from a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate. Our U.S. priceline.com price-disclosed hotel room night reservations benefited from the integration of U.S. hotels from the Booking.com extranet on the priceline.com website. Rental car days sold increased by 45.6% for the year ended December 31, 2011, over the same period in 2010, primarily due to the inclusion of rental car day reservations from rentalcars.com, which we acquired in May 2010, as well as an increase in Name Your Own Price rental car reservations. Airline tickets sold increased by 5.7% for the year ended December 31, 2011, over the same period in 2010, due to an increase in both price-disclosed and Name Your Own Price airline ticket reservations. 52 Revenues Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Agency Revenues $ 2,339,253 $ 1,380,603 69.4 % Merchant Revenues 2,004,432 1,691,640 18.5 % Other Revenues 11,925 12,662 (5.8 )% Total Revenues $ 4,355,610 $ 3,084,905 41.2 % Agency Revenues Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased 69.4% compared to the same period in 2010, primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com. Our U.S. agency hotel room night reservations benefited from the integration of U.S. hotels from the Booking.com extranet on the priceline.com website. Merchant Revenues Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased 18.5% compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to an increase in merchant revenues from our Agoda price-disclosed hotel room night reservation service, our rentalcars.com rental car reservation service, our Name Your Own Price airline ticket and hotel room night reservation services and our priceline.com price-disclosed hotel room night reservation service. Other Revenues Other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2011 consisted primarily of advertising. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased 5.8% compared to the same period in 2010. Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Cost of Revenues $ 1,275,730 $ 1,175,934 8.5 % % of Merchant Revenues 63.6 % 69.5 % Cost of Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2011, cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost of Name Your Own Price hotel room reservations from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of Name Your Own Price rental cars from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes; and (3) the cost of Name Your Own Price airline tickets, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by 8.5% , compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to the increase in Name Your Own Price revenues discussed above. Merchant price-disclosed hotel room and car rental reservations are recorded in merchant revenues net of the amounts paid to suppliers and therefore, there is no associated cost of revenues for merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues. Cost of revenues as a percentage of their associated merchant revenues decreased primarily due to the increase in merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues and the addition of rentalcars.com merchant revenue, all of which are recorded on a "net" basis. Agency revenues are recorded at their net amount, which are amounts received less amounts paid to suppliers, if any, and therefore, there are no costs of agency revenues. 53 Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Gross Profit $ 3,079,880 $ 1,908,971 61.3 % Gross Margin 70.7 % 61.9 % Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by 61.3% compared to the same period in 2010, primarily as a result of increased revenue discussed above. Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010 because Name Your Own Price revenues, which are recorded "gross" with a corresponding cost of revenue, represented a smaller percentage of total revenues compared to retail, price-disclosed revenues which are primarily recorded "net" with no corresponding cost of revenues. Because Name Your Own Price transactions are reported "gross" and retail transactions are primarily recorded on a "net" basis, we believe that gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business. Our international operations accounted for approximately $2.6 billion of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2011, which compares to approximately $1.4 billion for the same period in 2010. Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 70% in the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010. Operating Expenses Advertising Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Online Advertising $ 919,214 $ 552,140 66.5 % % of Total Gross Profit 29.8 % 28.9 % Offline Advertising $ 35,470 $ 35,714 (0.7 )% % of Total Gross Profit 1.2 % 1.9 % Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; (4) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (5) e-mail campaigns. For the year ended December 31, 2011, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2010, primarily to support increased hotel room night reservations for Booking.com and Agoda, increased rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and increased hotel room night reservations for priceline.com. Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit increased for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010. The increase is driven primarily by brand mix rather than a change in the fundamental efficiency of our advertising by brand. Our international brands grew faster than our priceline.com U.S. brands, and spent a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising. Furthermore, the priceline.com brand obtained an increased share of its traffic through online advertising. We recognize advertising expense as incurred at the time of booking, but recognize the gross profit for price-disclosed hotel room and rental car reservations when the travel is completed. Offline advertising expenses are related to our domestic television, print and radio advertising for priceline.com. For the year ended December 31, 2011, offline advertising was flat compared to the same period in 2010. We recognize expense for production costs of advertising the first time the advertising takes place. 54 Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Sales and Marketing $ 162,690 $ 116,303 39.9 % % of Total Gross Profit 5.3 % 6.1 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables. For the year ended December 31, 2011, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2010, primarily due to increased gross booking volumes as well as expenses related to increased content translations. Our U.S. merchant business benefited from the impact of reduced credit card processing fees resulting from Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Financial Reform and Consumer Protection Act (which amendment caps the interchange fee for debit card transactions and went into effect on October 1, 2011), partially offset by the impact of higher costs resulting from increases in foreign currency transactions and increased cancellation rates from our Agoda business. Costs associated with our U.S. priceline.com business comprise a large component of sales and marketing expenses. Our U.S. priceline.com business grew more slowly than our total gross profit, which benefited from the high growth in our international agency business, and as a result, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2011 declined compared to the same period in 2010. Personnel Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Personnel $ 352,295 $ 270,071 30.4 % % of Total Gross Profit 11.4 % 14.1 % Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses, payroll taxes, employee health benefits and stock-based compensation. For the year ended December 31, 2011, personnel expenses increased over the same period in 2010, due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our international businesses. Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $65.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $68.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 included charges amounting to $10.3 million and $13.4 million , respectively, representing the cumulative impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period for certain outstanding unvested performance share units. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change General and Administrative $ 123,652 $ 81,185 52.3 % % of Total Gross Profit 4.0 % 4.3 % General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) personnel related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses; (2) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses; and (3) occupancy expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2011, over the same period in 2010, due to higher recruiting, training and travel expenses related to increased headcount at Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com. Additionally, we significantly increased our office capacity worldwide to support continued growth in our international 55 operations. The year ended December 31, 2010 included a favorable expense adjustment of approximately $2.7 million in connection with the resolution of certain franchise and sales and use tax issues related to our corporate headquarters location, and a charge of $1.7 million related to a court ruling in South Carolina. Information Technology Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Information Technology $ 33,813 $ 20,998 61.0 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.1 % 1.1 % Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) outsourced data center costs relating to our U.S. and international data centers; (2) system maintenance and software license fees; (3) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our Internet sites; and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the increase in information technology expenses compared to the same period in 2010 was due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Depreciation and Amortization $ 53,824 $ 45,763 17.6 % % of Total Gross Profit 1.7 % 2.4 % Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of: (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) amortization of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office equipment and furniture and fixtures. For the year ended December 31, 2011, depreciation expense increased from the same period in 2010 due principally to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com brand. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2011, amortization expense increased from the same period in 2010 due to acquisition-related amortization in connection with our acquisition of rentalcars.com in May 2010. Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Interest Income $ 8,119 $ 3,857 110.5 % Interest Expense (31,721 ) (29,944 ) 5.9 % Foreign Currency Transactions and Other (7,526 ) (14,427 ) (47.8 )% Total $ (31,128 ) $ (40,514 ) (23.2 )% For the year ended December 31, 2011, interest income on cash and marketable securities increased over the same period in 2010, primarily due to an increase in the average balance invested. Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to an increase in the average outstanding debt resulting from the March 2010 issuance of $575.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes, and fees on the undrawn $1 billion revolving credit facility entered into in October 2011. Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operations into U.S. dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $4.0 million for the year 56 ended December 31, 2011 compared to foreign exchange gains of $2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other." Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in losses of $11.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to losses of $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other." In addition, losses of $11.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 resulted from convertible debt conversions during 2010, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other." During the fourth quarter of 2011, we began classifying certain foreign currency processing fees, amounting to $2.2 million, as an offset to revenue earned from the third party that processes the payments for merchant hotel transactions. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Income Tax Expense $ 308,663 $ 218,141 41.5 % Our effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were 22.6% and 29.2% , respectively. Our effective tax rate differs from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% principally due to lower foreign tax rates, the Innovation Box Tax benefit, and the resolution of an uncertain tax position during the second quarter of 2011. Following the conclusion of an audit, we reversed a reserve of approximately $12.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2011 for unrecognized tax benefits attributable to tax positions taken in 2010. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 is lower compared to 2010 primarily due to a higher percentage of foreign income, which is taxed at lower rates, the Innovation Box Tax benefit, and the reversal of the reserve for unrecognized tax benefits referred to above. The Innovation Box Tax did not have a material impact on our 2010 results. The impact of the Innovation Box Tax for 2011 reduced our consolidated effective income tax rate by approximately four percentage points. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Year Ended December 31, ($000) 2011 2010 Change Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests $ 2,760 $ 601 359.2 % The net income attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interest for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 increased primarily due to the improved year-over-year operating performance for rentalcars.com. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2012, we had $5.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Approximately $3.1 billion of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held by our international subsidiaries and are denominated primarily in Euros and, to a lesser extent, in British Pound Sterling. We currently intend to permanently reinvest this cash in our foreign operations. We could not repatriate this cash to the United States without utilizing our net operating loss carryforwards and potentially incurring additional tax payments in the United States. Cash equivalents and short-term investments are primarily comprised of foreign and U.S. government securities and bank deposits. In October 2011, we entered into a $1 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.00% to 1.50%; or 57 (ii) the greatest of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association's prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50%. Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.10% to 0.25%. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $100.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. Dollars, Euros, British Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2012, there were no borrowings under the facility, and approximately $1.9 million of letters of credit were issued under the facility. As of December 31, 2012, we had remaining authorizations from our Board of Directors to repurchase $459.2 million of our common stock. We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital, and other factors. Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from our customers and then we pay most of our suppliers at a subsequent date. We therefore tend to experience significant swings in deferred merchant bookings and supplier payables depending on the absolute level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2012, was $ 1.8 billion , resulting from net income of $1.4 billion , a favorable impact of non-cash items not affecting cash flows of $ 217.9 million and net favorable changes in working capital of $ 143.8 million . The changes in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2012, were primarily related to a $ 256.0 million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, partially offset by a $ 105.3 million increase in accounts receivable. The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were primarily associated with deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, and amortization of debt discount. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011, was $1.3 billion, resulting from net income of $1.1 billion and net favorable changes in working capital of $84.8 million, and a favorable impact of $197.9 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows. For the year ended December 31, 2011, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $209.5 million, partially offset by a $125.8 million increase in accounts receivable. The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volumes. Non-cash items were principally associated with deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, and amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes. Net cash used in investing activities was $ 1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2012. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 were affected by net purchases of investments of $ 1.6 billion , payments of $ 33.9 million for acquisitions, and a change in restricted cash of $ 2.8 million , partially offset by net cash proceeds of $ 82.1 million for the settlement of foreign currency contracts. Net cash used in investing activities was $904.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 were affected by payments of $68.2 million for acquisitions, principally related to the contingent consideration associated with the 2007 acquisition of Agoda.com, $11.0 million net payments to settle derivative contracts, net purchases of investments of $775.8 million, and a change in restricted cash of $2.9 million. Cash invested in purchase of property and equipment was $ 55.2 million and $46.8 million in the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The increase in 2012 was to support the growth of our business, including additional data center capacity and capital expenditures for new offices opened during the year, and we expect to see additional future increases to support the growth of our business. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $ 668.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 was primarily related to proceeds from the issuance of convertible senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion, $ 2.7 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options, and $ 5.2 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $ 257.0 million , $61.1 million spent to purchase a portion of the shares underlying noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com, and $20.9 million of debt issuance costs. Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $151.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily related to treasury stock purchases of $163.2 million, approximately $13.0 million spent to purchase a portion of the shares underlying redeemable noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com, and $0.2 million of principal paid upon the conversion of senior notes, partially offset by $4.3 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and $21.0 million of excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. 58 In November 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire KAYAK Software Corporation, a leading travel meta-search service, in a stock and cash transaction. Under the terms of the agreement, the transaction values KAYAK at $1.8 billion ($1.65 billion net of cash acquired) or $40 per share of KAYAK common stock, with $500 million to be paid in cash, which is expected to be made from cash on hand in the United States, and $1.3 billion to be paid in shares of our common stock and assumed stock options (subject to a volume-weighted average trading price calculation and a collar on the value of our common stock). The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2013, pending approval from relevant regulatory authorities and KAYAK shareholders. Contingencies A number of jurisdictions in the United States have initiated lawsuits against online travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy and other related taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax and general excise tax). In addition, a number of U.S. states, counties, and municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy and other related taxes. To date, the majority of taxing jurisdictions in which we facilitate the making of hotel room reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on our U.S. merchant hotel business. With respect to jurisdictions that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect taxes from us only on a prospective basis. See Item 3 - Legal Proceedings and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and proceedings, and Item 1A Risk Factors - " Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. ". We are vigorously defending against these claims and proceedings. However, litigation is subject to uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these pending or future cases and proceedings. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of these actions or proceedings could result in substantial liabilities for past and/or future bookings, including, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in any given operating period. Also, there have been, and will continue to be, ongoing costs associated with defending our position in pending and any future cases or proceedings. To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that we have a tax collection responsibility, or we determine that we have such a responsibility, with respect to future transactions, we may collect any such additional tax obligation from our customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel reservations to our customers and, consequently, could make our hotel reservation services less competitive (i.e., versus the websites of other online travel companies or hotel company websites) and reduce hotel reservation transactions; alternatively, we could choose to reduce the compensation for our services on merchant hotel transactions. Either action could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As a result of this litigation and other attempts by jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual which amounted to approximately $56 million and $33 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The accrual is based on our estimate of the probable cost of resolving these issues. The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded. We believe that even if we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash, it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. 59 The following table represents our material contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2012 (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements): Payments due by Period (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More than 5 Years Operating lease obligations $ 219,029 $ 31,487 $ 62,321 $ 47,121 $ 78,100 Convertible debt (1) 1,639,283 597,200 20,000 20,000 1,002,083 Revolving credit facility (2) 7,336 2,255 3,594 1,487 Redeemable noncontrolling interests 160,287 160,287 Total (3) $ 2,025,935 $ 791,229 $ 85,915 $ 68,608 $ 1,080,183 _____________________________ (1) Convertible debt represents the aggregate principal amount of the Notes and interest of $64 million. Convertible debt does not reflect the market value in excess of the outstanding principal amount because we can settle the conversion premium amount in cash or shares of common stock at our option. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) Represents fees on uncommitted funds and outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2012. (3) We reported "Other long-term liabilities" of $69 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2012, of which approximately $56 million related to our accrual for potential resolution of issues related to hotel occupancy and other related taxes (refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and approximately $7 million related to unrecognized tax benefits (refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). A variety of factors could affect the timing of payments for these liabilities. We believe that these matters will likely not be resolved in the next twelve months and accordingly we have classified the estimated liability as "non-current" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. We have excluded "Other long-term liabilities" in the amount of $69 million from the contractual obligations table because we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of such payments. Since the contingent conversion threshold for the 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 was exceeded as of December 31, 2012, these notes are convertible at the option of the holders. If the holders elect to convert, we will be required to pay the aggregate principal amount in cash and we will deliver cash or shares of common stock, at our option, for the conversion value in excess of the aggregate principal amount. We would likely fund our conversion obligations with cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, if during that period or thereafter, we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plan, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, revenue growth or sustained profitability may not be realized, and future borrowings or equity sales may not be available in amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies or repay our indebtedness. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. As of December 31, 2012, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.