Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere herein and in our consolidated financial statements. Please note that certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Revision of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these changes. Unless otherwise indicated, dollar amounts above $1000 in this Annual Report have been rounded to the nearest thousand, million or billion, as applicable. In addition to our consolidated financial statements, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. See above Forward-Looking Statements. Overview The Company is a manufacturer of building systems and is in the process of aligning our production levels to match the demand for our products. In addition to our first Nevada manufacturing facility (Factory 1), which we took possession of in May 2021, we expanded our production capacity by signing leases for additional Nevada facilities (Factory 2) in June 2022 and (Factory 3) in May 2023, respectively. While our growth has mainly been funded by our capital raising activities as described below in Liquidity, we anticipate our increased manufacturing capacity will allow us to build Boxes more efficiently, and, in doing so generate additional revenue and profit in the future. We continue to improve our workforce, including the expansion of our business development and sales teams to focus and better support the outreach to B2B, B2C, and B2G sales channels, respectively. To date through March 31, 2025, we have manufactured 701 Casitas and have completed deliveries of 278 Casitas in 6 states, including Arizona, Nevada, California, Oklahoma, Utah, and Hawaii. The majority of US states have a statewide modular program which requires approval of a specific product prior to the product being able to be sold and installed within the state. The requirements to obtain these approvals vary across each state, and the approval process has resulted in delays in the Companys ability to deliver the product across the country, which has impacted the timing and amount of the Companys revenues. The Company has recently obtained state modular approvals under state-wide modular housing programs in Arizona, New Mexico, California and Nevada. The approvals were obtained as follows: During December 2023, we completed the required third-party inspection for the State of Arizona and received a report recommending Factory and Casita certification which was approved by the State. During May 2024, we received approval to sell Casitas as Modular homes in California in certain climate zones. During July 2024, we received approval to sell Casitas under the Statewide Modular Program in New Mexico. During January 2025, we received approval to sell Casitas in Nevada under the Residential building code During January 2025, we received approval to sell Casitas under the Statewide Modular Program in all climate zones in California. New sales within recently approved states and jurisdictions may continue to face delays due to the time needed for site preparation, arranging funding for the project the purchaser, and other preparatory steps that are required to arrange delivery and installation of the units. 24 BOXABL also has been focused on selling its products in multiple jurisdictions that do not have a statewide modular housing program. In these areas, the ultimate approval comes down to the local jurisdiction and is determined on a site-by-site basis. This pertains to the following areas: Oklahoma Utah Wyoming Kansas West Virginia Hawaii Vermont Alaska Oregon Connecticut Delaware Tribal Lands BOXABL is generally also able to sell its Casita, by adding a permanent chassis, as a Park Model RV under ANSI A119.5 in the majority of US states. The Company retained multiple third-party inspection agencies to assist in achieving certification in multiples states with modular housing legislation simultaneously. As of December 31, 2024, the Company has delivered 270 units to approved states, states that do not have modular housing legislation or under the Park Model RV classification. In 2025, through March 31, 2025, we delivered an additional 8 Casitas in 2 states. The Company maintains short-term liquidity of $21.7 million as of December 31, 2024, including $5.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and $15.9 million as short-term investments in U.S. Treasuries. Considering the Companys burn rate, the Companys liquidity is sufficient to fund approximately 7 months of operations in case of no revenues. Trend Information As of March 31, 2025, the Company has delivered 278 Casitas to 10 customers and has remaining customer deposits of $3.6 million from 8,658 potential customers ranging from $100 to $5,000. The Company currently requires a $500 non-refundable order fee for Casitas to connect that Customer to a BOXABL Preferred Dealer/Installer and survey the related location where the product is intended to be installed. The Company also started accepting $200 non-refundable pre-order fees in January 2025 to be added to the priority list for the newly launched Baby Box. The Company has been developing an expanded product line, which includes a variety of sizes and configurations that extend beyond our existing Casita model. The growing interest expressed by various external stakeholders including property developers and homebuilders have prompted us to explore additional sales channels. In January 2025, we announced the launch of prototypes of our Next Generation Products. This includes the Baby Box, a 120 sq ft compact living space, towable trailer, built to RV Standard NFPA 1192 and our Phase 2 Modular Building System, comprising Boxes (modules) of varying dimensions that stack and/or connect allowing a system where homebuilder customers are able to customize the Boxes to build different building types and floorplans. We plan on beginning production of this product line manually with low capital investment to start. For Phase 2 modular, we have been prototyping the production over the past few months and built 2 model homes in our Factory. This product will eventually need a new production line. We have developed various manufacturing concepts to manufacture this product in the future. We expect the design & development changes to be completed within 2025 and will focus design and manufacturing efforts based on the orders from developers for specific floorplans/models within the product offering. Manufacturing changes will be completed in parallel to the designs for initial manufacturing launch within the first half of 2026, subject to State approvals. For Phase 2 Baby Box, we plan to start production of Baby Boxes in the fourth quarter of 2025. In 2025, and following feedback from our customer base, we also introduced a 2-box configuration set up of our Casita including a 1 or 2 bedroom (for a total of 722 sq. ft.) set up for the California ADU market. This new floor plan can be produced with our existing production line. 25 Tariffs and Inflation The U.S. government recently implemented new tariff measures affecting a broad range of imported materials. We have evaluated the potential impact of these actions on our operations and supply chain and do not expect them to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations in the near term. Our operations are currently supported by a substantial inventory of completed units manufactured prior to the effective dates of the tariff adjustments, which reduces our near-term exposure to increased costs associated with imported materials. Additionally, as we transition into the next phase of our product development, including Phase 2, our sourcing strategy reflects a greater emphasis on domestic procurement. This shift is expected to further mitigate exposure to international trade disruptions and tariff-related cost volatility. We believe that we are well positioned to react to potential increased costs from our suppliers in the future due to our cost-effective building components and manufacturing process in the factory setting compared to the cost of traditional construction of stick-built homes in the field, which would face similar cost increases. As a result, the Company believes that it would be able to pass on those costs to end customers while keeping the BOXABL solution competitive. However, recent proposals to change the international trade framework have resulted in substantial regulatory uncertainty regarding international trade and trade policy, both in the United States and abroad. The U.S. government has also raised the possibility of other initiatives that may affect our business, including renegotiation of trade agreements with other countries and the introduction of new or increased import duties or tariffs with respect to products from a number of different countries. In light of this uncertainty and the unknown impact on the broader US and global economy in the future, we do not have clarity at this point over the potential medium to long term impacts our business may face. The availability of certain goods could be affected if foreign suppliers choose to limit their exposure to U.S. markets in response to unfavorable trade policies, which could negatively impact the ability of our suppliers to deliver materials or manufacturing equipment to us and, therefore, delay or impede our deliveries. Furthermore, rising inflation, slower economic growth and increases in unemployment that may result from global trade disruptions could further deflate consumer demand, which may impact the housing market more broadly, reducing demand for our products. Results of Operations Revenues Our FYE 2024 gross revenues were $3.4 million compared to FYE 2023 gross revenues of $344,000. Revenue in 2023 was negatively impacted by delays in the Companys ability to obtain applicable permits and approvals. The BOXABL Casita finally received modular housing approval in Arizona during December 2023 followed by New Mexico and California in 2024, and Nevada in 2025. Revenue in 2024 was generated by sales of BOXABL Casitas, including the sale of 51 Casitas to eight customers, with significant customers including Punnett Construction (44%); Arizona Treasures LLC (10%), and American Campground LLC (19%). This is in comparison to 2 Casitas delivered in 2023. We are continuing to execute our sales strategy, which includes closing deals from our sales pipeline/waitlist and generating interest in our next generation of products. On July 17, 2024, the Company launched the BOXABL Directory which is a growing network of modular home Preferred Dealers/Installers across the States where the Company has approval to sell its Casita. Since most states require various dealer and installer licenses in order to sell and install modular homes, BOXABL utilizes a network of Preferred BOXABL Dealers/Installers to handle these transactions with its end customers. In addition to the network of Dealers/Installers, the Company has also launched an online dealer portal which allows the approved and trained Dealers/Installers to access a list of potential customers that have ordered a Casita in their area, are ready to proceed with their project, and need sitework and installation services. The launch of the Companys dealer portal, combined with the expansion of our Preferred Dealer/Installer network, provides a platform for the Company to expand its sales and installation operations throughout the States where our product can be sold. Since launching the BOXABL Directory, the Company has trained and onboarded 80 Dealers/Installers and continues to expand its network. As the Companys product obtains additional approvals throughout the country, the Company expects to utilize these systems to execute additional sales in these territories, with faster ramp up time. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold were $15.0 million and $10.6 million for FYE 2024 and 2023, respectively. Cost of goods sold consists primarily of the cost of products used in the production of the Companys finished products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, the related labor, and indirect overhead costs associated with that production. During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, manufacturing overhead was $11.6 million and $10.5 million, respectively. This consisted primarily of the allocation of indirect labor, rent and lease expense, and depreciation expense. Other allocations to manufacturing overhead included indirect supplies, scrapped material, and maintenance costs. These overhead costs are relatively fixed and do not increase proportionally with the increase in production or sales. Cost of goods sold for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, consist of the following: December 31, (In Thousands) 2024 2023 Direct material/shipping $ 1,925 $ 75 Direct labor 1,457 30 Manufacturing overhead 11,585 10,451 Cost of goods sold $ 14,966 $ 10,556 26 Our of costs of goods sold compared to revenues for each of 2024 and 2023 were significantly elevated due to our reduced production levels as we faced delays on revenues mainly from permitting and regulatory issues, customer readiness and financing. As a result, the factory overhead, including the costs of leasing and operating our factories and indirect labor costs, was allocated to the inventory for total units produced during the year. While we estimate that we could produce and deliver 1,200 Casitas per year at full factory capacity, we only produced 140 Casitas in 2024 and 260 Casitas in 2023, respectively, which bore the full manufacturing overhead costs in each year. In the first half of 2023, our costs of goods sold included as part of manufacturing overhead a 1% royalty paid to Build IP, a company controlled by our founder and CEO, Paolo Tiramani, under the terms of our exclusive license agreement to utilize the patented technology necessary to produce and deliver our Boxes. In June 2023, the Company acquired Build IP and its parent, 500 Group, both of which were owned by the Companys CEO, for consideration of $30.0 million paid in Non-Voting Series A-2 Preferred Stock. As a result of this transaction, all royalty payments were ceased immediately. For details, see Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, consisted of the following: December 31, (In Thousands) 2024 2023 General and administrative $ 12,213 $ 14,855 Sales and marketing 9,895 8,401 Research and development 6,592 8,292 Impairment loss 12,427 992 Total Operating expenses $ 41,127 $ 32,540 The increase in total operating expenses in 2024 is primarily attributable to an impairment loss on customized equipment. We also incurred higher sales and marketing expenses in 2024, offset by the decrease in research and development and general and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses consist of compensation and benefits for various positions including company administration, rents, shop supplies, and utilities. The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily related to lower headcount due to restructuring of the workforce and aligning the production levels with sales and the Companys cost control initiatives. As we expand the Companys production capacity, we expect these expenses to decrease on a per unit basis. Advertising and marketing expenses generally consist of advertising and promotions. In 2024, the Company undertook significant new advertising campaigns to refine the marketing of the Companys products focused on generating sales activity, as well as advertising directly to investors. Research and development activity is essential to testing and developing BOXABL products. Our research and development costs were elevated in 2023 as the Company incurred significant costs to obtain permits and approvals. These costs included test raw material used in production and researching industry standards and regulations. Research and development costs declined in 2024, as the Company succeeded in obtaining state approvals under modular housing programs in several states. Following BOXABL obtaining California statewide approval for the Casita in all climate zones in January 2025, we expect to focus future research and development efforts on our Phase 2 Modular Building System and the Baby Box. In 2024, the Company recorded an impairment loss of deposits on equipment and fixed assets totaling $12.4 million related to assets that were procured for the anticipated ramp up of our previously planned generation 2.0 Casita. Prompted by a key supplier of equipment failing to fulfill their obligation, the Company determined that it no longer plans to continue with production of that configuration of Casita and recognized an impairment loss for this customized equipment. Stock-based Compensation Expense The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense based on fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the associated vesting periods. Vesting of RSU awards is generally subject to a 3-year service period and, as of October 18, 2024, also subject to a performance condition. Accordingly, stock-based compensation is recognized upon satisfaction of the service and performance condition. In the case of options, the Company uses the Black-Scholes pricing model to estimate the fair value of options on the date of grant that are then expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur in the year of forfeiture and share-based compensation expense is adjusted accordingly. 27 For the year ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company recognized $7.2 million and $8.7 million in stock-based compensation, respectively. The decrease is attributable to employee forfeitures upon termination in 2024, offset by the vesting of Stock options and RSUs granted under the Companys Amended 2021 stock incentive plan. See Note 12. Stockholders Equity Stock-based Compensation for further discussion. Total Other Income and Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2024, our total other income was $1.8 million as compared to $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, primarily due to lower balances of interest-bearing deposits. Liquidity and Capital Resources Going Concern The Companys consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the assumption that the Company will be able to continue as a going concern. The going concern assumption contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. However, substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern is probable. Primarily due to slower sales associated with delays in obtaining US statewide modular approvals and customer readiness, the Company reported a net loss of $51.0 million and an operating cash outflow of $38.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. At December 31, 2024, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $718.4 million. Absent any other action, the Company will require additional liquidity to continue its operations over the next 12 months. The continuing viability of the Company and its ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on the Company being successful in its continued efforts in growing its revenue and/or accessing additional sources of capital. Managements plan to address this need includes (a) continued exercise of tight controls to conserve cash, (b) accelerating product sales, and (c) raising funds through equity financing. The Company anticipates current capital on hand, product revenue, and expected future funding will be sufficient to fund the Companys operations in excess of twelve months. The Company is currently selling shares of its preferred stock through Regulation A and Regulation D offerings in the United States and Canada. Management believes that the actions presently being taken by the Company will provide sufficient liquidity for the Company to continue to execute its business plan over the next year. However, there can be no assurances that managements plans will be achieved. Sources of Liquidity To date, our operations have been financed by our exempt offerings of securities made in reliance on Regulation A, Regulation CF and both Rule 506(c) and Rule 506(b) of Regulation D in the United States and exempt offering regulations in Canada. For details regarding our securities offerings, see below Sales of Securities. At December 31, 2024, our principal source of liquidity was our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, which we achieved through our offerings of securities as discussed above. As of December 31, 2024, the Company held $5.8 million in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and $15.9 million in investments in short-term treasury notes, compared to $18.6 million in cash and cash equivalents, and $27.7 million held in short-term treasury notes as of December 31, 2023. Based on the Companys current burn rate of $1.6 million per month, we anticipate that the current liquidity together with cash generated from sales of our products as well as sales of additional securities will be sufficient to meet our immediate cash needs for more than 12 months. Historical Cash Flows Year Ended December 31 (In Thousands) 2024 2023 Net Cash Used in Operating Activities $ (38,400 ) $ (35,622 ) Net Cash Provided by Investing Activities $ 11,190 $ 33,426 Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities $ 14,508 $ 15,503 Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities included net loss adjusted for several non-cash items such as depreciation & amortization, stock-based compensation, impairment loss and other non-cash expenses, in addition to the change in working capital as inventory balances increased. Investing Activities Primary investing activities included purchase of property, equipment, leasehold improvement, payment of security deposit for our factory and other facility, and acquisition and sales of short-term and long-term investments. The increase in cash flows provided by investing activities was due to a sales of investments (U.S. Treasuries) during 2023 and 2024. Financing Activities Primary sources of our financing activities included net proceeds from issuance and sales of A-2 and A-3 Preferred Stock. This also includes proceeds received in advance of security issuance, which is included within the Companys subscription liability. 28 Inventory Our physical assets increased significantly with inventory of $24.3 million as of December 31, 2024, which is primarily finished goods including 397 Casitas, compared to $18.7 million as of December 31, 2023, which was also primarily finished goods including 313 Casitas. As our sales cycle for Casitas took longer due to delays in permitting and site work and customers readiness, the amount of inventory consisting of finished goods and raw material increased compared to the prior year. Subsequent to December 31, 2024 and through April 14, 2025, we delivered an additional 8 Casitas. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, Plant and Equipment decreased to $8.9 million as of December 31, 2024 from $10.8 million at December 31, 2023 primarily resulting from impairment of machinery and equipment and Construction in-progress offset by capital improvements and IT equipment at our manufacturing facility, less depreciation. In addition to installed capital equipment, the deposits related to production equipment decreased to $93,000 as of December 31, 2024, compared to $9.8 million as of December 31, 2023 as result of the impairment of deposits on equipment and fixed assets discussed under Results of Operations Operating Expenses above. Sales of Securities During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company conducted offerings under Regulation A, Regulation Crowdfunding, Regulation D, and/or Canadian fundraising. The progress of these offerings during those periods was as follows: (In Thousands) Year Ended December 31, 2024 Year Ended December 31, 2023 Offering Shares Sold Gross Proceeds Shares Sold Gross Proceeds Regulation D (Series A-2) - $ - 11,120 $ 8,451 Regulation A (Series A, A-1 and A-2) - - Regulation Crowdfunding (Series A-2) 4,079 3,263 Regulation A (Series A-3)* 14,431 11,145 Regulation D (Series A-3)* 6,242 3,769 8,343 4,184 Canada (Series A-2)* 207 166 388 310 Total 20,880 $ 15,080 23,930 $ 16,208 * These offering are ongoing. In addition, on June 15, 2023, the Company engaged in a statutory merger with an affiliated corporation, 500 Group, in which the Company exchanged 37,500,000 shares of Non-Voting Series A-2 Preferred Stock in exchange for 500 Groups 100 outstanding shares of Common Stock in reliance on Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. For details, see Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence. Material Commitments and Obligations Expense Commitments As of December 31, 2024, we reported current lease liabilities of $3.5 million compared to $3.2 million as of December 31, 2023. Our long-term lease liability decreased to $7.2 million as of December 31, 2024, from $10.7 million as of December 31, 2023, due to the passage of time. 29 Customer Deposits Our main non-lease liability is the Companys obligation to customers who have placed deposits on the purchase of our products. As of December 31, 2024, the Company held customer deposits in the amount of $3.6 million, which represented a decrease from $4.0 million as of December 31, 2023. This decrease is due to refunds and/or application of customer deposits to customer orders that were fulfilled during 2024. Deferred Revenue As of December 31, 2024, our balance sheet carried $2.3 million of deferred revenue related primarily to advanced deposits on unfulfilled purchase orders, including $1.5 million to Pronghorn Services LLC and $0.3 million to purchase orders from Punnet Construction in Oklahoma. This compares to $2.7 million of deferred revenue as of December 31, 2023. Deferred revenue generally occurs when the Company receives payments from the customer in advance of the Company shipping units to that customer. Pursuant to ASC 606, Revenue Recognition, the Company records deferred revenue for paid, unfulfilled performance obligations which are represented by the Casitas or installer training sessions that had not yet been delivered as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2024 or December 31, 2023. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Inventory Valuation Inventories consist of raw materials, in-bound freight and duties, work in progress, and finished goods. Inventories available for sale are valued at the lower of cost or net realized value. Cost is determined using the weighted average method. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, bulk sales, and the expected recoverable values for each disposition category. On a periodic basis, the Company performs a physical count of its inventory and records an inventory valuation allowance for inventory that has become obsolete or inventory that has a cost basis in excess of the expected net realizable value. Damaged and obsolete inventory are valued based on specific identification and managements estimate of net realizable value, including consideration of whether the items are usable in current or future production. Any difference between cost and estimated realizable value is recognized as an expense. 30 Intangible Assets The Company has intangible assets that are accounted for at historical cost and amortized over the respective estimated lives on a straight-line basis and reviewed for impairment whenever events or other changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Companys intangible assets include: intellectual property associated with patents and trademarks that are amortized over their estimated useful life of 14 years, or the stated expiration date, whichever is more determinable. The Company also has implementation costs for cloud computing and hosting arrangements for software-as-a-service arrangements that are recorded as an intangible asset on the balance sheet, and subsequently amortized over their economic or legal life, whichever is shorter. The Company applies the following useful lives to its intangible assets: Intellectual property 14 years Software 1-3 years Domain 5 years The Company has also incurred costs to develop software that are being developed for sale and/or external-use. These software development costs are recognized in Research & Development on the Companys Statement of Comprehensive Loss, as these costs do not qualify for capitalization until the software has reached the point of technological feasibility, which is determined after the planning, designing, coding, and testing phases have been completed. Stock-Based Compensation The Company applies ASC 718, Stock-Based Compensation for all stock-based awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, that are measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the associated vesting periods. The fair value of stock options is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of restricted stock awards is estimated on the date of the grant based on the fair value of the Companys underlying common stock. The Company recognizes compensation expense for stock options on a straight-line basis over the associated service or vesting periods. Effective October 18, 2024, restricted stock awards became subject to a performance condition, which defers vesting of restricted stock awards until a monetization event. Accordingly, the Company shall not recognize stock-based compensation from restricted stock awards until a monetization event becomes probable. Determining the grant date fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires management to make assumptions and judgments. These estimates involve inherent uncertainties and, if different assumptions had been used, stock-based compensation expense could have been materially different from the amounts recorded. Planned Timeline With the success of our initial fundraising through our offerings under Regulation A, Regulation D, and Regulation CF, we have continued to advance our planned timeline. As of March 31, 2025, we see our next 12-month timeline as follows: Month 1-6: Continue delivery of Casita orders to California, Arizona, New Mexico and Nevada and to states that do not have modular housing legislation, or using Park Model RV configuration. Release to market Casita 2 boxes set up with one- or two-bedroom floorplans and get it approved in California. Continue to expand our dealer & installer network to execute the B2C Casita sales. Establish our RV Dealer in Nevada to facilitate sales of Baby Boxes. Establish preferred lending relationships for customer financing of BOXABL products. Obtain plant and Casita certification in South Carolina and Texas. Costs are estimated to be $50,000 per State. Develop a product suitable for emergency response / temporary accommodation Month 6-12: Obtain certification in several states including Texas and Nevada for our Casita 2 boxes set up. Release to market our Emergency Response temporary with B2G focus. Obtain orders for Phase 2 products to justify development costs for product & manufacturing. Month 12+: Obtain certification in several states including California, Texas and Nevada for our Phase 2 Modular Building System Boxes. Costs are estimated to be $50,000 per state. Begin Production of Phase 2 Modular Building System Boxes, depending on receipt of sufficient orders for Phase 2 products. Develop a smart home, AI-enabled, solution to enhance our products experience. The Company believes the above referenced activities are achievable with its current cash and cash equivalents. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to meet this timeline. It is provided to identify our intentions for moving forward during the next 12 months of operation.