Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and in other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Box is the Content Cloud: a secure and intelligent content platform. Box gives organizations a single platform for their unstructured data which typically represents about 90% of all data within an organization. This data is content from blueprints to wireframes, videos to documents, proprietary formats to PDFs and it is the source of an organizations unique value. The Box Content Cloud enables our customers, to securely manage the entire content lifecycle, from the moment a file is created or ingested to when it is shared, edited, published, approved, signed, classified, and retained. Box keeps content secure and compliant, while also allowing easy access and sharing of this content from anywhere, on any device both within the organization and with external partners. With our Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) platform, users can work with their content as they need from secure external collaboration and workspaces to e-signature processes and content workflows improving employee productivity and accelerating business processes. IT teams can establish a space for compliant content management, and developers can easily create customized portals for white-labeled content collaboration. Administrators have a wide range of security, data protection, and compliance features they can activate to help meet legal and regulatory requirements, internal policies, and industry standards and regulations. The Box platform enables a broad range of high-value business use cases and integrates with more than 1,500 leading business applications. With hundreds of file formats and media types supported, Box is compatible with multiple application environments, operating systems, and devices ensuring that workers can securely access their critical business content whenever and wherever they need it. In addition, we continue to innovate by expanding our core services and offerings. We recently announced the public beta of Box Hubs to surface curated content quickly and securely through intelligent portals. Box Hubs is available with Box AI, a new set of capabilities that natively integrates advanced artificial intelligence (AI) models into the Box Content Cloud. Using Box AI for Hubs, customers can easily find answers to critical questions across multiple documents in Box and generate new content. In addition,, Box AI for Documents, which allows users to ask questions about any document they are viewing to quickly uncover key findings, and Box AI for Notes, which enables users to generate content or refine drafted material, are both now generally available. In addition, the Box AI application programming interfaces (APIs) for text generation and document Q&A are available via public beta so customers can extend Box AI capabilities to their custom applications. We also provide the following offerings: Box Sign, which enables customers with secure, seamless e-signatures right where their content lives in Box; Box Shield, our advanced security offering that helps customers reduce the risk of accidental content leakage and protect their business from insider threats and account compromise, as well as threat detection, response, and recovery for potential malware incidents, including ransomware; Box Canvas, our natively integrated, interactive virtual whiteboard tool; Box Relay, which allows our end users to easily build, manage, track, and automate workflows with no coding necessary; Box Zones, which gives global customers the ability to store their content locally in certain regions often to meet compliance requirements; Box KeySafe, a solution that builds on top of Boxs strong encryption and security capabilities to give customers greater control over the encryption keys used to secure the file contents that are stored with Box; Box Platform, which enables customers and partners to build enterprise applications using our open APIs and developer tools; Box Governance, which gives customers a better way to comply with regulatory policies, help satisfy e-discovery requests and effectively manage sensitive business information throughout its lifecycle; and Box Shuttle, which allows for easy, affordable, self-service content migration directly from the admin console from more than ten source systems, into Box. In addition, with Box Consulting, organizations can access professional services for critical topics like implementation, technology and application development, and change management and user training. The increasing traction of these product innovations allows our customers to realize the full set of capabilities of our Content Cloud. We offer our solution to our customers as a subscription-based service, with subscription fees based on the requirements of our customers, including the number of users and functionality deployed. The majority of our customers subscribe to our service through one-year contracts, although we also offer our services for terms ranging from one month to three years or more. We typically invoice our customers at the beginning of the term, in multi-year, annual, quarterly or monthly installments. We recognize revenue as we satisfy our performance obligations. Accordingly, due to our subscription model, we recognize revenue for our subscription services ratably over the term of the contract. 19 Current Period Highlights For the three months ended April 30, 2024 and 2023, our revenue was $264.7 million and $251.9 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 5%, or 8% growth on a constant currency basis. As of April 30, 2024, our remaining performance obligations were $1.212 billion, representing a 3% increase from our remaining performance obligations of $1.179 billion as of April 30, 2023, or 8% growth on a constant currency basis. For the three months ended April 30, 2024, our gross profit was $206.4 million and our gross margin was 78.0%, compared to our gross profit of $190.2 million and our gross margin of 75.5% for the three months ended April 30, 2023. For the three months ended April 30, 2024, our operating income was $18.0 million and our operating margin was 6.8%, compared to our operating income of $8.3 million and our operating margin of 3.3% for the three months ended April 30, 2023. For the three months ended April 30, 2024, our net cash provided by operating activities was $131.2 million, an increase of 5% from our net cash provided by operating activities of $124.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. For the three months ended April 30, 2024, our non-GAAP free cash flow was $123.2 million, an increase of 14% from our non-GAAP free cash flow of $108.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. To supplement our current period highlights, we present growth on a constant currency basis for revenue and remaining performance obligations. Growth on a constant currency basis is determined by comparing current period reported results with the current results calculated using the equivalent rates in the prior period. Impact of Macroeconomic Factors on Our Business Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions and their impact on customer behavior. Worsening economic conditions, including impacts from inflation, higher interest rates, slower growth, the stronger dollar versus foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen, the ongoing Hamas-Israel and Russia-Ukraine conflicts and other changes in economic conditions, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. During the three months ended April 30, 2024, in addition to headwinds from foreign exchange rate trends, we continued to see an impact from additional customer scrutiny being placed on larger deals and lower seat expansion rates due to the challenging macroeconomic environment. As a result, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, increased customer churn and delayed sales cycles, as well as customers and prospective customers reducing budgets related to services that we offer. While we believe IT budgets have tightened and some larger deals have required more scrutiny across verticals and geographies, we also believe we are well-positioned to execute through these dynamic times as the Box Content Cloud enables enterprises to streamline their businesses, drive up productivity, reduce risk, and lower costs. Key Business Metrics We use the key metrics below for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe that these key metrics provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance. We believe that both management and investors benefit from referring to these key metrics in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. These key metrics also facilitate managements internal comparisons to our historical performance as well as comparisons to certain competitors operating results. We believe these key metrics are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by institutional investors and the analyst community to help analyze the health of our business. Remaining Performance Obligations Remaining performance obligations (RPO) represent, at a point in time, contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized. RPO consists of deferred revenue and backlog. Backlog is defined as non-cancellable contracts deemed certain to be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. Future invoicing is determined to be certain when we have an executed non-cancellable contract or a significant penalty is due upon cancellation. While Box believes RPO is a leading indicator of revenue as it represents sales activity not yet recognized in revenue, it is not necessarily indicative of future revenue growth as it is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, contract renewal timing, average contract terms and foreign currency exchange rates. Box monitors RPO to manage the business and evaluate performance. RPO as of April 30, 2024 was $1.212 billion, an increase of 3% from April 30, 2023. The increase in RPO was primarily driven by expansion within existing customers as they broadened their deployment of our product offerings and the conversion to multi-product Suites. The increase in RPO was also driven by the addition of new customers and the timing of customer-driven renewals. RPO growth was partially offset by a negative impact of 470 basis points from foreign currency exchange rates. 20 Billings Billings represent our revenue plus the changes in deferred revenue and contract assets in the period. Billings we record in any particular period primarily reflect subscription renewals and expansion within existing customers plus sales to new customers, and represent amounts invoiced for all of our products and professional services. We typically invoice our customers at the beginning of the term, in multi-year, annual, quarterly or monthly installments. If the customer negotiates to pay the full subscription amount at the beginning of the period, the total subscription amount for the entire term will be reflected in billings. If the customer negotiates to be invoiced annually or more frequently, only the amount billed for such period will be included in billings. Billings help investors better understand our sales activity for a particular period, which is not necessarily reflected in our revenue given that we recognize subscription revenue ratably over the contract term. We consider billings a significant performance measure. We monitor billings to manage our business, make planning decisions, evaluate our performance and allocate resources. We believe that billings offer valuable supplemental information regarding the performance of our business and will help investors better understand the sales volumes and performance of our business. We do not consider billings to be a non-GAAP financial measure because it is calculated using exclusively revenue, deferred revenue, and contract assets, all of which are financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Billings for the three months ended April 30, 2024 were $190.5 million, a decrease of 1% for the three months ended April 30, 2023. The decrease in billings was primarily driven by a negative impact of 550 basis points from foreign currency exchange rates. Our use of billings has certain limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for revenue or an analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Billings are recognized when invoiced, while the related subscription and premier services revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term as we satisfy a performance obligation. Also, other companies, including companies in our industry, may not use billings, may calculate billings differently, may have different billing frequencies, or may use other financial measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of billings as a comparative measure. Over time, we expect to continue to normalize payment durations. In addition, as we have gained and expect to continue to gain more traction with large enterprise customers, we also anticipate our quarterly billings to increasingly concentrate in the back half of our fiscal year, especially in the fourth quarter. A calculation of billings starting with revenue, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, is presented below (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 GAAP revenue $ 264,658 $ 251,898 Deferred revenue, end of period 513,572 507,385 Less: deferred revenue, beginning of period (586,871 ) (566,630 ) Contract assets, beginning of period 2,452 1,900 Less: contract assets, end of period (3,345 ) (2,642 ) Billings $ 190,466 $ 191,911 Non-GAAP Free Cash Flow We define non-GAAP free cash flow as cash flows from operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, principal payments of finance lease liabilities, capitalized internal-use software costs, and other items that did not or are not expected to require cash settlement and that management considers to be outside of our core business. 21 Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended April 30, 2024 was $131.2 million, representing an increase of 5% from the three months ended April 30, 2023. A calculation of non-GAAP free cash flow starting with net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, is presented below (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 GAAP net cash provided by operating activities $ 131,204 $ 124,930 Proceeds from sales of property and equipment, net of purchases 1,420 (2,321 ) Principal payments of finance lease liabilities (2,141 ) (9,881 ) Capitalized internal-use software costs (7,239 ) (4,480 ) Non-GAAP free cash flow $ 123,244 $ 108,248 Net Retention Rate Net retention rate is defined as the net percentage of Total Annual Recurring Revenue (Total ARR) retained from existing customers, including expansion. We define Total ARR as the annualized recurring revenue from all active customer contracts at the end of a reporting period. We calculate our net retention rate as of a period end by starting with the Total ARR from customers as of 12 months prior to such period end (Prior Period Total ARR). We then calculate Total ARR from these same customers as of the current period end (Current Period Total ARR). Finally, we divide the Current Period Total ARR by the Prior Period Total ARR to arrive at our net retention rate. In calculating our net retention rate, we include only Total ARR associated with those customers who have subscribed to Box for at least 12 months. We believe our net retention rate is an important metric that provides insight into the long-term value of our subscription agreements and our ability to retain and grow revenue from our customer base. Net retention rate is an operational metric and there is no comparable GAAP financial measure to which we can reconcile this particular key metric. Our net retention rate was 101% and 106% as of April 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The decline in our net retention rate as of April 30, 2024 was primarily attributable to heightened budget scrutiny putting pressure on seat expansion within existing customers and increased partial customer churn. As our customers purchase add-on products or our bundled Enterprise Plus plan, we tend to realize significantly higher average contract values and stronger net retention rates as compared to customers who only purchase our core product. We believe our go-to-market efforts to deliver a solution selling strategy and our investments in product, customer success, and Box Consulting, including our Box Shuttle migration offering, are significant factors in our customer retention results. As we penetrate customer accounts, we expect our net retention rate to remain above 100% for the foreseeable future. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive our revenue primarily from three sources: (1) subscription revenue, which is comprised of subscription fees from customers who have access to our content cloud platform including routine customer support; (2) revenue from customers purchasing our premier services package; and (3) revenue from professional services such as implementing best practice use cases, project management and implementation consulting services. To date, practically all of our revenue has been derived from subscription and premier services. Subscription and premier services revenue are driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of seats sold to each customer and the price of our services. We recognize revenue as we satisfy our performance obligations. Accordingly, due to our subscription model, we recognize revenue for our subscription and premier services ratably over the contract term. We typically invoice our customers at the beginning of the term, in multi-year, annual, quarterly or monthly installments. Our subscription and premier services contracts are typically non-cancellable and do not contain refund-type provisions. The majority of our customers subscribe to our service through one-year contracts, although we also offer our services for terms ranging between one month to three years or more. Professional services are generally billed on a fixed price basis, for which revenue is recognized over time based on the proportion performed. Professional services revenue was not material as a percentage of total revenue for all periods presented. Revenue is presented net of sales and other taxes we collect on behalf of governmental authorities. 22 Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue consists primarily of costs related to providing our subscription services to our paying customers, including employee compensation and related expenses for data center operations, customer support and professional services personnel, public cloud hosting costs, depreciation of servers and equipment, security services and other tools, as well as amortization expense associated with acquired technology and capitalized internally developed software. We allocate overhead such as rent, information technology costs and employee benefit costs to all departments based on headcount. As such, general overhead expenses are reflected in cost of revenue and each of the operating expense categories set forth below. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of each category of operating expenses. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities, information technology costs and employee benefit costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, as well as allocated overhead. Our research and development efforts are focused on scaling our platform, building an ecosystem of best-of-breed applications and platforms, infrastructure, adding enterprise grade features, functionality and enhancements such as workflow automation, intelligent content management capabilities, advanced security, e-signature capability, native visual collaboration and whiteboarding, and artificial intelligence to enhance the ease of use of our cloud content management services. We capitalize certain qualifying costs to develop software for internal use incurred during the application development stage. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, sales commissions, marketing programs, travel-related expenses, as well as allocated overhead. Marketing programs include but are not limited to advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building, and product marketing. Sales and marketing expense also consists of public cloud hosting, data center and customer support costs related to providing our cloud-based services to our free users. We market and sell our cloud content management services worldwide through our direct sales organization and through indirect distribution channels such as strategic resellers. Our sales and marketing expenses are generally higher for acquiring new or expanding existing customers than for renewals of existing customer subscriptions. General and Administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses for administrative functions including finance, legal, human resources, recruiting, information systems, enterprise security, compliance, fees for external professional services and cloud-based enterprise systems, as well as allocated overhead. External professional services fees are primarily comprised of outside legal, accounting, audit and outsourcing services. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net consists of interest income, interest expense, gains and losses from foreign currency transactions, and other income and expense. Interest income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Interest expense consists primarily of interest charges for our line of credit and interest rate swap agreement, interest expense related to finance leases, and the amortization of issuance costs of our convertible senior notes. We have historically invested our cash and cash equivalents in overnight deposits, certificates of deposit, money market funds, U.S. treasury securities and non-U.S. government issued securities. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of state and foreign income taxes and, as applicable, changes in our deferred taxes, related valuation allowance positions and uncertain tax positions. 23 Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented (in thousands, except per share data): Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 264,658 $ 251,898 Cost of revenue (1) 58,252 61,651 Gross profit 206,406 190,247 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 62,673 62,518 Sales and marketing (1) 92,673 86,210 General and administrative (1) 33,053 33,184 Total operating expenses 188,399 181,912 Income from operations 18,007 8,335 Interest and other income, net 3,858 2,318 Income before provision for income taxes 21,865 10,653 Provision for income taxes 4,643 2,303 Net income $ 17,222 $ 8,350 Accretion and dividend on series A convertible preferred stock (4,240 ) (4,224 ) Undistributed earnings attributable to preferred stockholders (1,469 ) (470 ) Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 11,513 $ 3,656 Net income per share attributable to common stockholders Basic $ 0.08 $ 0.03 Diluted $ 0.08 $ 0.02 Weighted-average shares used to compute net income per share attributable to common stockholders Basic 145,299 144,739 Diluted 148,757 150,436 (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 Cost of revenue $ 4,621 $ 4,485 Research and development 17,819 17,002 Sales and marketing 17,783 15,318 General and administrative 10,939 10,472 Total stock-based compensation $ 51,162 $ 47,277 Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 and 2023 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 264,658 $ 251,898 $ 12,760 5 % The $12.8 million, or 5%, increase in revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2024 was primarily driven by seat growth in existing customers, continued strong attach rates of our multi-product Suites offerings, particularly Enterprise Plus, and strong growth in Japan. For the three months ended April 30, 2024, our Suites attach rate was 85% in deals over $100,000, an increase from 69% for the three months ended April 30, 2023. The increase was partially offset by the weakening of foreign currency exchange rates, which negatively impacted our revenue growth rate by 260 basis points, and customers partially churning their deployment with Box. 24 Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 58,252 $ 61,651 $ (3,399 ) -6 % Percentage of revenue 22 % 24 % Gross margin 78.0 % 75.5 % The $3.4 million, or 6%, decrease for the three months ended April 30, 2024 was primarily due to decreases of $7.0 million in depreciation expense and $0.6 million in bandwidth and data center related expense due to the completion of our migration to the public cloud from our collocated data centers. Additionally, there were decreases of $1.4 million and $0.2 million in employee related costs and stock-based compensation expense, driven by a 7% decrease in headcount, $1.0 million in amortization expense associated with acquired technology and capitalized internally developed software, $0.6 million in consulting and contractor related costs, and $0.4 million in office related costs. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $8.0 million in public cloud infrastructure costs, driven by our migration to the public cloud from our collocated data centers. Cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue decreased 200 basis points year-over-year. Over time, we expect our cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars but decrease as a percentage of revenue as we invest in public cloud hosting service optimization. Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 62,673 $ 62,518 $ 155 0 % Percentage of revenue 24 % 25 % The $0.2 million increase for the three months ended April 30, 2024 was primarily due to increases of $1.4 million and $1.0 million in stock-based compensation expense and employee related costs, driven by a 7% increase in headcount. The increased employee headcount and related costs are driven by the growth in lower cost regions. This increase was partially offset by an increase of $2.3 million in capitalized internally developed software costs. Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased 100 basis points year-over-year. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars but decrease as a percentage of revenue over time as we continue to make significant improvements to our content cloud product offerings and services and increase research and development in lower cost regions. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 92,673 $ 86,210 $ 6,463 7 % Percentage of revenue 35 % 34 % The $6.5 million, or 7%, increase for the three months ended April 30, 2024 was primarily due to increases of $2.4 million in stock-based compensation expense and $0.7million in employee related costs, driven by a 4% increase in headcount. Additionally, there were increases of $2.3 million in marketing expenses, driven by increased costs related to marketing events, and $1.0 million in office related costs. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue increased 100 basis points year-over-year. We expect to continue to invest in capturing our large market opportunity globally and capitalize on our competitive position with a continued focus on our profitability objectives. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars but decrease as a percentage of revenue over time as our existing customer base grows and a relatively higher percentage of our revenue is attributable to renewals versus new or expanding Box deployments and as we continue to focus on improving sales productivity. 25 General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 33,053 $ 33,184 $ (131 ) 0 % Percentage of revenue 12 % 13 % The $0.1 million decrease for the three months ended April 30, 2024 was primarily due to a decrease of $1.0 million in subscription software contract expense, partially offset by an increase of $0.8 million in employee related costs driven by a 7% increase in headcount. General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue decreased 100 basis points year-over-year. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars but decrease as a percentage of revenue over time as we benefit from greater operational scale and efficiency. Interest and Other Income, Net Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest and other income, net $ 3,858 $ 2,318 $ 1,540 66 % The $1.5 million increase for the three months ended April 30, 2024 was primarily due to an increase of $1.1 million in interest income from our certificates of deposit, money market funds, and short-term investments due to a higher interest rate environment and higher cash and short-term investment balances, and a decrease of $0.3 million in interest expense related to our finance leases. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 4,643 $ 2,303 $ 2,340 102 % The $2.3 million, or 102%, increase for the three months ended April 30, 2024 was primarily due to an increase of $2.4 million in foreign non-cash deferred tax expense as a result of the release of the valuation allowance on our U.K. deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments of $567.0 million. During the three months ended April 30, 2024, we generated operating cash flow of $131.2 million. Since our inception, we have financed our operations primarily through equity financing, cash generated from operations and debt financing. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, together with our credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months and beyond. Our long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, subscription renewal activity, billing frequency, public cloud obligations, repayment or refinancing of our debt obligations, settlement of our convertible senior notes and convertible preferred stock, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of international activities, the introduction of new and enhanced service offerings, and the continuing market acceptance of our services. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. 26 Cash Flows For the three months ended April 30, 2024 and 2023, our cash flows were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 131,204 $ 124,930 Net cash used in investing activities (23,170 ) (8,782 ) Net cash used in financing activities (35,695 ) (60,921 ) Operating Activities For the three months ended April 30, 2024, cash provided by operating activities was $131.2 million. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flow during this period were our net income of $17.2 million, stock-based compensation of $51.2 million, amortization of deferred commissions of $13.4 million, and depreciation and amortization of our property and equipment and capitalized software of $4.7 million. Cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2024 was further adjusted by net cash outflows of $44.0 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The primary drivers for the changes in operating assets and liabilities include a $135.6 million decrease in accounts receivables primarily due to higher billings in the prior quarter and timing of our cash collections and an $8.5 million decrease in operating right-of-use assets due to amortization. This was partially offset by a $65.5 million decrease in deferred revenue from revenue recognition, partially offset by billings, a $16.2 million decrease in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities primarily due to reversal of ESPP withholdings used for the March 2024 purchase and a decrease in accrued commissions, an $8.9 million decrease in operating lease liabilities due to recurring lease payments and a $7.9 million increase in deferred commissions resulting from capitalization of incremental commissions paid to our sales force. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities of $23.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 was primarily driven by $47.5 million in purchases of short-term investments, partially offset by $28.5 million in maturities and sales of short-term investments and $5.6 million in capitalized internally developed software costs. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities of $35.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 was primarily driven by $32.1 million in repurchases of our common stock, $21.3 million of employee payroll taxes paid related to net share settlement of stock awards, $3.8 million of dividend payments to preferred stockholders, and $2.1 million of principal payments of finance lease liabilities. This was partially offset by $15.7 million from issuances of common stock under our employee equity plans and $9.6 million proceeds from exercise of stock options. Debt In January 2021, we issued $345.0 million aggregate principal amount of 0.00% convertible senior notes due January 15, 2026. The Convertible Notes are senior unsecured obligations and do not bear regular interest. Each $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes is convertible into 38.7962 shares of our Class A common stock, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $25.78 per share, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events. We have made an irrevocable election to settle the principal portion of the Convertible Notes only in cash. Accordingly, upon conversion, we will pay the principal in cash and we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, the conversion premium in cash, shares of common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, at our election. In June 2023, we entered into an amended and restated secured credit agreement to provide for a $150.0 million revolving loan facility with a $45.0 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. Refer to Note 6 in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements for a detailed description of the June 2023 Facility. Series A Convertible Preferred Stock On April 7, 2021 we entered into an investment agreement with KKR and certain other investors relating to the issuance and sale of 500,000 shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value of $0.0001 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of 27 $500 million, or $1,000 per share. Refer to Note 7 in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements for a detailed description of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Share Repurchase Plan Our Board of Directors has authorized a share repurchase plan to opportunistically repurchase shares of our outstanding Class A common stock in open market transactions and on March 4, 2024, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $100 million shares of our Class A common stock. During the three months ended April 30, 2024, we repurchased 1.4 million shares at a weighted average price of $27.10 per share for a total amount of $37.2 million. As of April 30, 2024, $126.5 million remained authorized and available for additional repurchases. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Through April 30, 2024, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material effect on our financial statements. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of (i) obligations under operating leases for office spaces, (ii) purchase obligations not recognized on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2024, which relate primarily to public cloud hosting services and IT software and support services, and (iii) debt, including obligations under both our June 2023 Facility and Convertible Notes. For more information regarding our obligations for leases, purchase agreements, and debt, refer to Notes 4, 5, and 6, respectively, in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates during the three months ended April 30, 2024 from those disclosed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2024. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Part I, Item 1. Financial StatementsNote 1 for information regarding the effect of new accounting pronouncements on our financial statements. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation S-K Item 10(e), Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Commission Filings, defines and prescribes the conditions for use of non-GAAP financial information. Our measure of non-GAAP free cash flow (as defined above) meets the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. We use non-GAAP financial measures and our key metrics for financial and operational decision-making (including for purposes of determining variable compensation of members of management and other employees) and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures and key metrics provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance by excluding certain expenses that may not be indicative of our recurring core business operating results. We believe that both management and investors benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures and key metrics in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures and key metrics also facilitate managements internal comparisons to our historical performance as well as comparisons to our competitors operating results. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures and key metrics are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. 28 Non-GAAP Free Cash Flow We define non-GAAP free cash flow as cash flows from operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, principal payments of finance lease liabilities, capitalized internally developed software costs, and other items that did not or are not expected to require cash settlement and that management considers to be outside of our core business. We specifically identify other adjusting items in our reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. We consider non-GAAP free cash flow to be a profitability and liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that can possibly be used for investing in our business and strengthening the balance sheet; but it is not intended to represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is also not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. Limitations on the use of non-GAAP financial measures A limitation of our non-GAAP financial measures is that they do not have uniform definitions. Our definitions will likely differ from the definitions used by other companies, including peer companies, and therefore comparability may be limited. Thus, our non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by reconciling non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most comparable GAAP financial measures. 29