Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere herein and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2024 included in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed on the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on April 14, 2025. The condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company appearing in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are unaudited, and may not include year-end adjustments necessary to make those financial statements comparable to audited results, although, in the opinion of management, all adjustments and disclosures necessary for a fair presentation of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been included. The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full year. Please note that certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Revision of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these changes. Unless otherwise indicated, dollar amounts above $1,000 in this Report have been rounded to the nearest thousand, million or billion, as applicable. In addition to our consolidated financial statements, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. See above Note About Forward-Looking Statements. Overview General The Company is a manufacturer of building systems and is in the process of aligning our production levels to match the demand for our products. In addition to our first Nevada manufacturing facility (Factory 1), which we took possession of in May 2021, we expanded our production capacity by signing leases for additional Nevada facilities (Factory 2) in June 2022 and (Factory 3) in May 2023, respectively. While our growth has mainly been funded by our capital raising activities as described below in Liquidity, we anticipate our increased manufacturing capacity will allow us to build Boxes more efficiently, and, in doing so generate additional revenue and profit in the future. We continue to improve our workforce, including the expansion of our business development and sales teams to focus and better support the outreach to B2B, B2C, and B2G sales channels, respectively. The majority of US states have a statewide modular program which requires approval of a specific product prior to the product being able to be sold and installed within the state. The requirements to obtain these approvals vary across each state, and the approval process has resulted in delays in the Companys ability to deliver the product across the country, which has impacted the timing and amount of the Companys revenues. The Company has obtained state modular approvals under state-wide modular housing programs in New Mexico, California, Nevada and, South Carolina. The approvals were obtained as follows: During May 2024, we received approval to sell Casitas as Modular homes in California in certain climate zones. During July 2024, we received approval to sell Casitas under the Statewide Modular Program in New Mexico. During January 2025, we received approval to sell Casitas in Nevada under the Residential building code. During January 2025, we received approval to sell Casitas under the Statewide Modular Program in all climate zones in California. During June 2025, we received approvals of plan sets for the Casita in South Carolina under the Statewide Modular Program, and our manufacturers license; factory certification is pending and the Company expects this within the next 6 months. 33 The Company had originally obtained approval for its Casita in Arizona in December 2023. However, the Arizona Department of Housing revoked this approval in May 2024 due to installation issues identified at one customer site in Arizona. The Company has assessed that these issues resulted from improper installation rather than the Companys product and it is in active discussions with officials in Arizona to resolve the matter. The Company has submitted plans that are under review with the State of Arizona. New sales within recently approved states and jurisdictions may continue to face delays due to the time needed for site preparation, arranging funding for the project the purchaser, and other preparatory steps that are required to arrange delivery and installation of the units. BOXABL also has been focused on selling its products in multiple jurisdictions that do not have a statewide modular housing program. In these areas, the ultimate approval is at the discretion of the local jurisdiction and is determined on a site-by-site basis. This pertains to the following areas: Oklahoma Utah Wyoming Kansas West Virginia Hawaii Vermont Alaska Oregon Connecticut Delaware New York Tribal Lands BOXABL is generally also able to sell its Casita, by adding a permanent chassis, as a Park Model RV under ANSI A119.5 in the majority of US states. The Company retained multiple third-party inspection agencies to assist in achieving certification in multiples states with modular housing legislation simultaneously. Merger Agreement On August 4, 2025, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended, the Merger Agreement) by and among the Company, FG Merger II Corp., a Nevada corporation (FGMC), and FG Merger Sub II Inc., a Nevada corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of FGMC (Merger Sub). The Merger Agreement provides for a two-step merger transaction (the Mergers) in which, first, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company (the First Merger), with the Company surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of FGMC, and, immediately thereafter, the Company (as the surviving company in the First Merger) will merge with and into FGMC (the Second Merger), with FGMC continuing as the surviving public company (the Surviving Pubco). By virtue of the consummation of the Mergers, the Surviving Pubco will change its name to BOXABL Inc. The Boards of Directors of the Company, FGMC, and Merger Sub have unanimously approved the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby. At the effective time of the First Merger, each share of the Companys common stock (other than certain excluded shares and any shares held by stockholders who properly exercise and do not lose their dissenters rights under applicable Nevada law) will be converted into the right to receive a number of shares of common stock of the Surviving Pubco, as determined by the exchange ratio set forth in the Merger Agreement. Each share of the Companys preferred stock will be converted into the right to receive the applicable merger consideration as set forth in the Merger Agreement. Outstanding Company warrants and other convertible securities will be assumed by the Surviving Pubco and become exercisable for shares of Surviving Pubco common stock, subject to adjustment as provided in the Merger Agreement. The transaction is intended to qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Sections 1.368-2(g) and 1.368-3(a)of the Internal Revenue Code for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The aggregate merger consideration to be received by Company shareholders is equal to a combination of preferred and common shares of FGMC that equals a total of $3,500,000,000, each at a deemed value of $10 per share. 34 Closing Conditions The closing of the Mergers is subject to customary closing conditions, including, among others, approval of the transaction by the stockholders of the Company and FGMC, effectiveness of a registration statement on Form S-4 to be filed by FGMC with the SEC in connection with the transaction, expiration or termination of any applicable waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, accuracy of representations and warranties, approval for listing of the Surviving Pubco common shares on Nasdaq or NYSE, absence of any law or order prohibiting the consummation of the transaction, and other conditions as set forth in the Merger Agreement. Termination Provisions The Merger Agreement may be terminated and the transactions contemplated thereby abandoned at any time prior to the closing under certain specified circumstances. Either the Company or FGMC may terminate the agreement by written notice if the closing has not occurred on or before March 31, 2026 (the Agreement End Date), provided that the right to terminate on this basis is not available to any party whose breach of the agreement has proximately caused the failure of the closing to occur by such date. Termination is also permitted by mutual written consent of the parties, or by either party if a governmental authority enacts a law or order that makes consummation of the transactions illegal or otherwise prohibits the transaction, so long as the terminating party or its subsidiaries did not cause such prohibition by their own breach. Additional termination rights include the ability for either party to terminate if the required stockholder approvals from either the Company or FGMC are not obtained at their respective stockholder meetings, unless the failure to obtain such approval is due to the action or inaction of the party seeking termination. The agreement may also be terminated by one party if the other party has committed a material breach of its representations, warranties, or covenants that would prevent the satisfaction of closing conditions, subject to a cure period of up to thirty (30) days (or any shorter period remaining before the Agreement End Date) after notice of such breach. Upon termination, the agreement becomes void and has no further effect, except for certain provisions that expressly survive, and subject to liability for any willful and material breach or actual fraud occurring prior to termination. Each party is responsible for its own fees and expenses incurred in connection with the agreement and the contemplated transactions, except as otherwise provided. The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Merger Agreement, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 2.1 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and incorporated herein by reference. Related Agreements In connection with the execution of the Merger Agreement, FG Merger Investors II LLC, the sponsor of FGMC, entered into a support agreement pursuant to which it agreed to vote its shares of FGMC in favor of the transaction and take certain other actions in support of the Mergers (the Sponsor Support Agreement). Certain stockholders of the Company entered into a support agreement pursuant to which they agreed to vote their shares of the Company in favor of the transaction and take certain other actions in support of the Mergers (the Company Support Agreement). At closing, the Company and FGMC will enter into lock-up agreements with certain Company stockholders (the Company Lock-Up Agreements) and with the sponsor (the Sponsor Lock-Up Agreement), restricting the transfer of certain shares for specified periods following the closing. The Company and FGMC previously entered into a confidentiality and non-disclosure agreement in connection with the transaction. The foregoing description of the Sponsor Support Agreement, Company Support Agreement, Company Lock-Up Agreements, and Sponsor Lock-Up Agreement do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the Sponsor Support Agreement, Company Support Agreement, Company Lock-Up Agreements, and Sponsor Lock-Up Agreement, respectively, copies of which are attached as Exhibits 10.23, 10.24, 10.25, and 10.26 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference. 35 U.S. Federal Government Shutdown The Company is in the process of completing a proposed business combination transaction with a special purpose acquisition company (SPAC). The Company filed the registration statement on Form S-4 (the Registration Statement) with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) and is awaiting SEC comments to proceed with the next steps in the review and approval process. Due to the U.S. Federal government shutdown that occurred from October 1, 2025, to November 12, 2025, the SEC had suspended normal operations, including the review of registration statements. As a result, the SECs review of the Companys Registration Statement was delayed by approximately a month, impacting the timing of the Companys proposed business combination and related milestones. Accordingly, the end date to complete the Merger Agreement was extended to March 31, 2026 (previously December 31, 2025). Other than the impact on the S-4 Registration Statement process, the Companys operations were not materially impacted by the government shutdown. Trend Information To date through November 10, 2025, we have manufactured 779 Casitas and have completed deliveries of 293 Casitas in 7 states, including Arizona, Nevada, California, Oklahoma, Utah, New Mexico, and Hawaii. The Company has remaining customer deposits of $3.6 million from 7,732 potential customers ranging from $100 to $5,000. The Company currently requires a $1,000 to $1,500 fee (increased from $500 beginning in fourth quarter 2025) for providing a feasibility study related to a Casita order to survey the related location where the product is intended to be installed. The Company has also initiated a faith-based vertical marketing strategy, which is benefited by favorable legislation in California allowing for streamlined property site approvals. In 2025 to date, the Company entered into contracts to provide a total of 122 Casitas to faith-based organizations in California and Oklahoma, 18 of which have been delivered. The Company has been developing an expanded product line, which includes a variety of sizes and configurations that extend beyond our existing Casita model. The growing interest expressed by various external stakeholders including property developers and homebuilders have prompted us to explore additional sales channels. In January 2025, we announced the launch of prototypes of our Next Generation Products. This includes the Baby Box, a 120 sq ft compact living space, on a towable trailer, designed to RV Standard NFPA 1192 and our Phase 2 Modular Building System, comprising Boxes (modules) of varying dimensions that stack and/or connect allowing a system where homebuilder customers are able to customize the Boxes to build different building types and floorplans. We plan on beginning production of this product line manually with low capital investment to start. For our Phase 2 Modular Building System, we have been prototyping the production over the past few months and built two model homes in our Factory. This product will eventually need a new production line, but we expect to initially manufacture this within our existing facility to minimize capital expenditures. We have developed various manufacturing concepts to manufacture this product in the future and expect the design and development changes to be completed within 2026. For both our Phase 2 Modular Building System and Baby Box, there have been delays in development as the Company re-visits its product roadmap to align its production resources with its expectations of product demand. 36 In 2025, and following feedback from our customer base, we also introduced a 2-box configuration set up of our Casita including a 1 or 2 bedroom (for a total of 722 sq. ft.) set up for the California ADU market. This new floor plan can be produced with our existing production line, but is pending regulatory approval. Also, in 2025, the Company introduced a product, currently in research and development, known as Sanctuary. This is a modular housing system designed for rapid deployment of versatile shelters that can be used for emergency response and are configured in single (55 sq ft) and double (85 sq ft) occupancy layouts. The Sanctuary models are developed with a new proprietary panelized construction for superior thermal performance and rapid deployment. We anticipate that the new panel designs will initially be produced at our existing production facility. Tariffs and Inflation The U.S. government recently implemented new tariff measures affecting a broad range of imported materials. We have evaluated the potential impact of these actions on our operations and supply chain and do not expect them to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations in the near term. Our operations are currently supported by a substantial inventory of completed units manufactured prior to the effective dates of the tariff adjustments, which reduces our near-term exposure to increased costs associated with imported materials. Additionally, as we transition into the next phase of our product development, including Phase 2, our sourcing strategy reflects a greater emphasis on domestic procurement. This shift is expected to further mitigate exposure to international trade disruptions and tariff-related cost volatility. We believe that we are well positioned to react to potential increased costs from our suppliers in the future due to our cost-effective building components and manufacturing process in the factory setting compared to the cost of traditional construction of stick-built homes in the field, which would face similar cost increases. As a result, the Company believes that it would be able to pass on those costs to end customers while keeping the BOXABL solution competitive. However, recent proposals to change the international trade framework have resulted in substantial regulatory uncertainty regarding international trade and trade policy, both in the United States and abroad. The U.S. government has also raised the possibility of other initiatives that may affect our business, including renegotiation of trade agreements with other countries and the introduction of new or increased import duties or tariffs with respect to products from a number of different countries. In light of this uncertainty and the unknown impact on the broader US and global economy in the future, we do not have clarity at this point over the potential medium to long term impacts our business may face. The availability of certain goods could be affected if foreign suppliers choose to limit their exposure to U.S. markets in response to unfavorable trade policies, which could negatively impact the ability of our suppliers to deliver materials or manufacturing equipment to us and, therefore, delay or impede our deliveries. Furthermore, rising inflation, slower economic growth and increases in unemployment that may result from global trade disruptions could further deflate consumer demand, which may impact the housing market more broadly, reducing demand for our products. Results of Operations Three Months Ended September 30, 2025 Compared with the Three Months Ended September 30, 2024 Revenues Our gross revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were $186,000 and $854,000, respectively. Revenue was generated by the sale of 3 Casitas delivered to 3 customers during the three months ended September 30, 2025. This is in comparison to the sale of 11 Casitas delivered to 1 customer during the three months ended September 30, 2024. The decrease in sales is mainly attributed to personnel changes resulting from the overhaul of Companys the sales department driven by a change in the Companys go-to-market strategy. As noted previously, the Company experienced significant delays in its ability to deliver its products due to delays in customers sourcing local installers, obtaining local permit and completing site analysis and preparation. As a result, the Company decided to take a more pro-active role to facilitate installation, principally through the BOXABL Dealer Network, and to re-focus its sales and marketing to encompass coordinating the broader installation process. This refocus lead us to replace a significant number of our sales and marketing team and employ staff with skill sets aligned to this broader focus, resulting in a decline in sales activity while the reconstituted sales and marketing team adjusted to the transition. During the three months ended September 30, 2025, revenues from 3 customers made up 100% of the Companys revenues. Significant customers included Innovate ADU, Loomis Home Services, and Instant Living, representing 33%, 32%, and 35% of revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2025, respectively. 37 We are continuing to close deals from our sales pipeline/waitlist and generating interest in our next generation of products. We have reinforced our go-to market sales strategy with a targeted salesforce. On July 17, 2024, the Company launched the BOXABL Directory which is a growing network of modular home Preferred Dealers/Installers across the States where the Company has approval to sell its Casita. Since most states require various dealer and/or installer licenses in order to sell and install modular homes, BOXABL had been utilizing a network of Preferred BOXABL Dealers/Installers to handle these transactions with its end customers. In addition to the network of Dealers/Installers, the Company has also launched an online dealer portal which allows the approved and trained Dealers/Installers to access a list of potential customers that have ordered a Casita in their area, are ready to proceed with their project, and need sitework and installation services. The launch of the Companys dealer portal, combined with the expansion of our Preferred Dealer/Installer network, provides a platform for the Company to expand its sales and installation operations throughout the States where our product can be sold. Since launching the BOXABL Directory, the Company trained over 80 Dealers/Installers in its network. As the Companys product obtains additional approvals throughout the country, the Company expects to utilize these systems to execute additional sales in these territories, with faster ramp up time. In addition, during the third quarter of 2025, the Company increased its in-house sales team to increase its direct engagement with the end user consumer and to act as dealers where permissible to supplement the activities of the dealers in the BOXABL Directory. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold were $1.9 million and $3.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively, with the decrease being primarily related to the lower volume of sales. Cost of goods sold consists primarily of the cost of products used in the production of the Companys finished products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, and the related labor associated with that production. Cost of goods sold for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, consist of the following: September 30, (In Thousands) 2025 2024 Direct material/shipping $ 102 $ 371 Direct labor 87 374 Manufacturing overhead - 2,574 Inventory adjustments 1,745 - Cost of goods sold $ 1,934 $ 3,319 Manufacturing overhead costs, consisting primarily of the allocation of indirect labor, rent and lease expense, indirect supplies, scrap material and maintenance costs are included in cost of goods sold. Manufacturing overhead of $1.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2025, was applied as an inventory valuation adjustments within costs of goods sold to adjust the excess carrying value of finished goods inventory to net realizable value. The reduction of manufacturing overhead costs compared to the 2024 period was due to lower consumption of indirect materials and supplies consumed during production, lower indirect labor costs from a smaller workforce, and no stock based compensation expense recognized during the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the recognition of $671,000 of stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2024. Our cost of goods sold generally, compared to revenues for each period presented, remains significantly elevated due to our reduced production levels as we faced delays on revenues mainly from permitting and regulatory issues, customer readiness and financing. While we estimate that we could produce and deliver 1,200 Casitas per year at full factory capacity, or 300 Casitas per quarter, we only produced 29 Casitas and 50 Casitas in the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. 38 Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, consisted of the following: September 30, (In Thousands) 2025 2024 General and administrative $ 4,250 $ 2,445 Sales and marketing 3,465 2,101 Research and development 1,796 2,387 Impairment loss - 117 Total Operating expenses $ 9,511 $ 7,050 General and administrative expenses consist of compensation and benefits for various positions including company administration, rents, shop supplies, and utilities. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily related to the addition of $1.3 million of legal settlement expense reflecting the value of Series A-1 Preferred Stock issued in the settlements, higher third party legal costs related to the proposed Mergers and related preparatory work as well as additional compensation and benefits for new staff in IT, Legal, and Accounting. Offsetting this increase was lower compensation expense due to reduced headcount overall as well as $78,000 of stock-based compensation recaptured in general and administrative expenses in the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $429,000 of stock-based compensation expense recognized in the three months ended September 30, 2024. As we expand the Companys production capacity, we generally expect these expenses to decrease on a per unit basis, though they may increase somewhat upon the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. We also incurred higher sales and marketing expenses in the three months ended September 30, 2025, offset by a slight decrease in research and development expenses. Sales and marketing expenses generally consist of advertising and promotions. Starting in 2024 and increasing in 2025, the Company undertook significant new advertising campaigns to refine the marketing of the Companys products focused on generating sales activity, as well as advertising to customers, leading to a significant increase in sales and marketing expenses in the three months ended September 30, 2025 compared to prior year period. Research and development activity is essential to testing and developing BOXABL products and involves significant costs to obtain permits and approvals. These costs included test raw material used in production and researching industry standards and regulations. Research and development costs declined as the Company succeeded in obtaining state approvals under modular housing programs in several states. Following BOXABL obtaining California statewide approval for the Casita in all climate zones in January 2025, we expect to focus future research and development efforts on expanding the current generation product offering (1, 2, & 3-bed versions of the Casita), our Phase 2 Modular Building System, Sanctuary, and other new products like Baby Box. Stock-based Compensation Expense The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense based on fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the associated vesting periods. Vesting of RSU awards is generally subject to a 3-year service period and, as of October 18, 2024, also subject to a performance condition. Accordingly, stock-based compensation is recognized upon satisfaction of the service and performance condition. In the case of options, the Company uses the Black-Scholes pricing model to estimate the fair value of options on the date of grant that are then expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur in the year of forfeiture and share-based compensation expense is adjusted accordingly. For the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, the Company recaptured $13,000 and recognized $1.8 million in stock-based compensation, respectively. The decrease is attributable to employee forfeitures upon terminations in 2025, offset by the vesting of stock options under the Companys Amended 2021 stock incentive plan. See Note 12. Stockholders Equity Stock-based Compensation for further discussion. Total Other Income For the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, our total other income remained relatively flat at $477,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2025, as compared to $480,000 in the prior period. Nine months Ended September 30, 2025 Compared with the Nine months Ended September 30, 2024 Revenues Our gross revenues for the nine-months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were $588,000 and $1,562,000, respectively. Revenue was generated by the sale of 8 Casitas delivered to 7 customers, as well as from the sale of services to our dealers, merchandise sales, and material sales during the nine months ended September 30, 2025. This is in comparison to the sale of 18 Casitas delivered to 6 customers during the nine months ended September 30, 2024. The decline resulted from the overhaul of Companys the sales department driven by a change in the Companys go to market strategy, as discussed above. During the nine months ended September 30, 2025, revenues from Casita sales to 7 customers was approximately 82% of the Companys total revenues. Significant customers included Pinnacle Construction, American Home Source, and Instant Living, representing 19%, 11%, and 11%, of revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, respectively. 39 Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold were $13.8 million and $10.7 million for the nine-months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Cost of goods sold for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, consist of the following: September 30, (In Thousands) 2025 2024 Direct material/shipping $ 272 $ 623 Direct labor 232 785 Manufacturing overhead (187) 9,243 Inventory adjustments 13,458 - Cost of goods sold $ 13,775 $ 10,651 Our cost of goods sold increased significantly due to inventory adjustments related primarily to the write down of 68 units that management determined were obsolete following the inventory slow movement analysis, for which the Company determined that it was not cost effective to rework, resulting in an inventory write down of $8.4 million during the second quarter of 2025. In addition, during the nine months ended September 30, 2025, the Company recognized $5.2 million in inventory valuation adjustments within costs of goods sold related to adjusting the excess carrying value of its finished goods inventory to its net realizable value. See Note 5 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for more information regarding inventory valuation adjustments. We continue to work to align production activity with delivery schedules. We produced 64 Casitas in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 104 Casitas in the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Manufacturing overhead reflects the allocation of indirect labor, rent and lease expense, indirect supplies, scrap material and maintenance costs. Manufacturing overhead, which was applied as an inventory valuation adjustments within costs of goods sold to adjust the excess carrying value of finished goods inventory to net realizable value, declined due to lower consumption of indirect materials and supplies consumed during production, lower indirect labor costs from a smaller workforce Reflected in manufacturing overhead in the 2025 period is the recapture of $187,000 of stock-based compensation expense resulting from terminations, compared to the recognition of $2.3 million of stock-based compensation expense within manufacturing overhead in the 2024 period. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, consisted of the following: September 30, (In Thousands) 2025 2024 General and administrative $ 11,995 $ 10,017 Sales and marketing 24,957 7,162 Research and development 3,055 5,966 Impairment loss - 12,237 Total Operating expenses $ 40,007 $ 35,382 General and administrative expenses consist of compensation and benefits for various positions including company administration, rents, shop supplies, and utilities. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily related to the addition of $4.0 million of legal settlement expense reflecting the value of Series A-1 Preferred Stock issued in the settlements, higher third party legal costs related to the proposed Mergers and related preparatory work and higher compensation and benefits for additional staff in IT, Legal, and Accounting. Offsetting this increase was lower compensation expense due to reduced headcount overall as well as $265,000 of stock-based compensation recaptured in general and administrative expenses in the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $1.5 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized in the three months ended September 30, 2024. We also incurred higher sales and marketing expenses in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the prior period, reflecting increased advertising as discussed above. Research and development activity declined following our obtaining state approvals under modular housing programs in several states. Impairment loss in the 2024 period reflects the impairment loss of deposits on equipment and fixed assets for assets and customized equipment for the Companys originally planned generation 2.0 Casita, which were never delivered to the Company. The matter is currently the subject of litigation. 40 Stock-based Compensation Expense For the nine-months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, the Company recaptured $3.6 million and recognized $6.7 million in stock-based compensation, respectively. The decrease is attributable to employee forfeitures upon terminations in 2025, offset by the vesting of stock options under the Companys Amended 2021 stock incentive plan. See Note 12. Stockholders Equity Stock-based Compensation for further discussion. Total Other Income For the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, our total other income was $1.3 million as compared to $1.6 million, respectively, primarily due to lower balances of interest-bearing deposits. Liquidity and Capital Resources Going Concern The Companys unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the assumption that the Company will be able to continue as a going concern. The going concern assumption contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. However, substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern is probable. Primarily due to slower sales associated with delays in obtaining US statewide modular approvals and customer readiness, the Company reported a net loss of $51.8 million and an operating cash outflow of $42.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025. At September 30, 2025, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $770.3 million. Absent any other action, the Company will require additional liquidity to continue its operations over the next 12 months. The continuing viability of the Company and its ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on the Company being successful in its continued efforts in growing its revenue and/or accessing additional sources of capital. Managements plan to address this need includes (a) continued exercise of tight controls to conserve cash, (b) accelerating product sales, and (c) raising funds through equity financing. The Company conducted offerings of shares of its preferred stock through Regulation A and Regulation D in the United States and in a Canadian offering, that were finalized for settlement during the third quarter of 2025. However, there can be no assurances that managements plans will be achieved. Sources of Liquidity To date, our operations have been financed by our exempt offerings of securities made in reliance on Regulation A, Regulation CF and both Rule 506(c) and Rule 506(b) of Regulation D in the United States and exempt offering regulations in Canada. For details regarding our securities offerings, see below Sales of Securities. At September 30, 2025, our principal source of liquidity was our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, which we achieved through our offerings of securities as discussed above. As of September 30, 2025, the Company held $34.5 million in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, $1.1 million in digital assets, and $1.7 million in investments in short-term treasury notes, compared to $5.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, and $15.9 million held in short-term treasury notes as of December 31, 2024. Based on the Companys current burn rate of $4.7 million per month, we anticipate that the current liquidity together with cash generated from sales of our products will be sufficient to meet our immediate cash needs for 7 months. Historical Cash Flows Nine months Ended September 30, (In Thousands) 2025 2024 Net cash used in operating activities $ (42,030 ) $ (28,632 ) Net cash provided by investing activities $ 12,831 $ 6,236 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 58,020 $ 10,565 41 Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities included net loss adjusted for several non-cash items such as depreciation & amortization, stock-based compensation, inventory valuation, and other non-cash expenses, in addition to the change in working capital as inventory balances increased. Investing Activities Primary investing activities included purchase of property, equipment, leasehold improvement, payment of security deposit for our factory and other facility, and acquisition and sales of short-term investments. The increase in cash flows provided by investing activities in the third quarter of 2025 was due to significantly reduced purchases of U.S. Treasuries during the period, offset by lower purchases of investments in the 2025 period compared to the 2024 period. Financing Activities Primary sources of our financing activities included net proceeds from issuance and sales of A-2 and A-3 Preferred Stock. This also includes proceeds received in advance of security issuance, which is included within the Companys subscription liability. Inventory Our physical assets decreased with inventory of $17.5 million as of September 30, 2025, related to 372 inventory units, which is comprised of $7.8 million related to 153 Casitas in finished goods and $7.2 million related to 220 work-in-process units. This compares to $24.3 million in inventory as of December 31, 2024, primarily comprised of 397 Casitas classified as finished goods. During the nine months ended September 30, 2025, the Company decided to rework certain of its existing units to meet California modular specifications so that these units are able to be sold in California, as discussed in Note 5 of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. During the Companys second quarter of 2025, approximately $7.1 million of inventory was reclassified from finished goods to work-in-process on the consolidated balance sheet. The decline in the Companys September 30, 2025 total inventory balance mainly relates to the write down of 68 units that had been held in inventory for an extended time period and for which the Company determined that it was not cost effective to rework. Subsequent to September 30, 2025 and through November 3, 2025, we delivered 5 additional Casitas. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, Plant and Equipment decreased to $7.7 million as of September 30, 2025 compared to $8.9 million as of December 31, 2024 primarily resulting from depreciation of machinery and equipment at our manufacturing facility. Sales of Securities During the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, the Company conducted offerings under Regulation A, Regulation D, and in a Canadian offering. These offerings terminated in June 2025. The progress of these offerings during those periods was as follows: (In Thousands) Nine months Ended September 30, 2025 Nine months Ended September 30, 2024 Offering Shares Sold Gross Proceeds Shares Sold Gross Proceeds Regulation A (Series A-3) 70,541 $ 55,096 10,672 $ 8,234 Regulation D (Series A-3) 9,648 7,247 5,545 3,245 Private Settlement (Series A-1)* 5,050 4,039 - - Canada (Series A-2) 162 129 204 163 Total 85,401 $ 66,511 $ 16,421 $ 11,642 * These shares were issued as part of a settlement and resulted in the recognition of $4.0 million of legal settlement expenses recorded in general and administrative expenses. 42 Material Commitments and Obligations Expense Commitments As of September 30, 2025, we reported current lease liabilities of $3.7 million compared to $3.5 million as of December 31, 2024. Our long-term lease liability decreased to $4.3 million as of September 30, 2025, from $7.2 million as of December 31, 2024, due to the passage of time. Customer Deposits Our main non-lease liability is the Companys obligation to customers who have placed deposits on the purchase of our products. As of September 30, 2025, the Company held customer deposits in the amount of $3.6 million, which was relatively unchanged compare to $3.6 million as of December 31, 2024, with new deposits generally matching refunds and/or application of customer deposits to customer orders that were fulfilled during 2025. Deferred Revenue As of September 30, 2025, our balance sheet carried $2.4 million of deferred revenue related primarily to advanced deposits on unfulfilled purchase orders, with 4 customers, each representing 10% or more of these deferred revenues, constituting approximately 55% of total deferred revenue. This compares to $2.3 million of deferred revenue as of December 31, 2024. Deferred revenue generally occurs when the Company receives payments from the customer in advance of the Company shipping units to that customer. Pursuant to ASC 606, Revenue Recognition, the Company records deferred revenue for paid, unfulfilled performance obligations which are represented by the Casitas or installer training sessions that had not yet been delivered as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2025 or December 31, 2024. 43 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Inventory Valuation Inventories consist of raw materials, in-bound freight and duties, work in progress, and finished goods. Inventories available for sale are valued at the lower of cost or net realized value. Cost is determined using the weighted average method. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, bulk sales, and the expected recoverable values for each disposition category. On a periodic basis, the Company performs a physical count of its inventory and records an inventory valuation allowance for inventory that has become obsolete or inventory that has a cost basis in excess of the expected net realizable value. Damaged and obsolete inventory are valued based on specific identification and managements estimate of net realizable value, including consideration of whether the items are usable in current or future production. Any difference between cost and estimated realizable value is recognized as an expense. Intangible Assets The Company has intangible assets that are amortized over the respective estimated lives on a straight-line basis unless the lives are determined to be indefinite and reviewed for impairment whenever events or other changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Companys intangible assets include intellectual property associated with patents and trademarks that are amortized over their estimated useful life of 14 years, or the stated expiration date, whichever is more determinable. The Company also has implementation costs for cloud computing and hosting arrangements for software-as-a-service arrangements that are recorded as an intangible asset on the balance sheet, and subsequently amortized over their economic or legal life, whichever is shorter. The Company applies the following useful lives to its intangible assets: Intellectual property 14 years Software 1-3 years Domain 5 years The Company has also incurred costs to develop software that are being developed for sale and/or external-use. These software development costs are recognized in research and development expenses on the Companys statement of comprehensive loss, as these costs do not qualify for capitalization until the software has reached the point of technological feasibility, which is determined after the planning, designing, coding, and testing phases have been completed. Stock-Based Compensation The Company applies ASC 718, Stock-Based Compensation for all stock-based awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, that are measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the associated vesting periods. The fair value of stock options is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of restricted stock awards is estimated on the date of the grant based on the fair value of the Companys underlying common stock. The Company recognizes compensation expense for stock options on a straight-line basis over the associated service or vesting periods. Effective October 18, 2024, restricted stock awards became subject to a performance condition, which defers vesting of restricted stock awards until a monetization event. Accordingly, the Company shall not recognize stock-based compensation from restricted stock awards until a monetization event becomes probable. Determining the grant date fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires management to make assumptions and judgments. These estimates involve inherent uncertainties and, if different assumptions had been used, stock-based compensation expense could have been materially different from the amounts recorded. 44 The Company believes the above referenced activities are achievable with its current cash and cash equivalents. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to meet this timeline. It is provided to identify our intentions for moving forward during the next 12 months of operation.