Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and in other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Box provides a cloud-based, mobile-optimized Enterprise Content Collaboration platform that enables organizations of all sizes to easily and securely manage their content from anywhere. Our platform enables users to collaborate on content both internally and externally, build workflows to power mission-critical processes and deploy compliance and security features that are essential in certain industries. We have built our platform to work across multiple file formats, application environments, operating systems and devices. Our mission is to transform the way people and organizations work so they can achieve their greatest ambitions. We were founded and publicly launched our platform in 2005 with a simple but powerful idea: to make it incredibly easy for people to securely manage, share and collaborate on their most important content online. In 2006, we introduced a free version of our product in order to rapidly grow our user base, surpassing one million registered users by July 2007. As users began to bring our solution into the workplace, we learned that businesses were eager for a solution to empower user-friendly content sharing and collaboration in a secure, manageable way. Starting in 2007, we began enhancing our platform to serve businesses and large enterprises, which meant expanding our business functionality with features such as our administrative console, identity integration, activity reporting and full-text search. To further satisfy the requirements of IT departments in large organizations, we began to invest heavily in enhancing the security of our platform. Also in 2007, we began to build an enterprise sales team. The continual evolution of our platform features allowed our sales team to sell into increasingly larger organizations. To empower users to work securely from anywhere, we built native applications for all major mobile platforms. The introduction of our iPad application in 2010 further accelerated enterprise adoption of our platform. In 2012, we introduced our Box OneCloud platform and our Box Embed framework to encourage developers and independent software vendors (ISVs) to build powerful applications that connect to Box, furthering the reach of the Box service. In recent years, we have expanded our global presence, opening our first international office in London in 2012, followed by Paris and Tokyo in 2013. In 2014, we launched Box for Industries to accelerate business transformation in every major industry and we continued to expand our international presence further. So far in 2015, we continued to innovate by launching Box for Financial Services and expanding our security offerings by introducing Box Enterprise Key Management (EKM), a solution that builds on top of Boxs strong encryption and security capabilities to give customers greater control over the encryption keys used to secure the file contents that are stored with Box. We offer our solution to our customers as a subscription-based service, with subscription fees based on the requirements of our customers, including the number of users and functionality deployed. The majority of our customers subscribe to our service through one-year contracts, although we also offer our services for terms ranging between one month to three years or more. We typically invoice our customers at the beginning of the term, in multiyear, annual, quarterly or monthly installments. We recognize revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period. Our objective is to build an enduring business that creates sustainable revenue and earnings growth over the long term. To best achieve this objective, we focus on growing the number of Box users and paying organizations through direct field sales, direct inside sales, indirect channel sales and through word-of-mouth by individual users, some of whom use our services at no cost. Individual users and organizations can also simply sign up to use our solution on our website. We believe this approach not only helps us build a critical mass of users but also has a viral effect within organizations as more of their employees use our service and encourage their IT professionals to deploy our services to a broader user base. We have achieved significant growth in a short period of time. Our user base includes 37 million registered users. We define a registered user as a Box account that has been provisioned to a unique user ID. As of April 30, 2015, over 10%, of our registered users were paying users who register as part of a larger enterprise or business account or by using a personal account. We currently have over 47,000 paying organizations, and our solution is offered in 22 languages. We define paying organizations as separate and distinct buying entities, such as a company, an educational or government institution, or a distinct business unit of a large corporation, that have entered into a subscription agreement with us to utilize our services. 24 Organizations typically purchase our solution in the following ways: (i) employees in one or more small groups within the organization may individually purchase our service; (ii) organizations may purchase IT-sponsored, enterprise-level agreements with deployments for specific, targeted use cases ranging from tens to thousands of user seats; or (iii) organizations may purchase IT- sponsored, enterprise-level agreements where the number of user seats sold is intended to accommodate and enable nearly all information workers within the organization in whatever use cases they desire to adopt over the term of the subscription. For the trailing 12 months ended April 30, 2015, 60% of our orders for subscription services were from new enterprise customers and expansion within existing enterprise customers. We consider enterprise customers to be organizations with at least 1,000 employees, as such organizations are the focus of our Enterprise Accounts sales team. We intend to continue scaling our organization to meet the increasingly complex needs of our customers. Our sales and customer success teams are organized to efficiently serve organizations ranging from small businesses to the worlds largest global organizations. We have invested and expect to continue to invest heavily in our sales and marketing teams to sell our services around the world, as well as in our development efforts to deliver additional features and capabilities of our cloud services to address our customers evolving needs. We also expect to continue to make significant investments in both our datacenter infrastructure to meet the needs of our growing user base and our professional services organization to address the strategic needs of our customers in more complex deployments and to drive broader adoption across a wide array of use cases. As a result of our continuing investments to scale our business in each of these areas, we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future. For the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014, our revenue was $65.6 million and $45.3 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 45%, and our net losses were $47.3 million and $38.5 million, respectively. For the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014, revenue from non-U.S. customers represented 20% of our revenue. We expect our revenue from non-U.S. customers to increase at a higher rate than our revenue from U.S. customers over time. Box is headquartered in Los Altos, California and operates offices in California, New York, Texas, London, Paris and Tokyo. Our Business Model Our business model focuses on maximizing the lifetime value of a customer relationship. We make significant investments in acquiring new customers and believe that we will be able to achieve a positive return on these investments by retaining customers and expanding the size of our deployments within our customer base over time. In connection with the acquisition of new customers, we incur and recognize significant upfront costs. These costs include sales and marketing costs associated with acquiring new customers, such as sales commission expenses, a significant portion of which is expensed upfront and the remaining portion of which is expensed over the length of the non-cancellable subscription term, and marketing costs, which are expensed as incurred. Due to our subscription model, we recognize revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period, which commences when all of the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Although our objective is for each customer to be profitable for us over the duration of our relationship, the costs we incur with respect to any customer relationship, whether a new customer or an expansion within an existing customer, may exceed revenue in earlier periods because we recognize those costs faster than we recognize the associated revenue . 25 Because of these dynamics, we experience a range of profitability with our customers depending in large part upon what stage of the customer phase they are in. We generally incur higher sales and marketing expenses for new customers and existing customers who are still in an expanding stage. For new customers, our associated sales and marketing expenses typically exceed the first year revenue we recognize from those customers. For customers who are expanding their use of Box, we incur various associated marketing expenses as well as sales commission expenses, though we typically recognize higher revenue than sales and marketing expenses. For typical customers who are renewing their Box subscriptions, our associated sales and marketing expenses are significantly less than the revenue we recognize from those customers. These differences are primarily driven by the higher compensation we provide to our sales force for new customers and customer subscription expansions compared to the compensation we provide to our sales force for routine subscription renewals by customers. In addition, our sales and marketing expenses, other than the compensation we provide to our sales force, are generally higher for acquiring new customers versus expansions or renewals of existing customer subscriptions. We believe that, over time, as our existing customer base grows and a relatively higher percentage of our revenue is attributable to renewals versus new or expanding Box deployments, we will experience lower associated sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue . Key Business Metrics We monitor the following key metrics to help us measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections, assess operational efficiencies and make strategic decisions. In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe the following non-GAAP financial and operational measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Billings (in thousands) $ 69,765 $ 44,208 Billings growth rate 58 % 56 % Retention rate (period end) 123 % 135 % 26 Billings Billings represent our revenue plus the change in deferred revenue in the period. Billings we record in any particular period reflect sales to new customers plus subscription renewals and expansion within existing customers, and represent amounts invoiced for subscription, premier support and professional services. We typically invoice our customers at the beginning of the term, in multiyear, annual, quarterly or monthly installments. If the customer elects to pay the full subscription amount at the beginning of the period, the total subscription amount for the entire term will be reflected in billings. If the customer elects to be invoiced annually or more frequently, only the amount billed for such period will be included in billings. We consider billings a significant performance measure and a leading indicator of future revenue. Billings also help investors better understand our sales activity for a particular period, which is not necessarily reflected in our revenue as a result of the fact that we recognize subscription revenue ratably over the subscription term. We monitor billings to manage our business, make planning decisions, evaluate our performance and allocate resources. We believe that billings offers valuable supplemental information regarding the performance of our business and will help investors better understand the sales volumes and performance of our business. Billings increased 58% in the three months ended April 30, 2015 over the three months ended April 30, 2014, and 56% in the three months ended April 30, 2014 over the three months ended April 30, 2013. The increase in billings was primarily driven by the addition of new customers with larger initial deployments and expansion with respect to the number of users within existing customers . Retention Rate We calculate our retention rate as of a period end by starting with the annual contract value (ACV) from customers with contract value of $5,000 or more as of 12 months prior to such period end (Prior Period ACV) and a subscription term of at least 12 months. We then calculate ACV from these same customers as of the current period end (Current Period ACV). Finally, we divide the aggregate Current Period ACV for the trailing 12 month period by the aggregate Prior Period ACV for the trailing 12 month period to arrive at our retention rate. We believe our retention rate is an important metric that provides insight into the long-term value of our subscription agreements and our ability to retain and grow revenue from our customer base. We focus on contracts that have a value of $5,000 or more because, over time, these customers give us the best indicator for the growth of our business and the potential for incremental business as they renew and expand their deployments, and contracts with these customers represented a substantial majority of our revenue for three months ended April 30, 2015. Retention rate is an operational metric and there is no comparable GAAP financial measure to which we can reconcile this particular key metric. Our retention rate was approximately 123% and 135% as of April 30, 2015 and April 30, 2014, respectively. The calculation of our retention rate reflects both net user expansion and the loss of customers who do not renew their subscriptions with us, which was approaching 4% for enterprise customers of the Prior Period ACV for the trailing 12 months ended April 30, 2015, a decrease from the trailing 12 months ended April 30, 2014. Our retention rates consistently exceeded 100% and were primarily attributable to an increase in user expansion, from both enterprise and small and medium business customers. We believe our investments in product, Customer Success, and Box Consulting are driving customer retention in excess of 100%. As we penetrate customer accounts, we expect our rate of growth in expansion to trend down over time but our retention rate to remain above 100% for the foreseeable future. Reconciliation of Billings to Revenue To provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results, we have disclosed in the table above and within this report billings, a non-GAAP financial measure. We have provided a reconciliation below of billings to revenue, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We consider billings a significant performance measure and a leading indicator of future revenue. Billings also help investors better understand our sales activity for a particular period, which is not necessarily reflected in our revenue as a result of the fact that we recognize subscription revenue ratably over the subscription term. We monitor billings to manage our business, make planning decisions, evaluate our performance and allocate resources. Our use of billings, a non-GAAP financial measure, has the following limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for revenue or an analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Billings are recognized when invoiced, while the related revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the subscription or premier support services. When we invoice customers more frequently than their subscription period, amounts not yet invoiced will not be reflected in deferred revenue or billings. Also, other companies, including companies in our industry, may not use billings, may calculate billings differently, may have different billing frequencies, or may use other financial measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of billings as a comparative measure. 27 A reconciliation of billings to revenue, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, is presented below: Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 GAAP revenue $ 65,621 $ 45,330 Deferred revenue, end of period 124,201 88,950 Less: deferred revenue, beginning of period (120,057 ) (90,072 ) Billings $ 69,765 $ 44,208 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive our revenue from three sources: (1) subscription revenue, which is comprised of subscription fees from customers utilizing our cloud-based Enterprise Content Collaboration services that include routine customer support; (2) revenue from customers purchasing our premier support package; and (3) revenue from professional services such as implementing best practice use cases, project management and other implementation consulting services. To date, practically all of our revenue has been derived from subscription and premier support services. Subscription and premier support revenue is driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of seats sold to each customer and the price of our services. Subscription and premier support revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the later of the date the service is provisioned to the customer and the date all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Our subscription and support contracts are typically non-cancellable and do not contain refund-type provisions. The majority of our customers subscribe to our service through one-year contracts, although we also offer our services for terms ranging between one month to three years or more. We typically invoice our customers at the beginning of the term, in multiyear, annual, quarterly or monthly installments. Amounts that have been invoiced are initially recorded as deferred revenue and are recognized ratably over the invoice period. Amounts that have not been invoiced are not reflected in deferred revenue. Revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription term. Professional services revenue is recognized as the services are rendered for time and material contracts, and using the proportional performance method over the period the services are performed for fixed price contracts. Professional services revenue was not material for all periods presented. Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue consists primarily of costs related to providing our cloud-based services to our paying customers, including employee compensation and related expenses for datacenter operations, customer support and professional services personnel, payments to outside infrastructure service providers, depreciation of servers and equipment, security services and other tools, as well as amortization of acquired technology. We allocate overhead such as rent, information technology costs and employee benefit costs to all departments based on headcount. As such, general overhead expenses are reflected in cost of revenue and each of the operating expense categories set forth below. We expect our cost of revenue to increase in dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenue as we continue to invest in our datacenter operations, Box Consulting resources and customer support to support the growth of new product, our customer base, as well as our international expansion. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of each category of operating expenses. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities, information technology costs and employee benefit costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, as well as allocated overhead. Our research and development efforts are focused on scaling our platform, expanding enterprise grade features, functionality and security, and enhancing the ease of use of our cloud-based services. We expect our research and development expense to increase in dollars but decrease as a percentage of revenue over time, as we continue to invest in our future products and services. 28 Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, sales commissions, marketing programs, travel -related expenses, as well as allocated overhead. Marketing programs include but are not limited to advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building, and product marketing. Sales and marketing expense also consists of datacenter and customer support costs related to providing our cloud-based services to our free users. We market and sell our cloud-based services worldwide through our direct sales organization and through indirect distribution channels such as strategic resellers. We expect our sales and marketing expense to continue to increase in dollars but decrease as a percentage of revenue over time as we increase the size of our sales and marketing organization and expand our international presence. General and Administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses for administrative functions including finance, legal, human resources and recruiting, and fees for external professional services as well as allocated overhead. External professional services fees are primarily comprised of outside legal, litigation, accounting, temporary services, audit and outsourcing services. We expect our general and administrative expense to increase in dollars but decrease as a percentage of revenue over time as we incur additional costs related to operating as a publicly-traded company including increased headcount and audit, legal, regulatory and other related fees. Remeasurement of Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock Warrant Liability The remeasurement of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability includes charges from the change in fair value of our redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability as of each period end. These redeemable convertible preferred stock warrants remained outstanding until the exercise of the warrants or the completion of our initial public offering, at which time the warrant liability was remeasured to fair value and reclassified to additional paid-in capital. As of January 31, 2015, there were no longer any redeemable convertible preferred stock warrants outstanding. Interest Income (Expense), Net Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. We have historically invested our cash in overnight deposits and short-term, investment-grade corporate securities. Interest expense consists of interest charges, fees on letters of credit and the amortization of capitalized debt issuance costs associated with our outstanding borrowings. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of gains and losses from foreign currency transactions and other income (expense). Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Provision (benefit) for income taxes consists primarily of state income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. 29 Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented in dollars and as a percentage of our revenue: Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 65,621 $ 45,330 Cost of revenue(1)(2) 17,153 9,228 Gross profit 48,468 36,102 Operating expenses: Research and development(2) 23,134 14,898 Sales and marketing(2) 56,495 47,440 General and administrative(1)(2) 15,472 11,546 Total operating expenses 95,101 73,884 Loss from operations (46,633 ) (37,782 ) Remeasurement of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability (267 ) Interest expenses, net (514 ) (405 ) Other income (expense), net (77 ) 7 Loss before provision for income taxes (47,224 ) (38,447 ) Provision for income taxes 59 64 Net loss $ (47,283 ) $ (38,511 ) (1) Includes intangible assets amortization as follows: Cost of revenue $ 1,107 $ 653 General and administrative 39 42 Total intangible assets amortization $ 1,146 $ 695 (2) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Cost of revenue $ 851 $ 226 Research and development 5,263 2,008 Sales and marketing 4,283 2,065 General and administrative 2,318 1,453 Total stock-based compensation $ 12,715 $ 5,752 30 Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 Percentage of Revenue: Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 26 20 Gross profit 74 80 Operating expenses: Research and development 35 33 Sales and marketing 86 105 General and administrative 24 25 Total operating expenses 145 163 Loss from operations (71 ) (83 ) Remeasurement of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability (1 ) Interest expenses, net (1 ) (1 ) Other income (expense), net Loss before provision for income taxes (72 ) (85 ) Provision for income taxes Net loss (72 ) % (85 ) % Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 65,621 $ 45,330 $ 20,291 45 % Revenue was $65.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015, compared to $45.3 million for the three months ended April, 2014, representing an increase of $20.3 million, or 45%. The increase in revenue was substantially driven by an increase in subscription services. The increase in subscription services was due to the addition of new customers, as the number of paying organizations increased by more than 20% from April 30, 2014 to April 30, 2015. Also in this period, we experienced increased renewals from, and expansion within, existing customers as they broadened their deployment of our product offerings, as reflected in our retention rate of 123% as of April 30, 2015. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 17,153 $ 9,228 $ 7,925 86 % Percentage of revenue 26 % 20 % Cost of revenue was $17.2 million, or 26% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2015, compared to $9.2 million, or 20% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2014, representing an increase of $7.9 million, or 86%. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $2.1 million in datacenter service costs and an increase of $2.0 million in depreciation of our server equipment as we increased our capacity to serve a larger number of customers, and an increase of $1.4 million in allocated overhead costs which was primarily driven by the expenses related to our new Redwood City facility. In addition, there was an increase of $2.0 million in employee and related costs and an increase of $0.6 million in stock-based compensation expense resulting from headcount growth in our datacenter operations, customer support and professional services functions. Headcount in these functions grew from 131 employees as of April 30, 2014 to 185 employees as of April 30, 2015. Cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue increased 6 points year-over-year as we continued to make investments in our data center infrastructure to support our expected growth in paying customers and new products. 31 Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 23,134 $ 14,898 $ 8,236 55 % Percentage of revenue 35 % 33 % Research and development expenses were $23.1 million, or 35% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2015, compared to $14.9 million, or 33% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2014, representing an increase of $8.2 million, or 55%. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $3.3 million in stock-based compensation expense and an increase of $2.6 million in employee and related costs as we increased our headcount from 233 employees as of April 30, 2014 to 280 employees as of April 30, 2015 to support continued investment in our product and service offerings and scalability, and an increase of $1.7 million in allocated overhead costs which was primarily driven by the expenses related to our new Redwood City facility. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 56,495 $ 47,440 $ 9,055 19 % Percentage of revenue 86 % 105 % Sales and marketing expenses were $56.5 million, or 86% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2015, compared to $47.4 million, or 105% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2014, representing an increase of $9.1 million, or 19%. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $2.2 million in stock-based compensation expense and an increase of $1.0 million in employee and related costs, as we increased our headcount from 529 employees as of April 30, 2014 to 578 employees as of April 30, 2015, an increase of $2.1 million in allocated overhead costs which was primarily driven by the expenses related to our new Redwood City facility, an increase of $1.3 million in datacenter and customer support costs to support free users, and increase of $1.4 million in sales commission driven by increased sales, an increase of $0.4 million in travel-related costs, and an increase of $0.4 million in advertising expenses. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased 19 points year over year due to improved marketing efficiency, as our sales and marketing expenses are generally higher for acquiring new customers versus expansions or renewals of existing customer subscriptions, and a decrease in relative cost to support our free users. Over time, as our existing customer base grows and a relatively higher percentage of our revenue is attributable to renewals versus new or expanding Box deployments, we expect that sales and marketing expenses will decrease as a percentage of revenue. We continue to invest aggressively to capture our large market opportunity and capitalize on our competitive position, while growing our productivity and efficiency to achieve our long-term margin objectives. General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 15,472 $ 11,546 $ 3,926 34 % Percentage of revenue 24 % 25 % General and administrative expenses were $15.5 million, or 24% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2015, compared to $11.5 million, or 25% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2014, representing an increase of $3.9 million, or 34%. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $1.7 million in employee and related costs and an increase of $0.9 million in stock-based compensation expense, as we increased our headcount from 123 employees as of April 30, 2014 to 170 employees as of April 30, 2015, an increase of $0.6 million in outside agency and consulting services expenses, and an increase of $0.4 million in subscription software expenses, offset by a decrease of $0.7 million in litigation expenses. 32 Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (32,182 ) $ (23,468 ) Net cash used in investing activities (113,280 ) (5,961 ) Net cash used in financing activities (4,980 ) (158 ) As of April 30, 2015, we had cash and cash equivalents of $180.0 million. Our cash and cash equivalents are comprised primarily of overnight cash deposits. We have generated significant operating losses and negative cash flows from operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit and consolidated statements of cash flows. We may continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations in the future and may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. Since our inception, we have financed our operations primarily through equity, cash generated from sales and, to a lesser extent, debt financing. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with our marketable securities and credit facilities, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, subscription renewal activity, billing frequency, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing and international operation activities, the introduction of new and enhanced services offerings, and the continuing market acceptance of our services. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Operating Activities For the three months ended April 30, 2015, cash used in operating activities was $32.2 million, or $7.2 million after excluding $25.0 million in restricted cash used to secure a letter of credit for the newly leased Redwood City headquarters. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $47.3 million and changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $10.4 million, partially offset by non-cash charges of $12.7 million for stock-based compensation, $9.2 million for depreciation and amortization of our property and equipment and intangible assets, and $3.6 million for amortization of deferred commissions. The primary drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $28.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets due primarily to a $25.0 million increase in restricted cash to secure a letter of credit for our Redwood City headquarters lease, and a $2.8 million increase in deferred commissions, partially offset by a $15.6 million decrease in accounts receivable due to highly effective cash collections during the period, a $4.1 million increase in deferred revenue, and a $1.8 million increase in deferred rent. For the three months ended April 30, 2014, cash used in operating activities was $23.5 million. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $38.5 million, partially offset by non-cash charges of $5.9 million for depreciation and amortization of our property and equipment and intangible assets, $5.8 million for stock-based compensation, $2.9 million for amortization of deferred commissions, and $0.3 million for the remeasurement of our redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability, and changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $0.1 million. The primary drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $10.6 million decrease in accounts receivable and a $1.3 million increase in accounts payable, partially offset by a $6.3 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $2.8 million increase in deferred commissions, a $2.3 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, and a $1.1 million decrease in deferred revenue. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily attributable to timing of our billings and cash collections. The decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities was primarily attributable to timing of our cash payments. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities of $113.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 was primarily due to $106.3 million of purchases of marketable securities, $9.9 million of capital expenditures and $0.2 million of payments for acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets, net of cash acquired, partially offset by $3.1 million of proceeds from sales of marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities of $6.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014 was due to capital expenditures. 33 Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities of $5.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 was primarily due to $4.2 million of employee payroll taxes paid related to net share settlement of restricted stock units, $1.3 million of payments of offering costs related to our initial public offering and $0.2 million of payments of capital lease obligations, partially offset by $0.8 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Cash used in financing activities of $0.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014 was primarily due to $1.7 million of payments of offering costs related to our initial public offering, partially offset by $1.6 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of April 30, 2015: Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 3-5 Years More Than Total Year 1-3 Years Loss 5 Years Debt(1) $ 41,986 $ 1,501 $ 40,485 $ $ Operating leases 266,500 5,810 32,906 42,644 185,140 Capital leases(2) 3,474 1,267 2,207 Purchase obligations(3) 29,249 20,440 8,809 Total $ 341,209 $ 29,018 $ 84,407 $ 42,644 $ 185,140 (1) Includes interest and unused commitment fee on our line of credit. (2) Includes obligations related to our datacenter hardware. (3) Purchase obligations relate primarily to datacenter operations and marketing activities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Through April 30, 2015, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended April 30, 2015 from those disclosed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2015. Recent Accounting Pronouncement In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09 regarding ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The standard provides principles for recognizing revenue for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers with the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The standard will be effective for our fiscal year beginning February 1, 2017. We are currently in the process of assessing the adoption methodology, which allows the amendment to be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented, or with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application. We are also evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on our consolidated financial statements and have not determined whether the effect will be material. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation S-K Item 10(e), Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Commission Filings, defines and prescribes the conditions for use of non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of non-GAAP operating loss, non-GAAP operating margin, 34 non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP net loss attributable to common stockholders and non-GAAP net loss per share attributable to common stockholders (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures) each meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. We use these non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. Our management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance by excluding certain expenses that may not be indicative of our recurring core business operating results. We believe that both management and investors benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate managements internal comparisons to our historical performance as well as comparisons to our competitors operating results. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. Non-GAAP operating loss and operating margin We define non-GAAP operating loss as operating loss excluding expenses related to stock-based compensation (SBC), intangible assets amortization, and as applicable, other special items. Non-GAAP operating margin is defined as non-GAAP operating loss divided by revenue. Although stock-based compensation is an important aspect of the compensation of Boxs employees and executives, determining the fair value of certain of the stock-based instruments we utilize involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expense recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the vesting or future exercise of the related stock-based awards. Furthermore, unlike cash compensation, the value of stock options, which is an element of our ongoing stock-based compensation expense, is determined using a complex formula that incorporates factors, such as market volatility, that are beyond our control. For restricted share unit awards, the amount of stock-based compensation expenses is not reflective of the value ultimately received by the grant recipients. Management believes it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate comparison of our results to those of peer companies. Management also views amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, such as the amortization of the cost associated with an acquired companys research and development efforts, trade names and customer relationships, as items arising from pre-acquisition activities determined at the time of an acquisition. While these intangible assets are continually evaluated for impairment, amortization of the cost of acquired intangible assets is a static expense, one that is not typically affected by operations during any particular period. We further exclude legal settlement costs because they are considered by management to be special items outside our core operating results. Non-GAAP net loss, net loss attributable to common stock holders, and net loss per share attributable to common stockholders We define non-GAAP net loss as net loss excluding expenses related to SBC, intangible assets amortization, remeasurement of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability, and as applicable, other special items. We define non-GAAP net loss attributable to common stockholders as net loss attributable to common stockholders excluding expenses related to SBC, intangible assets amortization, remeasurement of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability, accretion of redeemable convertible preferred stock, deemed dividend on the conversion of Series F redeemable convertible preferred stock, and as applicable, other special items. We define non-GAAP net loss per share attributable to common stockholders as non-GAAP net loss attributable to common stockholders divided by the weighted average outstanding shares. We exclude remeasurement of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability, accretion of redeemable convertible preferred stock, deemed dividend on the conversion of Series F redeemable convertible preferred stock, and as applicable, other special items because they are considered by management to be outside our core operating results. Limitations on the use of Non-GAAP financial measures A limitation of our non-GAAP financial measures is that they do not have uniform definitions. Our definitions will likely differ from the definitions used by other companies, including peer companies, and therefore comparability may be limited. Thus, our non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, in the case of stock-based expense, if we did not pay a portion of compensation in the form of stock-based expense, the cash salary expense included in costs of revenue and operating expenses would be higher which would affect our cash position. We compensate for these limitations by reconciling non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most comparable GAAP financial measures. 35 Our reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 are as follows (in thousands, except per share data and percentages): Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 2014 (in thousands) GAAP operating loss $ (46,633 ) $ (37,782 ) Stock-based compensation 12,715 5,752 Intangible assets amortization 1,146 695 Amortization of capitalized legal settlement costs 186 Non-GAAP operating loss $ (32,586 ) $ (31,335 ) GAAP operating margin (71 ) % (83 ) Stock-based compensation 19 12 Intangible assets amortization 2 2 Amortization of capitalized legal settlement costs - - Non-GAAP operating margin (50 ) % (69 ) GAAP net loss $ (47,283 ) $ (38,511 ) Stock-based compensation 12,715 5,752 Intangible assets amortization 1,146 695 Amortization of capitalized legal settlement costs 186 Remeasurement of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability 267 Non-GAAP net loss $ (33,236 ) $ (31,797 ) GAAP net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (47,283 ) $ (38,554 ) Stock-based compensation 12,715 5,752 Intangible assets amortization 1,146 695 Amortization of capitalized legal settlement costs 186 Remeasurement of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability 267 Accretion of redeemable convertible preferred stock 43 Non-GAAP net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (33,236 ) $ (31,797 ) GAAP net loss per share attributable to common stockholders $ (0.40 ) $ (2.81 ) Stock-based compensation 0.11 0.42 Intangible assets amortization 0.01 0.05 Amortization of capitalized legal settlement costs Remeasurement of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability 0.02 Accretion of redeemable convertible preferred stock Non-GAAP net loss per share attributable to common stockholders $ (0.28 ) $ (2.32 ) Weighted-average shares used to compute net loss per share attributable to common stockholders, basic and diluted 119,379 13,734 36