Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and in other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Box provides an enterprise content management platform that enables organizations of all sizes to securely manage enterprise content while allowing easy, secure access and sharing of this content from anywhere, on any device. With our Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) cloud-based platform, users can collaborate on content both internally and with external parties, automate content-driven business processes, develop custom applications, and implement data protection, security and compliance features to comply with internal policies and industry regulations. Our platform enables people to securely view, share and collaborate on content, across multiple file formats and media types, without having to open a desktop application or download the content to their mobile device. The software integrates with leading enterprise business applications, and is compatible with multiple application environments, operating systems and devices, ensuring that workers have access to their critical business content whenever and wherever they need it. We were founded and publicly launched our platform in 2005 with a simple but powerful idea: to make it incredibly easy for people to securely manage, share and collaborate on their most important content online. In 2006, we introduced a free version of our product in order to rapidly grow our user base, and we surpassed one million registered users by July 2007. As users began to bring our solution into the workplace, we learned that businesses were eager for a solution to empower user-friendly content sharing and collaboration in a secure, manageable way. Starting in 2007, we began enhancing our platform to serve businesses and large enterprises, which meant expanding our business functionality with features such as our administrative console, identity integration, activity reporting and full-text search. To further satisfy the requirements of IT departments in large organizations, we began to invest heavily in enhancing the security of our platform. Also in 2007, we began to build an enterprise sales team. The continual evolution of our platform features allowed our sales team to sell into increasingly larger organizations. To empower users to work securely from anywhere, we built native applications for all major mobile platforms. The introduction of our iPad application in 2010 further accelerated enterprise adoption of our platform. In 2012, we introduced our Box OneCloud platform and our Box Embed framework to encourage developers and independent software vendors (ISVs) to build powerful applications that connect to Box, furthering the reach of the Box service. In 2015, we continued to innovate by expanding our offerings to include Box KeySafe, a solution that builds on top of Boxs strong encryption and security capabilities to give customers greater control over the encryption keys used to secure the file contents that are stored with Box; Box Governance, which gives customers a better way to comply with regulatory policies, satisfy e-discovery requests and effectively manage sensitive business information; and Box Platform, which further enables customers and partners to build enterprise apps using the Box Platform. In recent years, we have expanded our global presence, opening our first international office in London in 2012, followed by Paris and Tokyo in 2013. In 2014, we launched Box for Industries to accelerate business transformation in every major industry and we continued to expand our international presence further. We also opened offices in Amsterdam and Stockholm in 2015. We offer our solution to our customers as a subscription-based service, with subscription fees based on the requirements of our customers, including the number of users and functionality deployed. The majority of our customers subscribe to our service through one-year contracts, although we also offer our services for terms ranging from one month to three years or more. We typically invoice our customers at the beginning of the term, in multiyear, annual, quarterly or monthly installments. We recognize revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period. Our objective is to build an enduring business that creates sustainable revenue and earnings growth over the long term. To best achieve this objective, we focus on growing the number of Box users and paying organizations through direct field sales, direct inside sales, indirect channel sales and through word-of-mouth by individual users, some of whom use our services at no cost. Individual users and organizations can also simply sign up to use our solution on our website. We believe this approach not only helps us build a critical mass of users but also has a viral effect within organizations as more of their employees use our service and encourage their IT professionals to deploy our services to a broader user base. We have achieved significant growth in a short period of time. Our user base includes over 46 million registered users. We define a registered user as a Box account that has been provisioned to a unique user ID. As of April 30, 2016, over 13% of our registered users were paying users who register as part of a larger enterprise or business account or by using a personal account. We currently have over 62,000 paying organizations, and our solution is offered in 22 languages. We define paying organizations as 27 separate and distinct buying entities, such as a company, an educational or government institution, or a distinct business unit of a large corporation, that have entered into a subscription agreement with us to utilize our services. Organizations typically purchase our solution in the following ways: (i) employees in one or more small groups within the organization may individually purchase our service; (ii) organizations may purchase IT-sponsored, enterprise-level agreements with deployments for specific, targeted use cases ranging from tens to thousands of user seats; (iii) organizations may purchase IT- sponsored, enterprise-level agreements where the number of user seats sold is intended to accommodate and enable nearly all information workers within the organization in whatever use cases they desire to adopt over the term of the subscription; or (iv) organizations may purchase our Box Platform service to create custom business applications for their own extended ecosystem of customers, suppliers and partners. We intend to continue scaling our organization to meet the increasingly complex needs of our customers. Our sales and customer success teams are organized to efficiently serve organizations ranging from small businesses to the worlds largest global organizations. We have invested and expect to continue to invest heavily in our sales and marketing teams to sell our services around the world, as well as in our development efforts to deliver additional features and capabilities of our cloud services to address our customers evolving needs. We also expect to continue to make significant investments in both our datacenter infrastructure to meet the needs of our growing user base and our professional services (Box Consulting) organization to address the strategic needs of our customers in more complex deployments and to drive broader adoption across a wide array of use cases. As a result of our continuing investments to scale our business in each of these areas, we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future. For the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, our revenue was $90.2 million, and $65.6 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 37%, and our net losses were $38.6 million and $47.3 million, respectively. For the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, revenue from non-U.S. customers represented 17% and 20% of our revenue, respectively. Box is headquartered in Redwood City, California and operates offices in California, New York, Texas, Amsterdam, London, Paris, Stockholm and Tokyo. Our Business Model Our business model focuses on maximizing the lifetime value of a customer relationship. We make significant investments in acquiring new customers and believe that we will be able to achieve a positive return on these investments by retaining customers and expanding the size of our deployments within our customer base over time. In connection with the acquisition of new customers, we incur and recognize significant upfront costs. These costs include sales and marketing costs associated with acquiring new customers, such as sales commission expenses, a significant portion of which is expensed upfront and the remaining portion of which is expensed over the length of the non-cancellable subscription term, and marketing costs, which are expensed as incurred. Due to our subscription model, we recognize revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period, which commences when all of the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Although our objective is for each customer to be profitable for us over the duration of our relationship, the costs we incur with respect to any customer relationship, whether a new customer or an expansion within an existing customer, may exceed revenue in earlier periods because we recognize those costs faster than we recognize the associated revenue. Because of these dynamics, we experience a range of profitability with our customers depending in large part upon what stage of the customer phase they are in. We generally incur higher sales and marketing expenses for new customers and existing customers who are still in an expanding stage. For new customers, our associated sales and marketing expenses typically exceed the first year revenue we recognize from those customers. For customers who are expanding their use of Box, we incur various associated marketing expenses as well as sales commission expenses, though we typically recognize higher revenue than sales and marketing expenses. For typical customers who are renewing their Box subscriptions, our associated sales and marketing expenses are significantly less than the revenue we recognize from those customers. These differences are primarily driven by the higher compensation we provide to our sales force for new customers and customer subscription expansions compared to the compensation we provide to our sales force for routine subscription renewals by customers. In addition, our sales and marketing expenses, other than the compensation we provide to our sales force, are generally higher for acquiring new customers versus expansions or renewals of existing customer subscriptions. We believe that, over time, as our existing customer base grows and a relatively higher percentage of our revenue is attributable to renewals versus new or expanding Box deployments, we will experience lower associated sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue. 28 Key Business Metrics We use these key metrics for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe that these key metrics provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance. We believe that both management and investors benefit from referring to these key metrics in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. These key metrics also facilitate management's internal comparisons to our historical performance as well as comparisons to our competitors' operating results. We believe these key metrics are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. April 30, 2016 2015 Billings (in thousands) $ 75,926 $ 69,765 Billings growth rate 9 % 58 % Free cash flow (in thousands) (16,156 ) (17,311 ) Retention rate (period end) 116 % 123 % Billings Billings represent our revenue plus the change in deferred revenue in the period. Billings we record in any particular period reflect sales to new customers plus subscription renewals and expansion within existing customers, and represent amounts invoiced for all of our products and professional services. We typically invoice our customers at the beginning of the term, in multiyear, annual, quarterly or monthly installments. If the customer elects to pay the full subscription amount at the beginning of the period, the total subscription amount for the entire term will be reflected in billings. If the customer elects to be invoiced annually or more frequently, only the amount billed for such period will be included in billings. We calculate billings for a period by adding changes in deferred revenue in that period to revenue. Billings help investors better understand our sales activity for a particular period, which is not necessarily reflected in our revenue as a result of the fact that we recognize subscription revenue ratably over the subscription term. We consider billings a significant performance measure and after adjusting for any shifts in relative payment frequencies, a leading indicator of future revenue. We monitor billings to manage our business, make planning decisions, evaluate our performance and allocate resources. We believe that billings offers valuable supplemental information regarding the performance of our business and will help investors better understand the sales volumes and performance of our business. Although we consider billings to be a significant performance measure, we do not consider it to be a non-GAAP financial measure given that it is calculated using exclusively revenue and deferred revenue, both of which are financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Billings increased 9% in the three months ended April 30, 2016 over three months ended April 30, 2015. The increase in billings was primarily driven by the addition of new customers with larger initial deployments and expansion of the number of users within existing customers . For the three months ended April 30, 2016, our year-over-year billings growth rate was adversely impacted by early renewals by existing customers in the quarter ended January 31, 2016, our increased focus on annual payment frequency, and increased seasonality in our business. For the remainder of fiscal year 2017, we expect to continue focusing on standardizing on annual payment frequencies which, over time, we anticipate will mitigate fluctuations in billings which are not correlated to future revenue. This shift will not alter related revenue recognition or the related growth rates of revenue; however, to the extent we see a relatively lower percentage of multi-year pre-payments as a result, this shift will naturally cause billings growth to decelerate faster than we would expect revenue growth for the year to decelerate. In addition, as we have gained and expect to continue to gain more traction with large enterprise customers, we also anticipate our quarterly billings to increasingly concentrate in the back half of our fiscal year; especially in the fourth quarter. Therefore, while billings continue to be a key business metric for the Company, we expect the relationship between billings and revenue in the remainder of fiscal year 2017 to be different from the correlation in more recent years and, therefore, past results are not expected to be indicative of future results; particularly in the quarterly periods throughout the year. Specifically, we expect our billings growth rate to decelerate faster than we expect revenue growth rates to decelerate. Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as cash provided by (used in) operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, principal payments of capital lease obligations, and other items that did not or are not expected to require cash settlement and which management considers to be outside of our core business. We specifically identify other adjusting items in our reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. Historically, these items have included restricted cash used to guarantee a significant letter of credit 29 for our Redwood City headquarters. We consider free cash flow to be a profitability and liquidity measure that provides useful info rmation to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that can possibly be used for investing in our business and strengthening the balance sheet; but it is not intended to represent the residual cash flow available for di scretionary expenditures. Our free cash flow was ($16,156) and ($17,311) for the three month ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. A reconciliation of free cash flow to cash provided by (used in) operating activities, its nearest GAAP equivalent, is presented in the non-GAAP Financial Measures section of this report. The presentation of free cash flow is also not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. Retention Rate We calculate our retention rate as of a period end by starting with the annual contract value (ACV) from customers with contract value of $5,000 or more as of 12 months prior to such period end (Prior Period ACV) and a subscription term of at least 12 months. We then calculate ACV from these same customers as of the current period end (Current Period ACV). Finally, we divide the aggregate Current Period ACV for the trailing 12 month period by the aggregate Prior Period ACV for the trailing 12 month period to arrive at our retention rate. We believe our retention rate is an important metric that provides insight into the long-term value of our subscription agreements and our ability to retain and grow revenue from our customer base. We focus on contracts that have a value of $5,000 or more because, over time, these customers give us the best indicator for the growth of our business and the potential for incremental business as they renew and expand their deployments, and contracts with these customers represented a substantial majority of our revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2016. Retention rate is an operational metric and there is no comparable GAAP financial measure to which we can reconcile this particular key metric. Our retention rate was approximately 116% and 123% as of April 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The calculation of our retention rate reflects both net user expansion and the loss of customers who do not renew their subscriptions with us, which was below 5% for enterprise customers of the Prior Period ACV for the three months ended April 30, 2016. Our retention rates consistently exceeded 100% and were primarily attributable to an increase in user expansion, from both enterprise and small and medium business customers. We believe our investments in product, Customer Success, and Box Consulting are driving improvements in customer retention. As we penetrate customer accounts, we expect our rate of growth in expansion to trend down over time but our retention rate to remain above 100% for the foreseeable future. Reconciliation of Billings to Revenue To provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results, we have disclosed in the table above and within this report billings, a key financial metric. We have provided a reconciliation below of billings to revenue, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We consider billings, after adjusting for any shifts in relative payment frequencies, a significant performance measure and a leading indicator of future revenue. Billings also help investors better understand our sales activity for a particular period, which is not necessarily reflected in our revenue as a result of the fact that we recognize subscription revenue ratably over the subscription term. We monitor billings to manage our business, make planning decisions, evaluate our performance and allocate resources. Our use of billings has the following limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for revenue or an analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Billings are recognized when invoiced, while the related revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the subscription or premier support services. When we invoice customers more frequently than their subscription period, amounts not yet invoiced will not be reflected in deferred revenue or billings. Also, other companies, including companies in our industry, may not use billings, may calculate billings differently, may have different billing frequencies, or may use other financial measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of billings as a comparative measure. A reconciliation of billings to revenue, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, is presented below (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 GAAP revenue $ 90,155 $ 65,621 Deferred revenue, end of period 172,184 124,201 Less: deferred revenue, beginning of period (186,413 ) (120,057 ) Billings $ 75,926 $ 69,765 30 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive our revenue from three sources: (1) subscription revenue, which is comprised of subscription fees from customers utilizing our cloud-based enterprise content management platform and other subscription-based services, which all include routine customer support; (2) revenue from customers purchasing our premier support package; and (3) revenue from professional services such as implementing best practice use cases, project management and implementation consulting services. To date, practically all of our revenue has been derived from subscription and premier support services. Subscription and premier support revenue is driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of seats sold to each customer and the price of our services. Subscription and premier support revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the later of the date the service is provisioned to the customer and the date all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Our subscription and support contracts are typically non-cancellable and do not contain refund-type provisions. The majority of our customers subscribe to our service through one-year contracts, although we also offer our services for terms ranging between one month to three years or more. We typically invoice our customers at the beginning of the term, in multiyear, annual, quarterly or monthly installments. Amounts that have been invoiced are initially recorded as deferred revenue and are recognized ratably over the invoice period. Amounts that have not been invoiced are not reflected in deferred revenue. Professional services revenue is recognized as the services are rendered for time and material contracts, and using the proportional performance method over the period the services are performed for fixed price contracts. Professional services revenue was not material for all periods presented. Revenue is presented net of sales and other taxes we collect on behalf of governmental authorities. Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue consists primarily of costs related to providing our cloud-based services to our paying customers, including employee compensation and related expenses for datacenter operations, customer support and professional services personnel, payments to outside infrastructure service providers, depreciation of servers and equipment, security services and other tools, as well as amortization of acquired technology. We allocate overhead such as rent, information technology costs and employee benefit costs to all departments based on headcount. As such, general overhead expenses are reflected in cost of revenue and each of the operating expense categories set forth below. We expect our cost of revenue to increase in dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenue as we continue to invest in our datacenter operations and customer support to support the growth of our business, our customer base, as well as our international expansion. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of each category of operating expenses. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities, information technology costs and employee benefit costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, as well as allocated overhead. Our research and development efforts are focused on scaling our platform, adding enterprise grade features, functionality and security, and enhancing the ease of use of our cloud-based services. We expect our research and development expense to increase in dollars but decrease as a percentage of revenue over time, as we continue to invest in our future products and services. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, sales commissions, marketing programs, travel -related expenses, as well as allocated overhead. Marketing programs include but are not limited to advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building, and product marketing. Sales and marketing expense also consists of datacenter and customer support costs related to providing our cloud-based services to our free users. We market and sell our cloud-based services worldwide through our direct sales organization and through indirect distribution channels such as strategic resellers. We expect our sales and marketing expense to continue to increase in dollars but decrease as a percentage of revenue over time as we increase the size of our sales and marketing organization and expand our international presence. General and Administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses for administrative functions including finance, legal, human resources, recruiting, information systems and fees for external professional services and cloud based enterprise systems as well as allocated overhead. External professional services fees are 31 primarily comprised of outside legal, litigation, accounting, temporary services, audit and outsourcing services. We expect our general and adm inistrative expense to increase in dollars but decrease as a percentage of revenue over time as we incur additional costs related to operating as a publicly-traded company including systems, audit, legal, regulatory and other related fees. Interest Expense, Net Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. We have historically invested our cash in overnight deposits and short-term, investment-grade corporate debt and asset-backed securities. Interest expense consists of interest charges, fees on letters of credit and the amortization of capitalized debt issuance costs associated with our outstanding borrowings. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of gains and losses from foreign currency transactions and other income (expense). Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business and state income taxes in the United States, offset, when applicable, by the tax benefit recognized from the release of our valuation allowance in connection with certain acquisitions. 32 Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented in dollars and as a percentage of our revenue: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 90,155 $ 65,621 Cost of revenue(1)(2) 27,859 17,153 Gross profit 62,296 48,468 Operating expenses: Research and development(2) 26,907 23,134 Sales and marketing(2) 59,472 56,495 General and administrative(1)(2) 14,509 15,472 Total operating expenses 100,888 95,101 Loss from operations (38,592 ) (46,633 ) Interest expense, net (176 ) (514 ) Other income (expense), net 441 (77 ) Loss before provision for income taxes (38,327 ) (47,224 ) Provision for income taxes 248 59 Net loss $ (38,575 ) $ (47,283 ) (1) Includes intangible assets amortization as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 1,420 $ 1,107 General and administrative 39 39 Total intangible assets amortization $ 1,459 $ 1,146 (2) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 1,512 $ 851 Research and development 6,524 5,263 Sales and marketing 5,230 4,283 General and administrative 2,823 2,318 Total stock-based compensation $ 16,089 $ 12,715 33 Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Percentage of Revenue: Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue(1)(2) 31 26 Gross profit 69 74 Operating expenses: Research and development(2) 30 35 Sales and marketing(2) 66 86 General and administrative(1)(2) 16 24 Total operating expenses 112 145 Loss from operations (43 ) (71 ) Interest expense, net (1 ) Other income (expense), net Loss before provision for income taxes (43 ) (72 ) Provision for income taxes Net loss (43 ) % (72 ) % (1) Includes intangible assets amortization as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Cost of revenue 2 % 2 % General and administrative Total intangible assets amortization 2 % 2 % (2) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 Cost of revenue 2 % 1 % Research and development 7 8 Sales and marketing 6 7 General and administrative 3 3 Total stock-based compensation 18 % 19 % Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 90,155 $ 65,621 $ 24,534 37 % Revenue was $90.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, compared to $65.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015, representing an increase of $24.5 million, or 37%. The increase in revenue was primarily driven by an increase in subscription services. The increase in subscription services was due to the addition of new customers, as the number of paying organizations increased by more than 30% from April 30, 2015 to 2016. Also in this period, we experienced increased renewals from, and expansion within, existing customers as they broadened their deployment of our product offerings, as reflected in our retention rate of 116% as of April 30, 2016. 34 Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 27,859 $ 17,153 $ 10,706 62 % Percentage of revenue 31 % 26 % Cost of revenue was $27.9 million, or 31% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2016, compared to $17.2 million, or 26% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2015, representing an increase of $10.7 million, or 62%. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $0.8 million in allocated costs attributable mainly to increased facilities and infrastructure costs, an increase of $1.9 million in employee and related costs, and an increase of $1.0 million in stock-based compensation expense primarily driven by the increase in headcount in our datacenter operations, customer support, and in our Box Consulting functions. Headcount in these functions grew from 185 employees as of April 30, 2015 to 225 employees as of April 30, 2016. In addition, there was an increase of $2.5 million in datacenter service costs, an increase of $1.7 million in depreciation of our server equipment, an increase of $0.7 million in enterprise subscription software expenses, and an increase in investments for our growing paid users. Cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue increased 5 points year-over-year primarily due to our continued investments in our data center infrastructure and Box Consulting to support our expected growth in paying customers and new products. Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 26,907 $ 23,134 $ 3,773 16 % Percentage of revenue 30 % 35 % Research and development expenses were $26.9 million, or 30% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2016, compared to $23.1 million, or 35% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2015, representing an increase of $3.8 million, or 16%. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $1.7 million in allocated costs attributable mainly to increased facilities and infrastructure costs, an increase of $1.3 million in stock-based compensation expense and an increase of $1.0 million in employee and related costs primarily due to the timing of key new hires in the platform and engineering functions during fiscal year 2016. Despite an increase in absolute dollars spent, research and development expense as a percentage of revenue decreased 5 points year over year. While we continued to invest in our product and service offerings and bring new products to general availability and further differentiate our offerings, we were able to do so at a lower percentage of revenue year over year by leveraging our growing revenue. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 59,472 $ 56,495 $ 2,977 5 % Percentage of revenue 66 % 86 % Sales and marketing expenses were $59.5 million, or 66% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2016, compared to $56.5 million, or 86% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2015, representing an increase of $3.0 million, or 5%. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to an increase of $1.4 million in allocated costs attributable mainly to increased facilities and infrastructure costs, an increase of $2.8 million in employee and related costs, and an increase of $1.3 million in stock-based compensation expense primarily driven by the increase in headcount from 578 employees as of April 30, 2015 to 595 employees as of April 30, 2016 and the timing of key new hires in the sales function. The increase was partially offset by a $1.8 million decrease in datacenter and customer support costs to support our free users and a $0.6 million decrease in marketing events. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased 20 points year over year due to improved marketing efficiency, as our sales and marketing expenses are generally higher for acquiring new customers versus expansions or renewals of existing customer subscriptions, and a decrease in relative cost to support our free users. Over time, as our existing customer base grows and a 35 relatively higher percentage of our revenue is attributable to renewals versus new or expanding Box deployments, we expect that sales and marketing expenses will decrease as a percentage of revenue. We continue to invest aggressively to capture our large market opportunity and capitalize on our competitive position, while growing our productivity and efficiency to achieve our long-term margin objectives. General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 14,509 $ 15,472 $ (963 ) (6)% Percentage of revenue 16 % 24 % General and administrative expenses were $14.5 million, or 16% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2016, compared to $15.5 million, or 24% of revenue, for the three months ended April 30, 2015, representing a decrease of $1.0 million, or 6%. The decrease in absolute dollars was primarily due to a decrease of $2.8 million in litigation related expenses and a decrease of $0.5 million in outside consulting services. The decrease in litigation related expenses includes the net income of $1.7 million recorded in the three months ended April 30, 2016 for the Open Text settlement. This was offset by an increase in employee and related costs of $2.5 million as we increased our general and administrative headcount from 170 employees as of April 30, 2015 to 221 employees as of April 30, 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (4,231 ) $ (32,182 ) Net cash used in investing activities (4,386 ) (113,280 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 5,452 (4,980 ) As of April 30, 2016, we had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $183.4 million. Our cash and cash equivalents are comprised primarily of overnight cash deposits and our marketable securities consisted of asset-backed securities. We have generated significant operating losses and negative cash flows from operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit and consolidated statements of cash flows. We may continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations in the future and may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. Since our inception, we have financed our operations primarily through equity, cash generated from sales and, to a lesser extent, debt financing. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with our marketable securities and credit facilities, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, subscription renewal activity, billing frequency, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing and international operation activities, the introduction of new and enhanced services offerings, and the continuing market acceptance of our services. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. In December 2015, we entered into a new revolving credit facility with a different lender (December 2015 Facility). The December 2015 Facility provides for a revolving loan facility in the amount of up to $40.0 million maturing in December 2017. The December 2015 Facility is denominated in U.S. dollars and, depending on certain conditions, each borrowing is subject to a floating interest rate equal to either t he prime rate plus a spread of 0.25% to 2.75% or a reserve adjusted LIBOR rate (based on one, three or six-month interest periods) plus a spread of 1.25% to 3.75%. Although no minimum deposit is required for the December 2015 Facility, we are eligible for the lowest interest rate if we maintain at least $40 million in deposits with the lender . In addition, there is an annual fee of 0.2% on the total commitment amount. At closing, we drew $40.0 million at 1.82% (six month LIBOR plus 1.25%) which we used repay the outstanding principal balance under the August 2013 Facility. Borrowings under the December 2015 Facility are collateralized by substantially all of our assets in the United States. It also contains various covenants, including covenants related 36 to the delivery of financial and other information, the maintenance of quarterly financial cove nants, as well as customary limitations on dispositions, mergers or consolidations and other corporate activities. Operating Activities For the three months ended April 30, 2016, cash used in operating activities was $4.2 million, or $0.5 million after excluding a $3.8 million payment related to a legal settlement. The primary factor affecting our operating cash flows during this period was our net loss of $38.6 million, partially offset by the non-cash charges of $33.1 million and changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $1.3 million. Non-cash charges consisted primarily of $16.1 million for stock-based compensation, $12.1 million for depreciation and amortization of our property and equipment and intangible assets, and $4.8 million for amortization of deferred commissions. The primary drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $41.9 million decrease in accounts receivable, partially offset by a $26.4 million decrease in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and a $14.2 million decrease in deferred revenue. The decrease in accounts receivable was due to the seasonality of our business and reflects collections primarily from the sales attributable to the three months ended January 31, 2016. The decrease in deferred revenue was primarily driven by increasing seasonality in our sales cycle and our continued focus on annual payment durations over multi-year prepayments. The decrease in deferred commissions was due to increased seasonality. The decrease in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities was primarily attributable to seasonality where we are settling accrued compensation and benefits, including commissions and bonuses, attributable to the three months ended January 31, 2016. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities of $4.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 was primarily due to $11.0 million of capital expenditures, including $9 million related to our new Redwood City headquarters, partially offset by $6.6 million of proceeds from maturities of marketable securities. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities of $5.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 was primarily due to $9.0 million proceeds from issuances of common stock under the 2015 ESPP and $2.2 million proceeds from exercise of stock options, partially offset by $4.8 million of employee payroll taxes paid related to net share settlement of restricted stock units and $0.9 million of payments of capital lease obligations. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of April 30, 2016: Payments Due by Period (in thousands) Less Than 1 More Than Total Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years 5 Years Debt(1) $ 41,243 $ 808 $ 40,435 $ $ Operating lease obligations, net of sublease income amounts (2) 266,487 16,309 38,751 48,126 163,301 Capital leases(3) 16,538 7,230 9,308 Purchase obligations(4) 23,892 19,859 4,033 Total $ 348,160 $ 44,206 $ 92,527 $ 48,126 $ 163,301 (1) Includes interest and unused commitment fee on our line of credit. (2) Includes operating lease obligations for our buildings. As of April 30, 2016, we anticipated receiving sublease income of $15.9 million over the next three years from tenants in certain of our leased facilities. The amounts set forth in the table above are net of these sublease income amounts. (3) Includes obligations related to our datacenter hardware. (4) Purchase obligations relate primarily to datacenter operations and sales marketing activities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Through April 30, 2016, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 37 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended April 30, 2016 from those disclosed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2016. Recent Accounting Pronouncement See Part I, Item 1. Financial StatementsNote 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for information regarding the effect of new accounting pronouncements on our financial statements. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation S-K Item 10(e), Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Commission Filings, defines and prescribes the conditions for use of non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of non-GAAP operating loss, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP net loss per share, and free cash flow (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures) each meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. We use these non-GAAP financial measures and key metrics for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures and key metrics provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance by excluding certain expenses that may not be indicative of our recurring core business operating results. We believe that both management and investors benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures and key metrics in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures and key metrics also facilitate management's internal comparisons to our historical performance as well as comparisons to our competitors' operating results. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures and key metrics are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. Non-GAAP operating loss and operating margin We define non-GAAP operating loss as operating loss excluding expenses related to stock-based compensation (SBC), intangible assets amortization, and as applicable, other special items. Non-GAAP operating margin is defined as non-GAAP operating loss divided by revenue. Although stock-based compensation is an important aspect of the compensation of Boxs employees and executives, determining the fair value of certain of the stock-based instruments we utilize involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expense recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the vesting or future exercise of the related stock-based awards. Furthermore, unlike cash compensation, the value of stock options, which is an element of our ongoing stock-based compensation expense, is determined using a complex formula that incorporates factors, such as market volatility, that are beyond our control. For restricted stock unit awards, the amount of stock-based compensation expenses is not reflective of the value ultimately received by the grant recipients. Management believes it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate comparison of our results to those of peer companies. Management also views amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, such as the amortization of the cost associated with an acquired companys developed technology and trade names, as items arising from pre-acquisition activities determined at the time of an acquisition. While these intangible assets are continually evaluated for impairment, amortization of the cost of purchased intangibles is a static expense, one that is not typically affected by operations during any particular period. We further exclude expenses related to certain litigation because they are considered by management to be special items outside our core operating results. Non-GAAP net loss, and net loss per share We define non-GAAP net loss as net loss excluding expenses related to SBC, intangible assets amortization, remeasurement of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability, and as applicable, other special items. We define non-GAAP net loss as net loss excluding expenses related to SBC, intangible assets amortization, remeasurement of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability, accretion of redeemable convertible preferred stock, deemed dividend on the conversion of Series F redeemable convertible preferred stock, and as applicable, other special items. We define non-GAAP net loss per share as non-GAAP net loss divided by the weighted average outstanding shares. We exclude remeasurement of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant 38 liability, accretion of redeemable convertible preferred stock, deemed dividend on the conversion of Series F redeemable convertible preferred stock, and as applicable, other special items because they are considere d by management to be outside our core operating results. Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as cash provided by (used in) operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, principal payments of capital lease obligations, and other items that did not or are not expected to require cash settlement and which management considers to be outside of our core business. We specifically identify other adjusting items in our reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP financial measures. Historically, these items have included restricted cash used to guarantee a significant letter of credit for Box's Redwood City headquarters. We consider free cash flow to be a profitability and liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that can possibly be used for investing in our business and strengthening the balance sheet; but it is not intended to represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. A reconciliation of free cash flow to cash provided by (used in) operating activities, its nearest GAAP equivalent, is presented in the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of this report. The presentation of free cash flow is also not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. Limitations on the use of non-GAAP financial measures A limitation of our non-GAAP financial measures is that they do not have uniform definitions. Our definitions will likely differ from the definitions used by other companies, including peer companies, and therefore comparability may be limited. Thus, our non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, in the case of stock-based expense, if we did not pay a portion of compensation in the form of stock-based expense, the cash salary expense included in costs of revenue and operating expenses would be higher which would affect our cash position. We compensate for these limitations by reconciling non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most comparable GAAP financial measures. 39 Our reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures for the three months ended April 30, 20 16 and 2015 are as follows (in thousands, except per share data and percentages): April 30, 2016 2015 (in thousands) GAAP operating loss $ (38,592 ) $ (46,633 ) Stock-based compensation 16,089 12,715 Intangible assets amortization 1,459 1,146 Expenses related to a legal verdict(1) (1,664 ) 186 Non-GAAP operating loss $ (22,708 ) $ (32,586 ) GAAP operating margin (43 ) % (71 ) % Stock-based compensation 18 19 Intangible assets amortization 2 2 Expenses related to a legal verdict(1) (2 ) Non-GAAP operating margin (25 ) % (50 ) % GAAP net loss $ (38,575 ) $ (47,283 ) Stock-based compensation 16,089 12,715 Intangible assets amortization 1,459 1,146 Expenses related to a legal verdict(1) (1,664 ) 186 Non-GAAP net loss $ (22,691 ) $ (33,236 ) GAAP net loss per share, basic and diluted $ (0.31 ) $ (0.40 ) Stock-based compensation 0.13 0.11 Intangible assets amortization 0.01 0.01 Expenses related to a legal verdict(1) (0.01 ) Non-GAAP net loss per share, basic and diluted $ (0.18 ) $ (0.28 ) Weighted-average shares outstanding, basic and diluted $ 124,932 $ 119,379 GAAP net cash used in operating activities $ (4,231 ) $ (32,182 ) Restricted cash used to guarantee a letter of credit for Redwood City HQ 25,000 Purchases of property and equipment (10,976 ) (9,901 ) Payments of capital lease obligations (949 ) (228 ) Free cash flow $ (16,156 ) $ (17,311 ) (1) Included in general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. 40