Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or Form 10-Q, and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended October 30, 2016 , or fiscal year 2016 , included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2016 , or 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to Broadcom, we, our and us mean Broadcom Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Broadcom Cayman L.P. References to the Partnership mean Broadcom Cayman L.P. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Financial information and results of operations presented in this Form 10-Q for periods prior to February 1, 2016 relate to Avago Technologies Limited, our predecessor, or Avago, and relate to Broadcom and the Partnership for the period after February 1, 2016, the date of completion of our acquisition of Broadcom Corporation, or BRCM, and Avago. This Form 10-Q may contain predictions, estimates and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties, which are made under the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements may include projections of financial information; statements about historical results that may suggest trends for our business; statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations; statements of expectation or belief regarding future events (including any acquisitions we may make), technology developments, our products, product sales, expenses, liquidity, cash flow and growth rates, customer concentration and relationships, or enforceability of our intellectual property rights, or IP; and the effects of seasonality on our business. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections of our or industry performance and macroeconomic conditions, based on managements judgment, beliefs, current trends and market conditions, and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We derive most of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known factors, and it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. Accordingly, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q, and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. All of the forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors listed above and those discussed under the heading Risk Factors below. We undertake no intent or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. Overview We are a leading designer, developer and global supplier of a broad range of semiconductor devices with a focus on complex digital and mixed signal complementary metal oxide semiconductor based devices and analog III-V based products. We have a history of innovation and offer thousands of products that are used in end products such as enterprise and data center networking, home connectivity, set-top boxes, broadband access, telecommunication equipment, smartphones and base stations, data center servers and storage systems, factory automation, power generation and alternative energy systems, and electronic displays. We have four reportable segments: wired infrastructure, wireless communications, enterprise storage and industrial & other, which align with our principal target markets. Broadcom Cayman L.P., or the Partnership, is an exempted limited partnership formed under the laws of the Cayman Islands in order to effect the business combination between Avago and BRCM. Broadcom is the Partnerships sole General Partner and currently owns a majority interest (by vote and value) in the Partnership. The acquisition of BRCM, or the Broadcom Merger, closed on February 1, 2016. Recent Developments and Highlights Highlights during the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 include the following: Our cash and cash equivalents were $3,536 million at January 29, 2017 , compared with $3,097 million at October 30, 2016 . We generated $1,353 million of cash from operations during the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 . Broadcom paid aggregate cash dividends on its ordinary shares of $408 million , and the Partnership made aggregate distributions of $23 million on its restricted exchangeable limited partnership units, or Partnership REUs, during the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 . On January 19, 2017, two Broadcom subsidiaries completed the issuance and sale of senior unsecured notes, or the Senior Notes, in an aggregate principal amount of $13,550 million. The net proceeds, together with cash on hand, 31 Table of Contents were used to repay all of the outstanding term loans under our guaranteed, collateralized credit agreement entered into on February 1, 2016, or the 2016 Credit Agreement, in the aggregate amount of $13,555 million . As a result, during fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 , we wrote-off $159 million of debt issuance costs, which were included in loss on extinguishment of debt in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Acquisition & Divestitures Pending Acquisition of Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. On November 2, 2016, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Brocade Agreement, by and among Broadcom, BRCM, Brocade Communications Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or Brocade, and Bobcat Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of BRCM, or Merger Sub. On December 18, 2016, BRCM assigned all of its rights and obligations under the Brocade Agreement and transferred all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Merger Sub to LSI Corporation, or LSI. The Brocade Agreement provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein, Merger Sub will merge with and into Brocade with Brocade as the surviving corporation, or the Brocade Acquisition. As a result of the Brocade Acquisition, Brocade will become an indirect subsidiary of Broadcom and the Partnership. Under the Brocade Agreement, at the effective time of the Brocade Acquisition, each issued and outstanding share of Brocade common stock held by Brocade stockholders who do not perfect their appraisal rights with respect to the Brocade Acquisition will be converted into the right to receive $12.75 in cash, without interest. As of November 2, 2016, the Brocade Acquisition was valued at approximately $5.5 billion . We intend to finance the transaction with cash on hand from both companies and new debt financing. We will also assume certain vested (to the extent not in-the-money) and all unvested Brocade stock options, restricted stock units, or RSUs, and performance stock units held by continuing employees and service providers. All vested in-the-money Brocade stock options, after giving effect to any acceleration, and all other RSUs and performance stock units will be cashed out at the effective time of the Brocade Acquisition. Consummation of the Brocade Acquisition is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the United States Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, the receipt of regulatory clearance under certain other laws and the absence of certain pending governmental litigation with respect to the transactions contemplated by the Brocade Agreement. The Brocade Agreement contains certain termination rights for us and Brocade, and further provides that, upon termination of the Brocade Agreement under certain specified circumstances, Brocade will be obligated to pay us a termination fee of $195 million . We currently expect the Brocade Acquisition to close in our third fiscal quarter ending July 30, 2017. Pending Divestiture of Brocades IP Networking Business Under the Brocade Agreement, Brocade has agreed to cooperate with us to facilitate the sale, disposition or other transfer of its IP Networking business, including its recently acquired Ruckus Wireless business. The consummation of the Brocade Acquisition is not conditioned on the divestiture of Brocades IP Networking business. On February 22, 2017, we announced our agreement to sell a portion of Brocades IP Networking business, including the Ruckus Wireless and ICX Switch businesses, to ARRIS International plc for cash consideration of $800 million , plus the additional cost of unvested assumed employee stock awards. The closing is subject to regulatory approvals in various jurisdictions and other customary closing conditions but does not require shareholder approval by either company, is not subject to any financing conditions, and is currently expected to close approximately one month following the closing of the Brocade Acquisition. This transaction is contingent on the closing of the Brocade Acquisition. 32 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the accrual of costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual financial results may differ materially and adversely from our estimates. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our historical financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies include revenue recognition, business combinations, valuation of long-lived assets, intangible assets and goodwill, inventory valuation, income taxes, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan assumptions, share-based compensation, and employee bonus programs. There were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies during the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 compared to those previously disclosed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 33 Table of Contents Results of Operations Fiscal Quarter Ended January 29, 2017 Compared to Fiscal Quarter Ended January 31, 2016 The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented: Fiscal Quarter Ended January 29, 2017 January 31, 2016 January 29, 2017 January 31, 2016 (In millions) (As a percentage of net revenue) Statements of Operations Data: Net revenue $ 4,139 $ 1,771 100 % 100 % Cost of products sold: Cost of products sold 1,573 699 38 40 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 559 130 14 7 Restructuring charges 6 1 Total cost of products sold 2,138 830 52 47 Gross margin 2,001 941 48 53 Research and development 808 267 19 15 Selling, general and administrative 201 114 5 6 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 440 54 11 3 Restructuring, impairment and disposal charges 46 31 1 2 Total operating expenses 1,495 466 36 26 Operating income $ 506 $ 475 12 % 27 % Net Revenue Our overall net revenue, as well as the percentage of total net revenue generated by sales in each of our segments, has varied from quarter to quarter, due largely to fluctuations in end-market demand, including the effects of seasonality, which is discussed in detail below under Seasonality. Historically, a relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. Direct sales to Foxconn Technology Group companies (including Hon Hai Precision Industries), together referred to as Foxconn, accounted for 15% of our net revenue for each of the fiscal quarter s ended January 29, 2017 and January 31, 2016 . Direct sales to Apple Inc. accounted for 10% of our net revenue during the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 . We believe our aggregate sales to Apple Inc., when our direct sales to it are combined with our sales to the contract manufacturers that it utilizes (which include Foxconn), accounted for more than 15% of our net revenue for both the fiscal quarter s ended January 29, 2017 and January 31, 2016 . For the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 , our top 10 direct customers collectively accounted for 55% of our net revenue and included four distributors. For the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 , our top 10 direct customers collectively accounted for 56% of our net revenue and included three distributors. From time to time, some of our key customers place large orders or delay orders, causing our quarterly net revenue to fluctuate significantly. This is particularly true in our wireless communications segment as fluctuations may be magnified by the launches of, and seasonal variations in, sales of mobile handsets, as well as changes in the overall economic environment. In recent years, approximately 50% of our net revenue has come from sales to distributors, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and contract manufacturers located in China. However, the end-customers for our products, or for the end products into which our products are incorporated, are frequently located in countries other than China. As a result, we believe that a substantially smaller percentage of our net revenue is ultimately dependent on sales of either our product, or our customers product incorporating our product, to end customers located in China. 34 Table of Contents The following tables set forth net revenue by segment for the periods presented: Fiscal Quarter Ended Net Revenue January 29, 2017 January 31, 2016 $ Change % Change (In millions, except for percentages) Wired infrastructure $ 2,084 $ 386 $ 1,698 440 % Wireless communications 1,175 578 597 103 % Enterprise storage 707 678 29 4 % Industrial & other 173 129 44 34 % Total net revenue $ 4,139 $ 1,771 $ 2,368 134 % Fiscal Quarter Ended % of Net Revenue January 29, 2017 January 31, 2016 Wired infrastructure 50% 22% Wireless communications 29 33 Enterprise storage 17 38 Industrial & other 4 7 Total net revenue 100% 100% Total net revenue increased primarily due to the contributions from acquired BRCM products. Net revenue from our wired infrastructure and wireless communications segments increased primarily due to the contributions from acquired BRCM products included in these segments. Net revenue from our enterprise storage segment increased primarily due to an increase in demand for our hard disk drive, or HDD, products and custom solid state drive controller products. Net revenue from our industrial & other segment increased primarily due to an increase in demand for our optocoupler products. Our total net revenue also included $119 million from development arrangements and sales and licensing of IP, compared to $82 million in the corresponding prior year period, which primarily benefited our wired infrastructure segment. Gross Margin Gross margin was $2,001 million for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 compared to $941 million for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 . This $1,060 million increase was primarily due to contributions to our wired infrastructure and wireless communications segments from acquired BRCM products. As a percentage of net revenue, gross margin was 48% and 53% for the fiscal quarters ended January 29, 2017 and January 31, 2016 , respectively. The 5% decrease in gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was largely due to the $429 million increase in amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets associated with the Broadcom Merger. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense increased $541 million , or 203% , for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 compared to the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 . Research and development expense as a percentage of net revenue was 19% for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 compared to 15% for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 . This overall increase in research and development expense both in dollars and as a percentage of net revenue, was primarily due to the Broadcom Merger. Share-based compensation included in research and development expense increased due to integration equity awards granted to employees acquired in, and RSUs assumed in, the Broadcom Merger, as well as annual employee equity awards at higher grant-date fair values. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense increased $87 million , or 76% , for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 , compared to the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 . Selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net revenue was 5% for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 compared to 6% for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 . This overall increase in selling, general and administrative expense dollars was primarily due to the Broadcom Merger. Share-based compensation included in selling, general and administrative expense increased due to RSUs assumed in connection with, and integration equity awards granted to employees acquired in, the Broadcom Merger, as well as annual employee equity awards granted at higher grant-date fair values. 35 Table of Contents Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangible Assets Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets recognized in operating expenses was $440 million for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 , compared to $54 million for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 . This increase was almost entirely attributable to an increase in amortizable intangible assets resulting from the Broadcom Merger. We expect to incur additional amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets in future periods as a result of any further acquisitions, particularly the pending Brocade Acquisition. Restructuring, Impairment and Disposal Charges Restructuring, impairment and disposal charges recognized in operating expenses was $46 million for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 compared to $31 million for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 . This increase was primarily due to employee termination, and lease and other exit costs resulting from the Broadcom Merger. We expect to incur additional restructuring charges in future periods as a result of any further acquisitions, particularly the pending Brocade Acquisition. Segment Operating Results The following table sets forth operating income by segment for the periods presented: Fiscal Quarter Ended Operating Income January 29, 2017 January 31, 2016 $ Change % Change (In millions, except for percentages) Wired infrastructure $ 933 $ 135 $ 798 591 % Wireless communications 427 265 162 61 % Enterprise storage 375 309 66 21 % Industrial & other 61 63 (2 ) (3 )% Unallocated expenses (1,290 ) (297 ) (993 ) 334 % Total operating income $ 506 $ 475 $ 31 7 % Operating income from our wired infrastructure and wireless communications segments increased primarily due to contributions from acquired BRCM products. Operating income from our enterprise storage segment increased due to contributions from our HDD products. Operating income from our industrial & other segment increased primarily due to an increase in revenue from our optocoupler products as a result of an increase in demand for these products. Unallocated expenses include amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, restructuring, impairment and disposal charges, acquisition-related costs, and other costs that are not used in evaluating the results of, or in allocating resources to, our segments. Unallocated expenses increased 334% in the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 compared with the corresponding prior fiscal year period, primarily due to increases in amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, restructuring, impairment and disposal charges, and costs incurred in connection with the Broadcom Merger. Additionally, share-based compensation increased due to RSUs assumed in, and integration equity awards granted to employees acquired in, the Broadcom Merger. Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest expense. Interest expense was $111 million for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 and $84 million for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 . The increase in interest expense was primarily due to interest on higher outstanding debt balances we incurred to finance the Broadcom Merger. Loss on extinguishment of debt. The net proceeds from the issuance of our Senior Notes, along with cash on hand, were used to repay all of the term loans outstanding under the 2016 Credit Agreement in the aggregate amount of $13,555 million . As a result, during the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 , we wrote-off $159 million of debt issuance costs, which were included in loss on extinguishment of debt. Other income, net. Other income, net was $31 million for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 compared to $3 million for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to a $23 million gain on the disposition of assets. Provision for income taxes. For the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 , our provision for income taxes was $10 million compared to $17 million for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 . This decrease was due to a discrete benefit from the recognition of $42 million of excess tax benefits from share-based awards that were vested and/or exercised during the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017. This was partially offset by an increase in tax provision caused by a change in the jurisdictional mix of income from continuing operations before income taxes during the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 . 36 Table of Contents Our provision for income taxes in future periods is likely to change as a result of the impact of internal restructuring and reorganizations, excess tax benefits or tax deficiencies from share-based awards, and changes in tax regulation. Seasonality Historically, our net revenue has typically been higher in the second half of the fiscal year than in the first half, primarily due to seasonality in our wireless communications segment. This segment has historically experienced seasonality due to launches of new mobile handsets manufactured by our OEM customers. However, from time to time, typical seasonality and industry cyclicality are overshadowed by other factors such as wider macroeconomic effects, the timing of significant product transitions and launches by large OEMs, particularly in the wireless communications and enterprise storage segments. As a result of the Broadcom Merger, our wired infrastructure segment represents the majority of our net revenue, and our business overall is more diversified. As a result, we believe that the impact of typical seasonality in any particular segment on our overall revenue should diminish over time. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following section discusses our principal liquidity and capital resources as well as our principal liquidity requirements and uses of cash. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. We believe our cash equivalents are liquid and accessible. Our primary sources of liquidity as of January 29, 2017 consisted of: (i) $3,536 million in cash and cash equivalents, (ii) cash we expect to generate from operations, and (iii) our outstanding revolving credit facility of up to $500 million aggregate principal amount, or the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility, which is committed until February 1, 2021, and substantially all of which was available to be drawn as of January 29, 2017 . Our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements primarily arise from: (i) business acquisitions and investments we may make from time to time, including the pending Brocade Acquisition, (ii) working capital requirements, (iii) research and development and capital expenditure needs, (iv) interim cash dividend payments by Broadcom (if and when declared by the Board), (v) cash distributions by the Partnership (if and when declared by the Partnerships General Partner), (vi) interest and principal payments related to outstanding indebtedness, (vii) payment of income taxes, including taxes resulting from the intercompany transfer of IP acquired in the Broadcom Merger, and (viii) funding employee benefit plan obligations. Our ability to fund these requirements will depend, in part, on our future cash flows, which are determined by our future operating performance and, therefore, subject to prevailing global macroeconomic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. We anticipate that our capital expenditures for fiscal year 2017 will be higher than fiscal year 2016 , due primarily to expenditures for construction at our Irvine and San Jose campuses, purchases of test manufacturing equipment and spending on equipment to support various research and development projects. Our debt and liquidity needs will also increase as a result of the closing of the Brocade Acquisition. We intend to finance the estimated $5.5 billion of cash consideration needed for that transaction with new debt financing and cash on hand from both companies. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand and cash flows from operations, combined with current borrowing availability under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility, as well as committed debt funding related to the pending Brocade Acquisition, provide sufficient liquidity, after giving effect to the pending Brocade Acquisition, to operate our business and fund our current and assumed obligations for at least the next 12 months. From time to time, we engage in discussions with third parties regarding potential acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies and product lines. Any such transaction could require significant use of our cash and cash equivalents, or require us to increase our borrowings under our 2016 Credit Agreement, or otherwise, to fund the transaction. We could also reduce certain expenditures such as payment of our cash dividend. If we do not have sufficient cash to fund our operations or finance growth opportunities, including acquisitions, or unanticipated capital expenditures, our business and financial condition could suffer. In such circumstances we may also seek to obtain new debt or equity financing. However, we cannot assure you that such additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our ability to service any indebtedness we may incur, including the Senior Notes, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We may also elect to sell additional debt or equity securities, or otherwise increase our outstanding indebtedness, for reasons other than those specified above. Summary and Highlights for the Fiscal Quarter ended January 29, 2017 Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $439 million to $3,536 million at January 29, 2017 from $3,097 million at October 30, 2016 . The increase was largely due to $1,353 million in net cash provided by operating activities, $13,550 million of gross proceeds from the issuance of the Senior Notes and $61 million from the issuance of ordinary shares upon exercises 37 Table of Contents of share options, partially offset by the repayment of $13,668 million , in aggregate principal amount, of our term loan borrowings under the 2016 Credit Agreement, an aggregate of $431 million in dividend payments by Broadcom and cash distributions by the Partnership (discussed in more detail below), $325 million in capital expenditures, and $107 million in debt issuance costs related to the Senior Notes. As a result of an amendment to the 2016 Credit Agreement, which became effective for the issuance of the Senior Notes, amounts borrowed under the 2016 Credit Agreement, including under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility, ceased to be collateralized and will only be guaranteed by the Guarantors. Dividends/Distributions Broadcom paid cash dividends of $1.02 and $0.44 per ordinary share, or $408 million and $122 million in the aggregate, during the fiscal quarters ended January 29, 2017 and January 31, 2016 , respectively. The Partnership paid a cash distribution of $408 million to Broadcom, as General Partner, and a cash distribution of $1.02 per Partnership REU, or $23 million in the aggregate, to its limited partners during the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 . Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Fiscal Quarter Ended January 29, 2017 January 31, 2016 (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,353 $ 474 Net cash used in investing activities (319 ) (85 ) Net cash used in financing activities (595 ) (42 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ 439 $ 347 Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities represents net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in assets and liabilities. The $879 million increase in cash provided by operations during the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 , compared to the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 , was due to the adjustments to net income for non-cash items, offset by changes in assets and liabilities. The adjustments to net income for non-cash items were higher, compared to the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 , primarily due to increased depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation and the non-cash portion of the debt extinguishment loss resulting from the repayment of our term loans outstanding under our 2016 Credit Agreement. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures, offset by proceeds from divestitures. The change in investing cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 compared to the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 primarily relates to a $185 million increase in purchases of property, plant and equipment and a $58 million decrease in proceeds from asset sales and other divestitures. Financing Activities Broadcom Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of the repayment of the term loan borrowings under the 2016 Credit Agreement, dividend payments by Broadcom, cash distributions by the Partnership and payments of debt issuance costs, offset by proceeds received from the issuance and sale of the Senior Notes and the issuance of ordinary shares pursuant to our employee equity incentive plans. The change in financing cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 compared to the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016 was due to the $13,668 million repayment of our term loan borrowings under the 2016 Credit Agreement, a $309 million increase in dividend and distribution payments, a $103 million increase in debt issuance costs and an $11 million decrease in proceeds received from the issuance of ordinary shares pursuant to our employee equity incentive plans, partially offset by a $13,550 million increase in proceeds from the issuance and sale of the Senior Notes. 38 Table of Contents The Partnership Cash used in financing activities for the Partnership is materially the same as discussed for Broadcom above. The differences are due to capital transactions with the General Partner, which are a result of the capital contributions from Broadcom to the Partnership. Indebtedness See Note 6. Borrowings included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Contractual Commitments See Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements at January 29, 2017 as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K under the Exchange Act. Indemnifications See Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Accounting Changes and Recent Accounting Standards For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting standards, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, in our condensed consolidated financial statements, see Note 1. Overview, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.