Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or Form 10-Q, and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 , or fiscal year 2017 , included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2017 , or 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to Broadcom, we, our and us mean Broadcom Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Broadcom Cayman L.P. References to the Partnership mean Broadcom Cayman L.P. and its consolidated subsidiaries. This Form 10-Q may contain predictions, estimates and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties, which are made under the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements may include projections of financial information; statements about historical results that may suggest trends for our business; statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations; statements of expectation or belief regarding future events (including any acquisitions we may make), technology developments, our products, product sales, expenses, liquidity, cash flow and growth rates, customer concentration and relationships, or enforceability of our intellectual property rights, or IP; and the effects of seasonality on our business. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections of our or industry performance and macroeconomic conditions, based on managements judgment, beliefs, current trends and market conditions, and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We derive most of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known factors, and it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. Accordingly, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q, and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. All of the forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors listed above and those discussed under the heading Risk Factors below. We undertake no intent or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. Overview We are a leading designer, developer and global supplier of a broad range of semiconductor devices with a focus on complex digital and mixed signal complementary metal oxide semiconductor based devices and analog III-V based products. We have a history of innovation and offer thousands of products that are used in end products such as enterprise and data center networking, home connectivity, set-top boxes, broadband access, telecommunication equipment, smartphones and base stations, data center servers and storage systems, factory automation, power generation and alternative energy systems, and electronic displays. We have four reportable segments: wired infrastructure, wireless communications, enterprise storage and industrial & other, which align with our principal target markets. Broadcom Cayman L.P., or the Partnership, is an exempted limited partnership formed under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Broadcom is the Partnerships sole General Partner and owns a majority interest (by vote and value) in the Partnership. Recent Developments and Highlights Highlights during the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 include the following: Our cash and cash equivalents were $7,076 million at February 4, 2018 . This compares with $11,204 million at October 29, 2017 , which included net proceeds of $3,980 million from the issuance of senior unsecured notes in October 2017 used to fund the Brocade Merger, as defined below. On November 17, 2017, or the Brocade Acquisition Date, we completed the acquisition of Brocade Communications Systems, Inc., or Brocade, for aggregate consideration of approximately $6.0 billion . We had a $5,786 million benefit from incomes taxes primarily due to provisional income tax benefits realized from the enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on December 22, 2017, or the 2017 Tax Reform Act. We generated $1,685 million of cash from operations. Broadcom paid aggregate cash dividends on its ordinary shares of $717 million , and the Partnership made aggregate distributions of $38 million on its exchangeable limited partnership units, or LP Units. Our fiscal year ending November 4, 2018, or fiscal year 2018, is a 53-week fiscal year, with our first fiscal quarter 40 Table of Contents containing 14 weeks compared to 13 weeks in the first fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017. The additional week in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 resulted in higher net revenue, gross margin dollars, research and development expense, and selling general and administrative expense compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2017. Redomiciliation to the United States from Singapore We have initiated the process to change the ultimate parent company of Broadcom to a Delaware corporation, or the Redomiciliation, through a statutory procedure known as a scheme of arrangement under Singapore law, or the Scheme of Arrangement, to be implemented pursuant to the implementation agreement by and between us and a newly established Delaware corporation (also named Broadcom Limited and referred to herein as Broadcom-Delaware). The Scheme of Arrangement is subject to approval of the High Court of the Republic of Singapore, or the Singapore High Court, and our shareholders. Pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement, all issued ordinary shares of Broadcom as of immediately prior to the effective time of the Scheme of Arrangement will be exchanged on a one-for-one basis for newly issued shares of common stock of Broadcom-Delaware, and Broadcom will become a subsidiary of Broadcom-Delaware. On March 9, 2018, the Singapore High Court approved the convening of a special meeting of Broadcom shareholders to be held on March 23, 2018 and we filed definitive proxy materials with the SEC in connection with this special meeting for the purpose of obtaining shareholder approval of the Scheme of Arrangement. In connection with the Redomiciliation, we intend to execute an amendment, or the Mandatory Exchange Amendment, to the Partnerships Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement, or the Partnership Agreement, pursuant to which, immediately prior to the completion of the Scheme of Arrangement, all outstanding LP Units, other than any LP Units held by us and our subsidiaries, will be mandatorily exchanged for shares of common stock of Broadcom-Delaware on a one-for-one basis. As a result, all limited partners of the Partnership, or the Limited Partners, will become common stockholders of Broadcom-Delaware. In addition, all related outstanding non-economic voting preference shares in the capital of Broadcom will be automatically redeemed upon the exchange of the LP Units in accordance with the Mandatory Exchange Amendment. The Mandatory Exchange Amendment is subject to the approval of the Limited Partners in accordance with the terms of the Partnership Agreement. The Scheme of Arrangement is not conditioned on the approval of the Mandatory Exchange Amendment and therefore the Redomiciliation will occur whether or not the Mandatory Exchange Amendment has been executed. If the Scheme of Arrangement occurs without the Mandatory Exchange Amendment having been approved and executed, LP Units of the Partnership will remain outstanding and will thereafter be exchangeable for cash or shares of common stock of Broadcom-Delaware in accordance with the terms of the Partnership Agreement. Broadcom-Delaware has entered into a support agreement with Dr. Henry Samueli and Dr. Henry T. Nicholas III, acting on behalf of themselves and certain investment funds affiliated with each of them, who together hold a significant majority of the outstanding LP Units, pursuant to which they have agreed to provide a sufficient number of consents to constitute approval of the Mandatory Exchange Amendment. Following the Redomiciliation, we expect the cash tax costs and overall effective cash tax rate of Broadcom (which we define as cash tax costs as a percentage of non-GAAP income before tax) to increase due to the enactment of the 2017 Tax Reform Act and Broadcom-Delaware becoming the ultimate parent company of Broadcom. Although there is significant uncertainty as to how the 2017 Tax Reform Act will be implemented, we presently expect that our overall effective cash tax rate following the Redomiciliation will be in the range of 9-11%. Due to the significant uncertainty, we do not believe it is practicable to reconcile the foregoing amount to an effective tax rate under GAAP (as defined below). Assuming the Scheme of Arrangement is approved by the requisite Broadcom shareholders and by the Singapore High Court and the other conditions to the consummation of the Scheme of Arrangement are satisfied, we expect to complete the Redomiciliation after the close of trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market on April 4, 2018. The Redomiciliation is expected to be tax-free to our shareholders. If we do not complete the Redomiciliation within one year from November 17, 2017, we agreed to initiate a process to separate and divest the Brocade Fibre Channel Storage Area Network, or FC SAN, business. Acquisition & Divestitures Acquisition of Brocade On the Brocade Acquisition Date, one of our indirect subsidiaries merged with and into Brocade with Brocade as the surviving corporation, or the Brocade Merger. As a result of the Brocade Merger, Brocade stockholders who did not perfect their appraisal rights with respect to the Brocade Merger received, in aggregate, approximately $5,298 million in cash in exchange for all shares of Brocade common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Brocade Merger. We also paid $701 million to retire Brocades term loan. In addition, we assumed all unvested Brocade stock options, restricted stock units, or RSUs, and performance stock units, or PSUs, held by continuing employees. All vested in-the-money Brocade stock options, after giving effect to any acceleration, were cashed out upon the Brocade Merger. 41 Table of Contents Brocade was a leading supplier of networking hardware, software and services, including FC SAN solutions and Internet Protocol Networking, or IP Networking, solutions. We acquired Brocade to enhance our position as a leading provider of enterprise storage connectivity solutions, broaden our portfolio for enterprise storage, and to increase our ability to address the evolving needs of our original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers. We financed the Brocade Merger with the net proceeds from the October 2017 issuance of senior unsecured notes, as well as cash on hand. Divestiture of Brocades IP Networking Business Following the Brocade Merger, on December 1, 2017, we sold Brocades IP Networking business, including the Ruckus Wireless and ICX Switch businesses, to ARRIS International plc for cash consideration of $800 million , adjusted for closing working capital balances. Proposed Acquisition of Qualcomm Incorporated On November 6, 2017, we announced a proposal to acquire Qualcomm Incorporated, or Qualcomm, for $70 per Qualcomm share. On March 12, 2018, the President of the United States issued an order that prohibits our acquisition of Qualcomm. As a result, on March 14, 2018, we announced that we have withdrawn and terminated our offer to acquire Qualcomm. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP, requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates and assumptions on current facts, historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the accrual of costs and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual financial results may differ materially and adversely from our estimates. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our historical financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies include revenue recognition, business combinations, valuation of long-lived assets, intangible assets and goodwill, inventory valuation, income taxes, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan assumptions, share-based compensation, and employee bonus programs. There were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies during the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 compared to those previously disclosed in Critical Accounting Estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 42 Table of Contents Results of Operations Fiscal Quarter Ended February 4, 2018 Compared to Fiscal Quarter Ended January 29, 2017 Fiscal Quarter Ended February 4, 2018 January 29, 2017 February 4, 2018 January 29, 2017 (In millions) (As a percentage of net revenue) Statements of Operations Data: Net revenue $ 5,327 $ 4,139 100 % 100 % Cost of products sold: Cost of products sold 1,899 1,573 37 38 Purchase accounting effect on inventory 70 1 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 715 559 13 14 Restructuring charges 15 6 Total cost of products sold 2,699 2,138 51 52 Gross margin 2,628 2,001 49 48 Research and development 925 808 17 19 Selling, general and administrative 291 201 6 5 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 339 440 6 11 Restructuring, impairment and disposal charges 130 46 2 1 Total operating expenses 1,685 1,495 31 36 Operating income $ 943 $ 506 18 % 12 % Net Revenue Our overall net revenue, as well as the percentage of total net revenue generated by sales in each of our segments, varies from quarter to quarter, due largely to fluctuations in end-market demand, including the effects of seasonality, which are discussed in detail below under Seasonality. Historically, a relatively small number of customers has accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. Direct sales to Foxconn Technology Group companies (including Hon Hai Precision Industries), together referred to as Foxconn, accounted for 18% and 15% of our net revenue for the fiscal quarters ended February 4, 2018 and January 29, 2017 , respectively. We believe our aggregate sales to our top five end customers, through all channels, accounted for approximately 48% and 39% of our net revenue for the fiscal quarters ended February 4, 2018 and January 29, 2017 , respectively. We believe aggregate sales to Apple, Inc., through all channels, accounted for over 30% and approximately 20% of our net revenue for the fiscal quarters ended February 4, 2018 and January 29, 2017 , respectively. We expect to continue to experience significant customer concentration in future periods. The loss of, or significant decrease in demand from, any of our top five end customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, some of our key customers place large orders or delay orders, causing our quarterly net revenue to fluctuate significantly. This is particularly true in our wireless communications segment as fluctuations may be magnified by the launches of, and seasonal variations in, sales of mobile handsets, as well as changes in the overall economic environment. In recent years, approximately 50% of our net revenue has come from sales to distributors, OEMs and contract manufacturers located in China. However, the end customers for our products, or for the end products into which our products are incorporated, are frequently located in countries other than China. As a result, we believe that a substantially smaller percentage of our net revenue is ultimately dependent on sales of either our product, or our customers product incorporating our product, to end customers located in China. 43 Table of Contents The following tables set forth net revenue by segment for the periods presented: Fiscal Quarter Ended Net Revenue February 4, 2018 January 29, 2017 $ Change % Change (In millions, except for percentages) Wireless communications $ 2,210 $ 1,175 $ 1,035 88 % Wired infrastructure 1,875 2,084 (209 ) (10 )% Enterprise storage 991 707 284 40 % Industrial & other 251 173 78 45 % Total net revenue $ 5,327 $ 4,139 $ 1,188 29 % Fiscal Quarter Ended % of Net Revenue February 4, 2018 January 29, 2017 Wireless communications 41% 29% Wired infrastructure 35 50 Enterprise storage 19 17 Industrial & other 5 4 Total net revenue 100% 100% Fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 compared to corresponding prior year period. Net revenue from our wireless communications segment increased primarily due to an increase in our wireless content in handsets, as well as a later new handset ramp with a major customer, which resulted in higher shipments in the quarter, as compared to the corresponding prior year period. Net revenue from our wired infrastructure segment decreased primarily due to a decrease in demand for our broadband and fiber optic products, primarily in the China market, and a decrease in demand for our standard networking products due to timing of customer expenditure cycles and inventory consumption. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in demand for our networking application-specific integrated circuit, or ASIC, products. Net revenue from our enterprise storage segment increased primarily due to contributions from the Brocade FC SAN business and an increase in demand for our server storage connectivity products, partially offset by a decrease in demand for our hard disk drive, or HDD. Net revenue from our industrial & other segment increased primarily due to an increase in IP licensing revenue and an increase in demand for our optocoupler products. Gross Margin Gross margin was $2,628 million for the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 compared to $2,001 million for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 . The $627 million increase was primarily due to a 29% increase in net revenue, partially offset by an increase of $156 million in amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and a $70 million increase in purchase accounting effect on inventory as a result of the Brocade Merger. As a percentage of net revenue, gross margin was relatively flat at 49% and 48% for the fiscal quarters ended February 4, 2018 and January 29, 2017 , respectively. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense increased $117 million , or 14% , for the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 compared to the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 . Research and development expense as a percentage of net revenue was 17% for the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 compared to 19% for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 . The increase in research and development expense dollars was primarily due to an increase in share-based compensation expense as well as the acquisition of Brocade. Share-based compensation expense was higher in the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 primarily due to annual employee equity awards granted at higher grant-date fair values. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense increased $90 million , or 45% , for the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 , compared to the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 . Selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net revenue was 6% for the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 compared to 5% for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 . The increase in selling, general and administrative expense dollars was primarily due to the acquisition of Brocade, an increase in share-based compensation expense and an increase in acquisition-related costs. Share-based compensation expense was higher in the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 due to annual employee equity awards granted at higher grant-date fair values. 44 Table of Contents Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangible Assets Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets recognized in operating expenses was $339 million and $440 million for the fiscal quarters ended February 4, 2018 and January 29, 2017 , respectively. The decrease was primarily due to the full amortization of certain intangible assets acquired in our acquisition of Broadcom Corporation, partially offset by the addition of amortization of intangible assets acquired in the Brocade Merger. Restructuring, Impairment and Disposal Charges Restructuring, impairment and disposal charges recognized in operating expenses, primarily related to employee termination costs, were $130 million and $46 million for the fiscal quarters ended February 4, 2018 and January 29, 2017 , respectively. The increase was mainly due to an increase in restructuring activities resulting from the Brocade Merger. Segment Operating Results The following table sets forth operating income by segment for the periods presented: Fiscal Quarter Ended Operating Income February 4, 2018 January 29, 2017 $ Change % Change (In millions, except for percentages) Wireless communications $ 1,059 $ 427 $ 632 148 % Wired infrastructure 787 933 (146 ) (16 )% Enterprise storage 579 375 204 54 % Industrial & other 142 61 81 133 % Unallocated expenses (1,624 ) (1,290 ) (334 ) 26 % Total operating income $ 943 $ 506 $ 437 86 % Fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 compared to corresponding prior year period. Operating income from our wireless communications segment increased primarily due to higher revenue, largely resulting from an increase in our wireless content in handsets, as well as a later new handset ramp with a major customer, which resulted in higher shipments in the quarter, and improved gross margin. Operating income from our wired infrastructure segment decreased primarily due to a decrease in demand for our broadband and fiber optic products, primarily in the China market, and a decrease in demand for our standard networking products, partially offset by an increase in demand for networking ASIC products. Operating income from our enterprise storage segment increased due to contributions from the Brocade FC SAN business and an increase in revenue from our server storage connectivity products, partially offset by a decrease in demand for our HDD products. Operating income from our industrial & other segment increased primarily due to an increase in revenue from our licensing of IP and our optocoupler products as a result of an increase in demand for these products. Unallocated expenses include amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, restructuring, impairment and disposal charges, acquisition-related costs, and other costs that are not used in evaluating the results of, or in allocating resources to, our segments. Unallocated expenses increased 26% in the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 compared with the corresponding prior year period, primarily due to increases in share-based compensation expense, restructuring, impairment and disposal charges, purchase accounting effect on inventory, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and acquisition-related costs. The increase in unallocated expenses were primarily due to the Brocade Merger. Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest expense. Interest expense was $183 million and $111 million for the fiscal quarters ended February 4, 2018 and January 29, 2017 , respectively. The increase was primarily due to the issuance and sale of our senior unsecured notes in October 2017 and debt commitment fees related to the Brocade Merger. Loss on extinguishment of debt. Loss on extinguishment of debt was $159 million for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 . We issued senior unsecured notes in January 2017 to repay all of the term loans outstanding under our guaranteed, collateralized credit agreement dated February 1, 2016. As a result, we wrote-off $159 million of debt issuance costs. Other income, net. Other income, net includes interest income, gains (losses) on foreign currency remeasurement and other miscellaneous items. Other income, net was $35 million and $31 million for the fiscal quarters ended February 4, 2018 and January 29, 2017 , respectively. Provision for (benefit from) income taxes. For the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 , we had a benefit from income taxes of $5,786 million compared to a provision for income taxes of $10 million for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 . 45 Table of Contents The benefit principally resulted from provisional income tax benefits realized from the enactment of the 2017 Tax Reform Act, which included $88 million related to the remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities, which was based on the tax rates at which they are expected to be reversed in the future, and $5,722 million related to a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of accumulated non-U.S. earnings of U.S. controlled foreign corporations, or the Transition Tax. The benefit related to the Transition Tax was primarily due to a reduction of $10,392 million in our federal deferred income tax liabilities on accumulated non-U.S. earnings, partially offset by $2,547 million of federal provisional long-term Transition Tax payable and $2,179 million of unrecognized federal tax benefits related to the Transition Tax. Our provision for (benefit from) income taxes in future periods is likely to change as a result of the impact of internal restructuring and reorganizations, excess tax benefits or tax deficiencies from share-based awards, and changes in tax regulation. Seasonality Historically, our net revenue has typically been higher in the second half of the fiscal year than in the first half, primarily due to seasonality in our wireless communications segment. This segment has historically experienced seasonality due to launches of new mobile handsets manufactured by our OEM customers. However, from time to time, typical seasonality and industry cyclicality are overshadowed by other factors such as wider macroeconomic effects, the timing of significant product transitions and launches by large OEMs, particularly in the wireless communications segment. We have a diversified business portfolio and our wired infrastructure segment generally represents the largest portion of our net revenue. We believe that our overall revenue is less susceptible to seasonal variations as a result of the diversification of our business portfolio. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following section discusses our principal liquidity and capital resources as well as our principal liquidity requirements and uses of cash. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. We believe our cash equivalents are liquid and accessible. Our primary sources of liquidity as of February 4, 2018 consisted of: (i) $7,076 million in cash and cash equivalents and (ii) cash we expect to generate from operations. In addition, we may also generate cash from the sale of assets from time to time. Our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements primarily arise from: (i) business acquisitions and investments we may make from time to time, (ii) working capital requirements, (iii) research and development and capital expenditure needs, (iv) interim cash dividend payments by Broadcom (if and when declared by its Board of Directors), (v) cash distributions by the Partnership (if and when declared by the Partnerships General Partner), (vi) interest and principal payments related to outstanding indebtedness, and (vii) payment of income taxes, including taxes resulting from the intercompany transfer of IP. Our ability to fund these requirements will depend, in part, on our future cash flows, which are determined by our future operating performance and, therefore, subject to prevailing global macroeconomic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. We expect our capital expenditures for fiscal year 2018 will be somewhat lower than fiscal year 2017 , due primarily to completion of construction at our Irvine and San Jose campuses. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand and cash flows from operations will provide sufficient liquidity to operate our business and fund our current and assumed obligations for at least the next 12 months. From time to time, we engage in discussions with third parties regarding potential acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies and product lines. Any such transaction, or evaluation of potential transactions, could require significant use of our cash and cash equivalents, or require us to increase our borrowings to fund such transactions. If we do not have sufficient cash to fund our operations or finance growth opportunities, including acquisitions, or unanticipated capital expenditures, our business and financial condition could suffer. In such circumstances we may also seek to obtain new debt or equity financing. However, we cannot assure you that such additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our ability to service the senior unsecured notes we issued in January and October 2017 and any other indebtedness we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We may also elect to sell additional debt or equity securities for reasons other than those specified above. 46 Table of Contents Summary and Highlights Our cash and cash equivalents decreased by $4,128 million to $7,076 million at February 4, 2018 from $11,204 million at October 29, 2017 . The decrease was largely due to the following: $4,780 million paid to fund the Brocade Merger; $856 million payment of Brocades assumed debt; $755 million of dividend payments by Broadcom and cash distributions by the Partnership; $244 million for investment purchases; and $220 million in capital expenditures. The decrease was partially offset by the following: $1,685 million in net cash provided by operating activities; $782 million of proceeds from sales of businesses; $237 million of proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment; and $34 million from ordinary shares issued upon exercises of share options. Dividends/Distributions Dividends paid by Broadcom Fiscal Quarter Ended February 4, 2018 January 29, 2017 (In millions, except per share data) Cash dividends paid per ordinary share $ 1.75 $ 1.02 Cash dividends paid to ordinary shareholders $ 717 $ 408 Distributions made by the Partnership Fiscal Quarter Ended February 4, 2018 January 29, 2017 (in millions, except per LP Unit) Cash distributions paid to General Partner $ 717 $ 408 Cash distributions paid per LP Unit $ 1.75 $ 1.02 Cash distributions paid to Limited Partners $ 38 $ 23 Cash Flows Fiscal Quarter Ended February 4, 2018 January 29, 2017 (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,685 $ 1,353 Net cash used in investing activities (4,227 ) (319 ) Net cash used in financing activities (1,586 ) (595 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (4,128 ) $ 439 Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities represents net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in assets and liabilities. The $332 million increase in cash provided by operations during the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 , compared to the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 , was due to the impact of net income and adjustments for non-cash 47 Table of Contents items, offset by changes in assets and liabilities. Net income for the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 reflects an income tax benefit of $5,786 million principally resulting from the enactment of the 2017 Tax Reform Act. This benefit was primarily non-cash and resulted in a significant adjustment to net income and included in the deferred taxes and non-cash taxes line in the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018. Other non-cash adjustments to net income during the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 , as compared to the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 , primarily included an increase in share-based compensation and an increase in depreciation and amortization, partially offset by a decrease in the non-cash portion of the debt extinguishment loss. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of cash used for acquisitions, capital expenditures and investments, offset by proceeds from divestitures. The change in investing cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 compared to the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 primarily related to $4,780 million paid for the Brocade Merger and $244 million purchases of investments in the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 , partially offset by a $772 million increase in proceeds from sales of businesses, a $237 million increase in proceeds from asset sales and a $105 million decrease in capital expenditures. Financing Activities Broadcom Cash used in financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds and payments related to our long-term-debt, dividend payments by Broadcom, cash distributions by the Partnership, the issuance of ordinary shares pursuant to our employee equity incentive plans and payments of debt issuance costs. The change in financing cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended February 4, 2018 compared to the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2017 was primarily due to an $856 million payment of debt assumed in the Brocade Merger and a $324 million increase in dividend and distribution payments. The Partnership Cash used in financing activities for the Partnership is materially the same as discussed for Broadcom above. The differences are due to capital transactions with the General Partner, which resulted from capital contributions from Broadcom to the Partnership. Indebtedness See Note 6. Borrowings included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Contractual Commitments See Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements at February 4, 2018 as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K under the Exchange Act. Indemnifications See Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Accounting Changes and Recent Accounting Standards For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting standards, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, in our condensed consolidated financial statements, see Note 1. Overview, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.