Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These statements are indicated by words or phrases such as anticipate, expect, estimate, seek, plan, believe, could, intend, will, and similar words or phrases. These forward-looking statements may include projections of financial information; statements about historical results that may suggest trends for our business; statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations; statements of expectation or belief regarding future events (including any acquisitions we may make), technology developments, our products, product sales, expenses, liquidity, cash flow and growth rates, or enforceability of our intellectual property rights; and the effects of seasonality on our business. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections of our industry performance and macroeconomic conditions, based on managements judgment, beliefs, current trends and market conditions, and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We derive most of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known factors, and it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. Accordingly, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These factors include risks associated with: our acquisition of Symantec Corporations Enterprise Security business (Symantec Business), including (1) potential difficulties in employee retention, (2) unexpected costs, charges or expenses, and (3) our ability to successfully integrate the Symantec Business and achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction; any loss of our significant customers and fluctuations in the timing and volume of significant customer demand; our dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourced supply chain; our dependency on a limited number of suppliers; global economic conditions and concerns; international political and economic conditions; any acquisitions we may make, such as delays, challenges and expenses associated with receiving governmental and regulatory approvals and satisfying other closing conditions, and with integrating acquired companies with our existing businesses and our ability to achieve the growth prospects and synergies expected by such acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of the Symantec Business; government regulations and trade restrictions; our significant indebtedness, including the additional indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the Symantec Business acquisition and the need to generate sufficient cash flows to service and repay such debt; dependence on and risks associated with distributors and resellers of our products; dependence on senior management and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; involvement in legal and administrative proceedings; quarterly and annual fluctuations in our operating results; our ability to accurately estimate customers demand and adjust our manufacturing and supply chain accordingly; cyclicality in the semiconductor industry or in our target markets; our competitive performance and ability to continue achieving design wins with our customers, as well as the timing of any design wins; prolonged disruptions of our or our contract manufacturers' manufacturing facilities or other significant operations; our ability to improve our manufacturing efficiency and quality; our dependence on outsourced service providers for certain key business services and their ability to execute to our requirements; our ability to maintain or improve gross margin; our ability to protect our intellectual property and the unpredictability of any associated litigation expense; compatibility of our software products with operating environments, platforms or third-party products; our ability to enter into satisfactory software license agreements; sales to our government clients; availability of third party software used in our products; use of open source code sources in our products; any expense or reputational damage associated with resolving customer product warranty and indemnification claims; market acceptance of the end products into which our products are designed; our ability to sell to new types of customers and to keep pace with technological advances; our compliance with privacy and data security laws; our ability to protect against a breach of security systems; changes in accounting standards; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; our provision for income taxes and overall cash tax costs, legislation that may impact our overall cash tax costs and our ability to maintain tax concessions in certain jurisdictions; and other events and trends on a national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive and regulatory nature. All of the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors listed above and those discussed under the heading Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We caution you that the foregoing list of important factors may not contain all of the material factors that are important to you. In addition, in light of these risks and uncertainties, the matters referred to in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not in fact occur. We undertake no intent or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. 1 Table of Contents Financial information and results of operations presented relate to (1) Broadcom Inc. for the periods after April 4, 2018, (2) Broadcom Limited, our predecessor, for the period from February 1, 2016 to April 4, 2018, and (3) Avago Technologies Limited, predecessor to Broadcom Limited, for periods prior to February 1, 2016. Similarly, unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to Broadcom, we, our and us mean Broadcom Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries after April 4, 2018 and, prior to that time, our predecessors. Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to October 31 in a 52-week year and the first Sunday in November in a 53-week year. We refer to our fiscal years by the calendar year in which they end. For example, the fiscal year ended November 3, 2019 is referred to as fiscal year 2019, and was a 52-week year. 2 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Broadcom Inc. (Broadcom) is the successor to Broadcom Pte. Ltd. (formerly Broadcom Limited), a Singapore company (Broadcom-Singapore), as a result of our redomiciliation to the United States on April 4, 2018 (the Redomiciliation Transaction). We are a global technology leader that designs, develops and supplies a broad range of semiconductor and infrastructure software solutions. Our over 50-year history of innovation dates back to our diverse origins from Hewlett-Packard Company, AT&T, LSI Corporation, Broadcom Corporation (BRCM), Brocade Communications Systems LLC (Brocade), CA, Inc. (CA) and Symantec Corporation. Over the years, we have assembled a large team of semiconductor and software design engineers around the world. We maintain design, product and software development engineering resources at locations in the U.S., Asia, Europe and Israel, providing us with engineering expertise worldwide. We strategically focus our research and development resources to address niche opportunities in our target markets and leverage our extensive portfolio of U.S. and other patents, and other intellectual property (IP) to integrate multiple technologies and create system-on-chip (SoC) component and software solutions that target growth opportunities. We design products and software that deliver high-performance and provide mission-critical functionality. We develop semiconductor devices with a focus on complex digital and mixed signal complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) based devices and analog III-V based products. We have a history of innovation in the semiconductor industry and offer thousands of products that are used in end products such as enterprise and data center networking, home connectivity, set-top boxes, broadband access, telecommunication equipment, smartphones and base stations, data center servers and storage systems, factory automation, power generation and alternative energy systems, and electronic displays. We differentiate ourselves through our high performance design and integration capabilities and focus on developing products for target markets where we believe we can earn attractive margins. Our infrastructure software solutions enable customers to plan, develop, automate, manage, and secure applications across mainframe, distributed, mobile, and cloud platforms. Many of the largest companies in the world, including most of the Fortune 500 and many government agencies, rely on our enterprise and mainframe software to help manage and secure their on-premise and hybrid cloud environments. Our portfolio of mainframe and enterprise software solutions enables customers to leverage the benefits of agility, automation, insights and security in managing business processes and technology investments. We also offer mission critical fibre channel storage area networking (FC SAN) products and related software in the form of modules, switches and subsystems incorporating multiple semiconductor products. Following the acquisition of Symantecs Enterprise Security business, we also offer a cybersecurity solutions portfolio, including data loss prevention, endpoint protection, and web, email and cloud security solutions. Recent Developments Acquisition of Symantecs Enterprise Security Business On November 4, 2019, we completed the purchase of certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of the Symantec Corporation (now known as NortonLifeLock Inc.) Enterprise Security business (the Symantec Business) for approximately $10.7 billion in cash, on a cash-free, debt-free basis (the Symantec Asset Purchase), subject to delayed closings in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions, in accordance with the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement (as amended or supplemented) we entered into with Symantec on August 8, 2019. The addition of the Symantec Business significantly expands our infrastructure software solutions as we continue to build one of the worlds leading infrastructure technology companies. The Symantec Business is an established leader in cybersecurity. We acquired the Symantec Business to expand our footprint of mission critical infrastructure software with our existing customer base. The Symantec Business includes a deep and broad mix of products, services and solutions, unifying cloud and on-premises security to provide advanced threat protection and information protection across endpoints, network, email and cloud applications. The key components of the Symantec Business include: Data Loss Prevention : Data access governance, activity monitoring, threat detection, and remediation solutions that enable security access to cloud applications. Endpoint Protection : A single agent architecture that delivers multi-layered security across endpoints - desktop, server, mobile and Internet of Things (IoT) - and enables customers to protect enterprise and mobile workforces, regardless of operating system, device or network security approaches. Network Security : Cloud and on-premises network security solutions, based on an advanced proxy architecture, that provide superior defense against advanced threats, enable users to protect critical business information, and help ensure secure and compliant use of cloud applications and the web. 3 Table of Contents Email Security : Multiple layers of protection (including threat isolation and advanced analytics) against ransomware, spear phishing, and enterprise email compromise that help to identify targeted attacks and enable users to protect email against user error and data leakage. Cloud Application Securit y: Advanced solutions that secure cloud access, cloud infrastructure, and cloud applications, providing in-depth visibility, data security, and threat protection to safeguard users, information and workloads across public and private clouds. Acquisition of CA, Inc. On November 5, 2018 , we acquired CA for approximately $18.8 billion in cash and assumed $2.25 billion of outstanding unsecured bonds (the CA Merger). We financed the CA Merger with $18 billion in new term loans, as well as cash on hand of the combined companies. We also assumed all eligible unvested CA equity awards in the transaction. Following the CA Merger, we sold Veracode, Inc., a subsidiary of CA and provider of application security testing solutions, to Thoma Bravo, LLC for an aggregate purchase price of $950 million. Segment Reporting We updated our organizational structure for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2019 (fiscal year 2019), resulting in three reportable segments: semiconductor solutions, infrastructure software and IP licensing. Beginning with the fiscal year ending November 1, 2020, we will have two reportable segments: semiconductor solutions and infrastructure software. Each segment represents a component for which separate financial information is available that is utilized on a regular basis by the chief operating decision maker in determining how to allocate resources and evaluate performance. The reportable segments are determined based on several factors including, but not limited to, customer base, homogeneity of products, technology, delivery channels and similar economic characteristics. Our semiconductor solutions segment will continue to include all of our semiconductor solution product lines, as well as our IP licensing. Our infrastructure software segment will include our mainframe and enterprise software solutions, our FC SAN business and the Symantec Business. See discussion in the Results of Operations section included in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 12 . Segment Information included in Part II,