Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These statements are indicated by words or phrases such as anticipate, expect, estimate, seek, plan, believe, could, intend, will, and similar words or phrases. These forward-looking statements may include projections of financial information; statements about historical results that may suggest trends for our business; statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations; statements of expectation or belief regarding future events (including any acquisitions we may make), technology developments, our products, product sales, expenses, liquidity, cash flow and growth rates, or enforceability of our intellectual property rights; and the effects of seasonality on our business. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections of our industry performance and macroeconomic conditions, based on managements judgment, beliefs, current trends and market conditions, and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We derive most of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known factors, and it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. Accordingly, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements. Material factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are summarized and disclosed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Financial information and results of operations presented relate to (1) Broadcom Inc. for the periods after April 4, 2018 and (2) Broadcom Limited, our predecessor, for the period prior to April 4, 2018. Similarly, unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to Broadcom, we, our and us mean Broadcom Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries after April 4, 2018 and, prior to that time, our predecessor. Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to October 31 in a 52-week year and the first Sunday in November in a 53-week year. We refer to our fiscal years by the calendar year in which they end. For example, the fiscal year ended November 1, 2020 was a 52-week year. 2 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Broadcom Inc. (Broadcom) is the successor to Broadcom Pte. Ltd. (formerly Broadcom Limited), a Singapore company, as a result of our redomiciliation to the United States on April 4, 2018. We are a global technology leader that designs, develops and supplies a broad range of semiconductor and infrastructure software solutions. Our over 50-year history of innovation dates back to our diverse origins from Hewlett-Packard Company, AT&T, LSI Corporation, Broadcom Corporation (BRCM), Brocade Communications Systems LLC (Brocade), CA, Inc. (CA) and Symantec Enterprise Security. Over the years, we have assembled a large team of semiconductor and software design engineers around the world. We maintain design, product and software development engineering resources at locations in the U.S., Asia, Europe and Israel, providing us with engineering expertise worldwide. We strategically focus our research and development resources to address niche opportunities in our target markets and leverage our extensive portfolio of U.S. and other patents, and other intellectual property (IP) to integrate multiple technologies and create system-on-chip (SoC) component and software solutions that target growth opportunities. We design products and software that deliver high-performance and provide mission-critical functionality. We develop semiconductor devices with a focus on complex digital and mixed signal complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) based devices and analog III-V based products. We have a history of innovation in the semiconductor industry and offer thousands of products that are used in end products such as enterprise and data center networking, home connectivity, set-top boxes, broadband access, telecommunication equipment, smartphones and base stations, data center servers and storage systems, factory automation, power generation and alternative energy systems, and electronic displays. We differentiate ourselves through our high performance design and integration capabilities and focus on developing products for target markets where we believe we can earn attractive margins. Our infrastructure software solutions enable customers to plan, develop, automate, manage, and secure applications across mainframe, distributed, mobile, and cloud platforms. Many of the largest companies in the world, including most of the Fortune 500, and many government agencies rely on our software solutions to help manage and secure their on-premise and hybrid cloud environments. Our portfolio of mainframe and BizOps software solutions enables customers to leverage the benefits of agility, automation, insights and security in managing business processes and technology investments. Our Symantec cyber security solutions portfolio, include endpoint, network, information and identity security solutions. We also offer mission critical fibre channel storage area networking (FC SAN) products and related software in the form of modules, switches and subsystems incorporating multiple semiconductor products. Recent Developments Acquisition of Symantecs Enterprise Security Business On November 4, 2019, we completed the purchase of certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of the Symantec Corporation Enterprise Security business (the Symantec Business) for $10.7 billion in cash, on a cash-free, debt-free basis. The addition of the Symantec Business significantly expanded our infrastructure software solutions as we continue to build one of the worlds leading infrastructure technology companies. Segment Reporting We updated our organizational structure during the fiscal year ended November 1, 2020 (fiscal year 2020), resulting in two reportable segments: semiconductor solutions and infrastructure software. Each segment represents a component for which separate financial information is available that is utilized on a regular basis by the chief operating decision maker in determining how to allocate resources and evaluate performance. The reportable segments are determined based on several factors including, but not limited to, customer base, homogeneity of products, technology, delivery channels and similar economic characteristics. Our semiconductor solutions segment includes all of our semiconductor solution product lines, as well as our IP licensing. Our infrastructure software segment includes our mainframe, BizOps and cyber security software solutions, and our FC SAN business. See discussion in the Results of Operations section included in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 13. Segment Information included in Part II,