Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These statements are indicated by words or phrases such as anticipate, expect, estimate, seek, plan, believe, could, intend, will, and similar words or phrases. These forward-looking statements may include the proposed transaction involving Broadcom and Qualcomm Incorporated, or Qualcomm, and the expected benefits of the proposed transaction; projections of financial information; statements about historical results that may suggest trends for our business; statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations; statements of expectation or belief regarding future events (including any acquisitions we may make), technology developments, our products, product sales, expenses, liquidity, cash flow and growth rates, or enforceability of our intellectual property rights; and the effects of seasonality on our business. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections of our or industry performance and macroeconomic conditions, based on managements judgment, beliefs, current trends and market conditions, and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We derive most of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known factors, and it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. Accordingly, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These factors include risks associated with our proposal to acquire Qualcomm, including: (i) the ultimate outcome of any possible transaction between Broadcom and Qualcomm; (ii) uncertainties as to whether Qualcomm will cooperate with us regarding the proposed transaction; (iii) the effects of the announcement of the proposed transaction on the ability of Broadcom and Qualcomm to retain customers, to retain and hire key personnel and to maintain favorable relationships with suppliers or customers; (iv) the timing of the proposed transaction; (v) the ability to obtain regulatory approvals and satisfy other closing conditions to the completion of the proposed transaction (including shareholder approval); and (vi) other risks related to the completion of the proposed transaction and actions related thereto; any loss of our significant customers and fluctuations in the timing and volume of significant customer demand; our dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourced supply chain; our dependency on a limited number of suppliers; any acquisitions we may make, such as delays, challenges and expenses associated with receiving governmental and regulatory approvals and satisfying other closing conditions, and with integrating acquired companies with our existing businesses and our ability to achieve the growth prospects and synergies expected by such acquisitions; our ability to accurately estimate customers demand and adjust our manufacturing and supply chain accordingly; our significant indebtedness, including the need to generate sufficient cash flows to service and repay such debt; dependence on a small number of markets and the rate of growth in these markets; dependence on and risks associated with distributors of our products; dependence on senior management; quarterly and annual fluctuations in our operating results; global economic conditions and concerns; our proposed redomiciliation of our ultimate parent company to the United States; our competitive performance and ability to continue achieving design wins with our customers, as well as the timing of any design wins; prolonged disruptions of our or our contract manufacturers' manufacturing facilities or other significant operations; our ability to improve our manufacturing efficiency and quality; our dependence on outsourced service providers for certain key business services and their ability to execute to our requirements; our ability to maintain or improve gross margin; our overall cash tax costs, legislation that may impact our overall cash tax costs and our ability to maintain tax concessions in certain jurisdictions; our ability to protect our intellectual property and the unpredictability of any associated litigation expense; any expense or reputational damage associated with resolving customer product warranty and indemnification claims; cyclicality in the semiconductor industry or in our target markets; our ability to sell to new types of customers and to keep pace with technological advances; market acceptance of the end products into which our products are designed; and other events and trends on a national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive and regulatory nature. All of the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors listed above and those discussed under the heading Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We caution you that the foregoing list of important factors may not contain all of the material factors that are important to you. In addition, in light of these risks and uncertainties, the matters referred to in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not in fact occur. We undertake no intent or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to Broadcom, we, our and us mean Broadcom Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Broadcom Cayman L.P. References to the Partnership mean Broadcom Cayman L.P. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Financial information and results of operations presented for the 1 Table of Contents periods prior to February 1, 2016 relate to Avago Technologies Limited, our predecessor, and relate to Broadcom and the Partnership for the periods after February 1, 2016. Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to October 31 in a 52-week year and the first Sunday in November in a 53-week year. We refer to our fiscal years by the calendar year in which they end. For example, the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 is referred to as fiscal year 2017 . 2 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Broadcom Limited, or Broadcom, is the successor to Avago Technologies Limited, or Avago, as a result of the business combination between Avago and Broadcom Corporation, or BRCM, completed on February 1, 2016, or the Broadcom Transaction. We are a leading designer, developer and global supplier of a broad range of semiconductor devices with a focus on complex digital and mixed signal complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, based devices and analog III-V based products. We have a history of innovation and offer thousands of products that are used in end products such as enterprise and data center networking, home connectivity, set-top boxes, broadband access, telecommunication equipment, mobile handsets and base stations, data center servers and storage systems, factory automation, power generation and alternative energy systems, and electronic displays. We differentiate ourselves through our high performance design and integration capabilities and focus on developing products for target markets where we believe we can earn attractive margins. We have four reportable segments: wired infrastructure, wireless communications, enterprise storage, and industrial & other, which align with our principal target markets. The Partnership is an exempted limited partnership formed under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Broadcom is the sole General Partner and owns a majority interest (by vote and value) in the Partnership. As General Partner, Broadcom has the exclusive right, power and authority to manage, control, administer and operate the business and affairs and to make decisions regarding the undertaking and business of the Partnership in accordance with the Partnerships amended and restated exempted partnership agreement, or the Partnership Agreement, and applicable laws. There is no board of directors of the Partnership. Semiconductors are made by imprinting a network of electronic components onto a semiconductor wafer. These devices are designed to perform various functions such as processing, amplifying and selectively filtering electronic signals, controlling electronic system functions and processing, and transmitting and storing data. Our digital and mixed signal products are based on silicon wafers with CMOS transistors offering fast switching speeds and low power consumption, which are both critical design factors for the markets we serve. We also offer analog products, which are based on III-V semiconductor materials that have higher electrical conductivity than silicon, and thus tend to have better performance characteristics in radio frequency, or RF, and optoelectronic applications. III-V refers to elements from the 3rd and 5th groups in the periodic table of chemical elements. Examples of these materials used in our products are gallium arsenide, or GaAs, gallium nitride, and indium phosphide, or InP. Following the acquisition of Brocade Communications Systems, Inc., or Brocade, we also offer mission critical fibre channel storage area networking, or FC SAN, products in the form of modules, switches and subsystems incorporating multiple semiconductor products. Our over 50-year history of innovation dates back to our diverse origins from Hewlett-Packard Company, AT&T, LSI Corporation, or LSI, and BRCM. Over the years, we have assembled a large team of digital, mixed signal and analog design engineers around the world. We maintain design and product development engineering resources at locations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Israel, providing us with engineering expertise worldwide. We strategically focus our research and development resources to address niche opportunities in our target markets and leverage our extensive portfolio of U.S. and other patents and other intellectual property, or IP, to integrate multiple technologies and create system-on-chip, or SoC, and component solutions that target growth opportunities. We design products that deliver high-performance and provide mission-critical functionality. Original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, or their contract manufacturers, and distributors typically account for the substantial majority of our sales. We have established strong relationships with leading OEM customers across multiple target markets. Many of our major customer relationships have been in place for many years and have often been built as a result of years of collaborative product development. This has enabled us to build our IP portfolio and develop critical expertise regarding our customers requirements, including substantial system level knowledge. This collaboration has provided us with key insights into our customers' businesses and has enabled us to be more efficient and productive and to better serve our target markets and customers. We have a direct sales force focused on supporting large OEMs. We also distribute a substantial portion of our products through our broad distribution network, and a significant amount of these sales are to large global electronic components distributors, including Avnet, Inc. We focus on maintaining an efficient global supply chain and a variable, low-cost operating model. Accordingly, we outsource a majority of our manufacturing operations, utilizing third-party foundry and assembly and test capabilities, as well as some of our corporate infrastructure functions. We focus our internal fabrication capacity and capital expenditures on products utilizing our innovative and proprietary processes, to protect our IP and to accelerate time to market of our products, while outsourcing commodity processes such as standard CMOS. We also have a long history of operating in Asia, where approximately 38% of our employees are located and where we manufacture and source the majority of our products and materials. Our presence in Asia places us in close proximity to many of our customers manufacturing facilities and at the center of worldwide electronics manufacturing. 3 Table of Contents Recent Developments U.S. 2017 Tax Reform Act On December 20, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the 2017 Tax Reform Act, was approved by Congress and is pending presidential approval. In general, the 2017 Tax Reform Act reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective in 2018. The 2017 Tax Reform Act moves from worldwide business taxation to a participation exemption regime. The 2017 Tax Reform Act also imposes base-erosion prevention measures on non-U.S. earnings of U.S. entities, as well as a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on accumulated non-U.S. earnings of U.S. entities. The base-erosion prevention measures will have the effect of subjecting non-U.S. earnings of U.S. entities to taxation in the United States at an effective rate that is expected to be substantially lower than 21%. The 2017 Tax Reform Act will affect the tax position and cash taxes of our U.S. entities and will have a corresponding impact on our consolidated financial results starting in the first quarter of our fiscal year 2018. Acquisition of Brocade On November 17, 2017, we acquired Brocade for approximately $6.1 billion. Brocades networking solutions help the worlds leading organizations turn their networks into platforms for business innovation. With solutions spanning public and private data centers to the network edge, Brocade is a leader in FC SAN switching. We are in the process of integrating Brocade into our enterprise storage segment. In connection with the acquisition of Brocade, or the Brocade Merger, we incurred $4.0 billion of indebtedness. Proposed Acquisition of Qualcomm On November 6, 2017, we announced a proposal to acquire Qualcomm Incorporated, or Qualcomm, for $70 per share, consisting of $60 in cash and $10 in Broadcom ordinary shares. We stated that the proposal stands whether Qualcomms pending acquisition of NXP Semiconductors N.V., or NXP, is consummated on the then-disclosed terms of $110 per NXP share or is terminated. Including the assumption of net debt and giving effect to the pending NXP acquisition, the enterprise value of the proposed transaction is approximately $130 billion. On November 13, 2017, Qualcomms board of directors rejected our proposal. In response, we announced that we remained fully committed to pursuing the acquisition of Qualcomm and reiterated our proposal. On December 4, 2017, we announced that we had provided notice to Qualcomm of our intent to nominate 11 candidates for election to the Qualcomm board of directors at Qualcomms 2018 annual meeting of stockholders. On December 11, 2017, we filed preliminary proxy materials with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, in connection with our planned solicitation of proxies to elect 11 independent, highly qualified nominees to the Qualcomm board of directors at Qualcomms 2018 annual meeting of stockholders, which Qualcomm has announced will be held on March 6, 2018. We also filed a premerger notification under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 with the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission regarding our proposed acquisition of Qualcomm. No agreement has been reached with Qualcomm and there can be no assurance that any transaction will result from our proposal. Redomiciliation to the United States from Singapore On November 2, 2017, we announced our intention to initiate a process to change the ultimate parent company of the Broadcom group from a Singapore company to a U.S. corporation. The final form and timing of the redomiciliation has not yet been finalized and may be affected by the implementation of the 2017 Tax Reform Act. In addition, the redomiciliation is subject to the approval of our shareholders. We presently expect that our overall cash tax costs will approximately double, as compared to our fiscal year 2017 results, due to the redomiciliation and taking in account our initial estimates of the expected effects of the 2017 Tax Reform Act. Products and Markets Our product portfolio ranges from discrete devices to complex sub-systems that include multiple device types and may also incorporate firmware for interfacing between analog and digital systems. In some cases, our products include mechanical hardware that interfaces with optoelectronic or capacitive sensors. We focus on markets that require high quality and the technology leadership and integrated performance characteristic of our products. For the fiscal year ended October 29, 2017 , or fiscal year 2017 , our wired infrastructure segment contributed 48% , our wireless communications segment contributed 31% , our enterprise storage segment contributed 16% , and our industrial & other segment contributed 5% of our net revenue. For the fiscal year ended October 30, 2016, or fiscal year 2016, net revenue included contributions from BRCM commencing on February 1, 2016, which are included in the wired infrastructure and wireless communications segments. For the fiscal year 4 Table of Contents ended November 1, 2015, or fiscal year 2015, net revenue included contributions from Emulex Corporation, or Emulex, commencing on May 6, 2015, which are included in the enterprise storage segment. See discussion in the Results of Operations section included in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 12. Segment Information included in Part II,