Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These statements are indicated by words or phrases such as anticipate, expect, estimate, seek, plan, believe, could, intend, will, and similar words or phrases. These forward-looking statements may include projections of financial information; statements about historical results that may suggest trends for our business; statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations; statements of expectation or belief regarding future events (including any acquisitions we may make), technology developments, our products, product sales, expenses, liquidity, cash flow and growth rates, or enforceability of our intellectual property rights; and the effects of seasonality on our business. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections of our or industry performance and macroeconomic conditions, based on managements judgment, beliefs, current trends and market conditions, and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We derive most of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known factors, and it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. Accordingly, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These factors include risks associated with our acquisition of Broadcom Corporation and other acquisitions we may make, such as delays, challenges and expenses associated with integrating acquired companies with our existing businesses and our ability to achieve the growth prospects and synergies expected from acquisitions we may make, including our pending acquisition of Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.; any loss of our significant customers and fluctuations in the timing and volume of significant customer demand; our dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourced supply chain; our dependence on outsourced service providers for certain key business services and their ability to execute to our requirements; our ability to accurately estimate customers demand and adjust supply chain and third-party manufacturing capacity accordingly; dependence on a small number of markets; dependence on and risks associated with distributors of our products; quarterly and annual fluctuations in our operating results; cyclicality in the semiconductor industry or in our target markets; global economic conditions and concerns; our competitive performance and ability to continue achieving design wins with our customers, as well as the timing of those design wins; our ability to increase our internal manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand; prolonged disruptions of our or our contract manufacturers' manufacturing facilities or other significant operations; our ability to maintain or improve gross margin; our ability to maintain tax concessions in certain jurisdictions and changes in our taxes; our ability to protect our intellectual property and the unpredictability of any associated litigation expense; any expense or reputational damage associated with resolving customer product warranty and indemnification claims; our significant indebtedness, including the need to generate sufficient cash flows to service and repay such debt; and other events and trends on a national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive and regulatory nature. All of the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors listed above and those discussed under the heading Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We caution you that the foregoing list of important factors may not contain all of the material factors that are important to you. In addition, in light of these risks and uncertainties, the matters referred to in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not in fact occur. We undertake no intent or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to Broadcom, we, our and us mean Broadcom Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Broadcom Cayman L.P. References to the Partnership mean Broadcom Cayman L.P. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Financial information and results of operations presented for the periods prior to February 1, 2016 relate to Avago Technologies Limited, our predecessor, and relate to Broadcom and the Partnership for the periods after February 1, 2016. Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to October 31. We refer to our fiscal years by the calendar year in which they end. For example, the fiscal year ended October 30, 2016 is referred to as fiscal year 2016 . 1 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Broadcom Limited, or Broadcom, is the successor to Avago Technologies Limited, or Avago, as a result of the business combination between Avago and Broadcom Corporation, or BRCM, completed on February 1, 2016. We are a leading designer, developer and global supplier of a broad range of semiconductor devices with a focus on complex digital and mixed signal complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, based devices and analog III-V based products. We have a history of innovation and offer thousands of products that are used in end products such as enterprise and data center networking, home connectivity, set-top boxes, broadband access, telecommunication equipment, smartphones, data center servers and storage systems, factory automation, power generation and alternative energy systems, and electronic displays. We differentiate ourselves through our high performance design and integration capabilities and focus on developing products for target markets where we believe we can earn attractive margins. We have four reportable segments: wired infrastructure, wireless communications, enterprise storage, and industrial & other, which align with our principal target markets. The Partnership is an exempted limited partnership formed under the laws of the Cayman Islands in order to effect the business combination between Avago and BRCM. Broadcom is the sole General Partner of, and currently owns a majority interest (by vote and value) in, the Partnership. As General Partner, Broadcom has the exclusive right, power and authority to manage, control, administer and operate the business and affairs and to make decisions regarding the undertaking and business of the Partnership in accordance with the Partnerships amended and restated exempted partnership agreement, or the Partnership Agreement, and applicable laws. There is no board of directors of the Partnership. Semiconductors are made by imprinting a network of electronic components onto a semiconductor wafer. These devices are designed to perform various functions such as processing, amplifying and selectively filtering electronic signals, controlling electronic system functions and processing, transmitting and storing data. Our digital and mixed signal products are based on silicon wafers with CMOS transistors offering fast switching speeds and low power consumption, which are both critical design factors for the markets we serve. We also offer analog products, which are based on III-V semiconductor materials that have higher electrical conductivity than silicon, and thus tend to have better performance characteristics in radio frequency, or RF, and optoelectronic applications. III-V refers to elements from the 3rd and 5th groups in the periodic table of chemical elements. Examples of these materials used in our products are gallium arsenide, or GaAs, gallium nitride, or GaN, and indium phosphide, or InP. Our over 50-year history of innovation dates back to our diverse origins from Hewlett-Packard Company, AT&T, LSI Corporation, or LSI, and BRCM. Over the years, we have assembled a large team of digital, mixed signal and analog design engineers around the world. We maintain design and product development engineering resources at locations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Israel, providing us with engineering expertise worldwide. We strategically focus our research and development resources to address niche opportunities in our target markets and leverage our extensive portfolio of U.S. and other patents and other intellectual property, or IP, to integrate multiple technologies and create system-on-chip, or SoC, and component solutions that target growth opportunities. We design products that deliver high-performance and provide mission-critical functionality. Original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, or their contract manufacturers, and distributors typically account for the substantial majority of our sales. We have established strong relationships with leading OEM customers across multiple target markets. Many of our major customer relationships have been in place for many years and have often been built as a result of years of collaborative product development. This has enabled us to build our IP portfolio and develop critical expertise regarding our customers requirements, including substantial system level knowledge. This collaboration has provided us with key insights into our customers' businesses and has enabled us to be more efficient and productive and to better serve our target markets and customers. We have a direct sales force focused on supporting large OEMs. We also distribute a substantial portion of our products through our broad distribution network, and a significant amount of these sales are to large global electronic components distributors, including Avnet, Inc. We focus on maintaining an efficient global supply chain and a variable, low-cost operating model. Accordingly, we outsource a majority of our manufacturing operations, utilizing third-party foundry and assembly and test capabilities, as well as some of our corporate infrastructure functions. We focus our internal manufacturing capacity and capital expenditures on analog products that utilize our innovative materials and proprietary processes, to protect our IP and to develop the technology for manufacturing, while outsourcing standard CMOS processes. We also have a long history of operating in Asia, where approximately 41% of our employees are located and where we manufacture and source the majority of our products and materials. Our presence in Asia places us in close proximity to many of our customers manufacturing facilities and at the center of worldwide electronics manufacturing. 2 Table of Contents Recent Developments Since the acquisition of BRCM on February 1, 2016, we have divested substantially all of the non-core BRCM businesses held-for-sale, which generated aggregate cash proceeds of $830 million in fiscal year 2016. Non-core BRCM businesses sold and those still held-for-sale are presented as discontinued operations, and have been excluded from continuing operations and from segment results for all periods presented in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. On November 2, 2016, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or Brocade Agreement, with Brocade Communications Systems, Inc., or Brocade, and other parties named therein, which provides for a proposed business combination transaction between us and Brocade, or the Brocade Merger. Brocades networking solutions help the worlds leading organizations turn their networks into platforms for business innovation. With solutions spanning public and private data centers to the network edge, Brocade is a leader in Fibre channel storage area network switching and IP networking. Products and Markets Our product portfolio ranges from discrete devices to complex sub-systems that include multiple device types and may also incorporate firmware for interfacing between analog and digital systems. In some cases, our products include mechanical hardware that interfaces with optoelectronic or capacitive sensors. We focus on markets that require high quality and the integrated performance characteristics of our products. For the fiscal year ended October 30, 2016, or fiscal year 2016 , our wired infrastructure segment contributed 50% , our wireless communications segment contributed 28% , our enterprise storage segment contributed 17% , and our industrial & other segment contributed 5% of our net revenue. Fiscal year 2016 net revenue included contributions from BRCM commencing on February 1, 2016, which are included in the wired infrastructure and wireless communications segments. Fiscal year 2015 net revenue included contributions from Emulex Corporation, or Emulex, commencing on May 6, 2015, which are included in the enterprise storage segment. Fiscal year 2014 net revenue included contributions from LSI and PLX Technologies, Inc., or PLX, commencing on May 6, 2014 and August 18, 2014, respectively; LSI and PLX primarily contributed to the enterprise storage segment, with LSI also contributing to the wired infrastructure segment. See discussion in the Results of Operations section included in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 12. Segment Information included in Part II,