ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2023 included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2023, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on June 22, 2023. This discussion, particularly information with respect to our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans, and objectives of management for future operations, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should review the disclosure under the heading Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this report to C3.ai, C3 AI, the Company, we, our, us, or similar terms refer to C3.ai, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Overview C3 AI is an Enterprise AI application software company. We have built an integrated family of software applications that enables our customers to rapidly develop, deploy, and operate large-scale Enterprise AI applications across any infrastructure. Customers can deploy C3 AI solutions on all major public cloud infrastructures, private cloud or hybrid environments, or directly on their servers and processors. We provide four primary families of software solutions, which we collectively refer to as our C3 AI Software: C3 AI Platform, our core technology, is a comprehensive, end-to-end application development and runtime environment that is designed to allow our customers to rapidly design, develop, and deploy Enterprise AI applications of any type. C3 AI Applications, built using the C3 AI Platform, is a portfolio of pre-built, extensible, industry-specific and application-specific SaaS Enterprise AI applications that can be rapidly installed and deployed. C3 Generative AI Product Suite, our latest innovation, combines the utility of large language models, generative AI, reinforcement learning, natural language processing, and the C3 AI Platform to rapidly locate, retrieve, and present information, disparate data stores, applications, and enterprise information systems. C3 AI Ex Machina is a no-code, machine learning or ML, solution that empowers citizen data scientists with cloud-native, complete end-to-end capabilities, connecting to diverse data sources and types, enabling business analysts to rapidly perform data science tasks such as building, configuring, training, and visualizing AI models. These solutions, and our patented model-driven architecture, enable organizations to simplify and accelerate Enterprise AI application development, deployment, and administration. We significantly reduce the effort and complexity of the AI software engineering problem. How We Generate Revenue We generate revenue primarily from the sale of subscriptions, which accounted for 85% and 87% of our total revenue in the three months ended July 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our cloud-native software offerings allow us to manage, update, and monitor the software regardless of whether the software is deployed in our public cloud environment, in our customers self-managed private or public cloud environments, or in a hybrid environment. Our subscription contracts are generally non-cancellable and non-refundable. 27 Table of Contents Historically we primarily recognize revenue from subscriptions on a ratable basis over the contract term or on a usage basis for consumption-based arrangements. In addition, customers typically pay a usage-based runtime fee for production use of our C3 AI Software for specified levels of capacity. Customers who choose to run the software in our cloud environment pay the hosting costs charged by our cloud providers. We announced a new consumption-based pricing model, beginning with a pilot phase which includes unlimited developer access to the C3 AI Platform, one C3 AI Application and C3 AI Center of Excellence, or COE, support services. After the pilot phase ends, the customer has an option to convert to a month-to-month contract for C3 AI Software with a minimum fee and overages charged if the customer utilizes greater than a specified number of vCPU or vGPU hours in a month. Customers have the option to commit to a one-year, two-year or three-year term. Our subscriptions also include our maintenance and support services. Additionally, we offer premium stand-ready support services through our C3 AI COE which is included as part of the subscription when purchased. We also generate revenue from professional services, which primarily include implementation services, training and prioritized engineering services. Professional services revenue represented 15% and 13% of our total revenue for the three months ended July 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our professional services are provided both onsite and remotely, and can include training, application design, project management, system design, data modeling, data integration, application design, development support, data science, and application and C3 AI Software administration support. Professional services fees are based on the level of effort required to perform the specified tasks and the services are typically provided under a fixed-fee engagement with defined deliverables and a duration of less than 12 months. We recognize revenue from our professional services over the period of delivery as services are performed. Our total revenue was $72.4 million for the three months ended July 31, 2023, representing a 11% increase compared to the same period last year. Our subscription revenue grew to $61.4 million for the three months ended July 31, 2023, representing an 8% increase compared to the same period last year. Go-to-Market Strategy Our go-to-market strategy has been historically focused on large organizations recognized as leaders in their respective industries or public sectors, and who are attempting to solve complicated business problems by digitally transforming their operations. These large organizations, or lighthouse customers, include companies and public agencies within the oil and gas, power and utilities, aerospace and defense, industrial products, life sciences, and financial services industries, among others. This has resulted in C3 AI powering some of the largest and most complex Enterprise AI applications worldwide. These lighthouse customers serve as proof points for other potential customers in their particular industries. As a result, we have a customer base of a relatively small number of large organizations that generate high average total subscription contract value, but we expect that, over time, as more customers adopt our technology based on the proof points provided by these lighthouse customers, the revenue represented by these customers will decrease as a percentage of total revenue. As our C3 AI Platform and much of our other C3 AI Software are industry agnostic, we also expect to expand into other industries as we grow. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2023, we announced a change to our go-to-market strategy including a way for new customers to utilize our products at a smaller initial contract size and pay for services based on their monthly consumption of vCPU and vGPU hours. Customers generally begin with a two-quarter-long pilot which includes the necessary resources required to introduce the C3 AI Platform, C3 AI Applications and a desired product into their environment and receive necessary training to operate and maintain the product in production. Following the pilot period, customers pay a monthly fee and overage charges on a metered basis using vCPU and vGPU hours utilized as the metric to calculate payment. Customers are able to realize business value immediately after the conclusion of the pilot and grow at their own pace over subsequent quarters. Acquiring new customers and expanding our business with our existing customers is the intent of our go-to-market effort and drives our growth. Making new and existing customers successful is critical to our long-term success. After we help our customers solve their initial use cases, they typically identify incremental opportunities within their operations and expand their use of our products. The increased engagement is measured by a combination of increased vCPU usage, increased C3 AI Software subscriptions and subscriptions to the C3 AI Platform for in-house AI application development. 28 Table of Contents The size and sophistication of our customers businesses demonstrate the flexibility, speed, and scale of our products, and maximize the potential value to our customers. To be a credible partner to our customers, who often are industry leaders, we deploy a motivated and highly educated team of C3 AI personnel and partners. We go to market primarily leveraging our direct sales force. We also complement and supplement our sales force with a number of go-to-market partners. Industry Partners. We have developed an alliance program to partner with recognized leaders in their respective industries, such as Baker Hughes, Fidelity National Information Services, or FIS, and Raytheon, to develop, market, and sell solutions that are natively built on or tightly integrated with the C3 AI Platform. Hyperscale Cloud and Infrastructure. We have formed global strategic go-to-market alliances with hyperscale cloud providers including Amazon Web Services, or AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud. In addition, we have strategic alliances with leading hardware infrastructure providers to deliver our software optimized for their technology. These partners include Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Intel. These partners supply infrastructure solutions, data management and processing services, or hardware and networking devices (e.g., IoT gateways) to support C3 AI product implementations and complement C3 AIs products. Consulting and Services Partners. We partner with a number of systems integrators specializing in Enterprise AI implementations. Independent Software Vendors. We partner with Independent Software Vendors who develop, market, and sell application solutions that are natively built on or tightly integrated with the C3 AI Platform. Customer Count and Product Adoption We define a Customer-Entity as each entity that is the ultimate parent of a party contracting with us. We commonly enter into enterprise-wide agreements with Customer-Entities that include multiple operating units or divisions. Our customer composition is diverse and includes various customer segments with different purchasing decisions and pricing models. We offer a wide range of products and services, which results in a complex sales tapestry. Over the course of our history, we have continued to innovate our product offerings, expand our market reach, and evolve our business model to better serve the needs and use cases of our ever-growing customers. Today, our relationships with customers take a myriad of different forms, ranging from $25 licenses of C3 AI Ex Machina to individual data scientists, to enterprise-level limited time trials and pilots, to multi-million-dollar long-term enterprise-wide agreements for C3 AI Applications and/or the C3 AI Platform. Furthermore, the number of individual departments and divisions within our customer base using our applications and/or applications they have built on our platform has also expanded. The move to our new consumption-based pricing model, while being the right model for our business evolution, adds yet another permutation to our customer relations. While the bulk of our new business volume consists of product trials followed by consumption-based pricing, we continue to employ our historic pricing models in certain circumstances, including the expansion of existing agreements and renewals. We also have strong reseller relationships, who sell our solutions to their end customers. While this may seem inordinately complex, it is in fact appropriately complex. Our flexibility in customer arrangements speaks to our agility in working with our customers and providing value-add products and solutions through those contractual agreements and pricing arrangements most convenient to our customers, while also enabling profitability and growth for C3 AI. Over time, we have done our best to provide a quarterly customer count as a proxy to highlight the adoption and acceptance of our products and services by customers. That being said, there is so much variety in the C3 AI sales tapestry, the types of customers, the broad range of products and solutions, the disparity in contract terms, our relations with resellers, and the range of prices that, to add them together into numbers that are meaningful to compare from one quarter to the next does not fully articulate the depth and breadth of the use cases and the value-add our products and solutions provide. To help us better articulate the growth in our customer base and use cases, we retained external consultants to recommend a best-practice customer count methodology that is consistent and relies on system data and is reproducible. As a result of that review, we previously decided to change our definition to better reflect the number and level of activity of our customers, which we now define as Customer Engagement: 29 Table of Contents 1.For products and services including paid trials, one-time, subscription, and professional service offerings, we count unique contacting customers by SKU that generate revenue in a given period (i.e. if a contracting customer generates revenue across four SKUs in a period, that would be counted as four Customer Engagements). 2.For products that are priced based on unique assets to which the customer is applying our solutions, we count distinct production applications by customer asset for which the product is used. 3.For resellers and federal customers, we count the number of reseller end customers and the number of federal departments utilizing our solutions. Our best estimate of Customer Engagement was 334 and 223 as of July 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Key Business Metric We monitor remaining performance obligations, or RPO, as a key metric to help us evaluate the health of our business, identify trends affecting our growth, formulate goals and objectives, and make strategic decisions. RPO is not necessarily indicative of future revenue growth because it does not account for the timing of customers consumption or their consumption of more than their contracted capacity. Moreover, RPO is influenced by several factors, including the timing of renewals, the timing of purchases of additional capacity, average contract terms, and seasonality. Due to these factors, it is important to review RPO in conjunction with revenue and other financial metrics disclosed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. RPO was $334.6 million and $381.4 million as of July 31, 2023 and April 30, 2023, respectively. In fiscal year 2023, we successfully completed our transition from a subscription-based pricing model to a consumption-based pricing model for new customers. While the immediate-term effect of this transition lowers revenue growth and decreases RPO, we believe the medium- and long- term effect provides a substantial accelerator to revenue growth and RPO. RPO represents the amount of our contracted future revenue that has not yet been recognized, including both deferred revenue and non-cancellable contracted amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. Our RPO as of July 31, 2023 is comprised of $41.0 million related to deferred revenue and $293.6 million of commitments from non-cancellable contracts. Our RPO as of April 30, 2023 is comprised of $47.9 million related to deferred revenue and $333.5 million of commitments from non-cancellable contracts. RPO excludes amounts related to performance obligations and usage-based royalties that are billed and recognized as they are delivered. This primarily consists of monthly usage-based runtime and hosting charges in the duration of some revenue contracts. RPO also excludes any future resale commitments by our strategic partners until those end customer contracts are signed. Cancellable backlog, not included in RPO, was $46.4 million and $40.2 million as of July 31, 2023 and April 30, 2023, respectively. Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our future success and financial performance depend on a number of factors that present significant opportunities for our business but also pose risks and challenges, including those discussed below and in the section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in Part II, Item 1A titled Risk Factors, that we must successfully address to sustain our growth, improve our results of operations, and establish and maintain profitability. Customer Acquisition, Retention, and Expansion We are focused on continuing to grow our customer base, retaining existing customers and expanding customers usage of our C3 AI Software by addressing new use cases across multiple departments and divisions, adding users, and developing and deploying additional applications. All of these factors increase the adoption and relevance of our C3 AI Software to our customers business and, as an outcome, increases their runtime usage. 30 Table of Contents We have built a customer-focused culture and have implemented proactive programs and processes designed to drive customer success. These include a robust customer support and success function. For example, as part of our subscription offerings, we provide our customers with the ability to establish a COE, accessing our experienced and specialized resources in key technical areas like application development, data integration, and data science to accelerate and ensure our customers success developing applications on our C3 AI Platform. We closely monitor the health and status of every customer account through multiple activities, including real-time monitoring, daily and weekly reports to management, as well as quarterly reviews with our customers. We also intend to attract new customers across multiple industries where we have limited meaningful presence today, yet represent very large market opportunities such as telecommunications, pharmaceuticals, smart cities, transportation, and healthcare, among others. Historically, we have had a relatively small number of customers with large total subscription contract values. As a result, revenue growth can vary significantly based on the timing of customer acquisition, changes in product mix, and contract durations, renewals, or terminations. We expect the number of customers to increase compared to prior fiscal years as organizations address the importance of digital transformation. The average total subscription contract value as well as the revenue represented by our lighthouse customers as a percentage of total revenue is decreasing and we expect them to continue to decrease as we have restructured our sales organization and expanded our market-partner ecosystem to effectively address small, medium, and large enterprise sales opportunities. Going forward, we expect we will attract new customers who prefer to subscribe to the C3 AI Platform and C3 AI Applications with our consumption-based pricing model. For further discussion, see the section titled OverviewGo-to-Market Strategy included in Part I, Item 2 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Technology Innovation We intend to continue to invest in our research and development capabilities to extend our C3 AI Software, to expand within existing accounts, and to gain new customers. Our investments in research and development drive core technology innovation and bring new products to market. Our model-driven architecture enables us and our customers to rapidly address new use cases by building new applications and extending and enhancing the features and functionality of current C3 AI Software. By investing to make it easier to develop applications on our C3 AI Platform, our customers have become active developers. With our support, our customers have developed and deployed almost two-thirds of the applications currently in production and running on the C3 AI Platform. Research and development spending has fueled enhancements to our existing C3 AI Platform. We expect to maintain high levels of investment in product innovation over the coming years as we continue to introduce new applications which address new industry use cases, and new features and functionality for the C3 AI Software. As our business scales over a longer-term horizon, we anticipate research and development spend as a percent of total revenue to decline. Brand Awareness We believe we are in the early stages of a large and expanding market for AI enabled digital transformation. While we spent significantly on brand awareness over the past few years, we have recently reduced our spend on brand awareness, but continue to invest in market education, strategic paid media, and thought leadership. We engage the market through digital, radio, outdoor, airport, and print advertising; virtual and physical events, including our C3 Transform annual user conference; and C3 AI Live, a series of livestreamed events featuring C3 AI customers, C3 AI partners, and C3 AI experts in AI, ML, and data science. In the near term, we expect marketing spend to decline as a percent of total revenue as we make ongoing progress in establishing C3 AIs brand and reputation and as our business scales. 31 Table of Contents Grow Our Go-to-Market and Partnership Ecosystem In addition to the activities of our field sales organization, our success in attracting new customers will depend on our ability to expand our ecosystem of strategic partners and the number of industry verticals that they serve. Our strategic go-to-market alliances vastly extend our reach globally. Some of our most notable partners include Baker Hughes, FIS, Microsoft, and Google. Each strategic partner is a leader in its industry, with a substantial installed customer base and extensive marketing, sales, and services resources that we can leverage to engage and serve customers anywhere in the world. Using our C3 AI Platform as the development suite, we leverage our model-driven architecture to efficiently build new cross-industry and industry-specific applications based on identifying requirements across our customer base of industry leaders and through our industry partners. Our strategy with strategic partners is to establish a significant use case and prove the value of our C3 AI Platform with a flagship customer in each industry in which we participate. We have done this with our strategic vertical industry partner in oil and gas, Baker Hughes, as well as with our iconic global customers, some of whom are deploying C3 AI technology to optimize thousands of critical assets globally across their upstream, midstream, and downstream operations. We establish formal sales and marketing plans with each partner, including specific sales goals and dedicated budgets, and we work closely with these partners to identify specific target accounts. We intend to grow the business we do with each partner and to add more partners as we expand the vertical markets we serve. We also offer revenue generating pilots of our applications as part of our customer acquisition strategy. In June 2019, we entered into a three-year arrangement with Baker Hughes as both a leading customer and as a partner in the oil and gas industry. This arrangement included a subscription to our C3 AI Platform for their own operations (which we refer to below as direct subscription fees), the exclusive right for Baker Hughes to resell our offerings worldwide in the oil and gas industry, and the non-exclusive right to resell our offerings in other industries. Under the arrangement, Baker Hughes made minimum, non-cancellable, total revenue commitments to us of $50.0 million, $100.0 million, and $170.0 million, for each of the fiscal years ending April 30, 2020, 2021, and 2022, respectively. Baker Hughes revenue commitments were inclusive of their direct subscription fees of $39.5 million per year with the remainder to be generated from the resale of our solutions by the Baker Hughes sales organization. During the fiscal year ended April 30, 2020, we recognized as revenue the full value of the first year of the direct subscription agreement and the value of deals brought in by Baker Hughes through the reseller arrangement. This arrangement was revised in June 2020 to extend the term by an additional two years, for a total of five years, with an expiration date in the fiscal year ending April 30, 2024 and to modify the annual amount of Baker Hughes commitments to $53.3 million, $75.0 million, $125.0 million, and $150.0 million, over the fiscal years ending April 30, 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024, respectively. We are obligated to pay Baker Hughes a sales commission on subscriptions to our products and services offerings it resells in excess of these minimum revenue commitments. We and Baker Hughes revised this arrangement in October 2021 to extend the term by an additional year, for a total of six years, with an expiration date in the fiscal year ending April 30, 2025, to modify the amount of Baker Hughes annual commitments to $85.0 million in the fiscal year ending April 30, 2023, $110.0 million in the fiscal year ending April 30, 2024, and $125.0 million in the fiscal year ending April 30, 2025, and to revise the structure of the arrangement to incentivize Baker Hughes sales of our products and services. Beginning in the fiscal year ended April 30, 2023 and until the agreements were further revised in January 2023 as described below, Baker Hughes annual commitments were reduced by any revenue we generated from certain customers between October 2021 and January 2023. We acknowledged that Baker Hughes had met its minimum annual revenue commitment for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2022 and recognized $16.0 million of sales commission as deferred costs during the fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2021 related to this arrangement, which will be amortized over an expected period of five years. We and Baker Hughes further revised and further expanded this arrangement in January 2023. Pursuant to this revised arrangement, the frequency of payments due from Baker Hughes is accelerated, Baker Hughes obtained expanded reseller rights and we will provide additional products and services. This resulted in an increase of $32.5 million in the transaction price by eliminating potential variable consideration attributable to any revenue we generated from certain customers. We also provide Baker Hughes the option to extend the subscription term upon payment of a renewal fee. Under this revised arrangement, the amount of consideration may increase if Baker Hughes exceeds certain thresholds and as a result, we estimated variable consideration subject to the constraint guidance at the date of revised arrangement utilizing historical information and current trends. At the end of each reporting period, we will review and update the estimate as additional relevant information becomes available. 32 Table of Contents We purchase services from Baker Hughes from time to time to support our end customers in relation to our contracts with those customers. These costs are recorded as cost of subscription revenue in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. International Expansion The international market opportunity for Enterprise AI software is large and growing, and we believe there is a significant opportunity to continue to grow our international customer base. We believe that the demand for our C3 AI Software will continue growing as international awareness of the benefits of digital transformation and Enterprise AI software grows. We plan to continue to make investments to expand geographically by increasing our direct sales team in international markets and supplementing the direct sales effort with strategic partners to significantly expand our reach and market coverage. We derived approximately 15% and 21% of our total revenue for the three months ended July 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, from international customers. Impact of Macroeconomic Conditions Our business and financial condition have been, and may continue to be, impacted by adverse macroeconomic conditions and uncertainties, including labor shortages, supply chain disruptions, inflation, higher interest rates, and fluctuations or volatility in capital markets, which are causing customers to optimize consumption, rationalize budgets, and prioritize cash flow management. We will continue to evaluate the nature and extent of the impact of general macroeconomic conditions and the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. For further discussion, see the section titled Risk Factors included in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Subscription Revenue. Our subscription revenue is primarily comprised of term licenses, stand-ready COE support services, trials and pilots of our applications, and software-as-a-service offerings. Sales of our term licenses grant our customers the right to use our software, either on their own cloud instance or their internal hardware infrastructure, over the contractual term. We also offer a premium stand-ready service through our COE. Sales of our software-as-a-service offerings include a right to use our software over the contractual term. Our subscription contracts are generally non-cancellable and non-refundable, and we recognize revenue over the contract term on a ratable basis. In addition, customers pay a usage-based runtime fee for our C3 AI Software for specified levels of capacity. Our subscriptions also include our maintenance and support services, which include critical and continuous updates to the software that are integral to maintaining the intended utility of the software over the contractual term. Our software subscriptions and maintenance and support services are highly interdependent and interrelated and represent a single distinct performance obligation within the context of the contract. We currently have a small number of public utility customers that license our offerings under a perpetual license model, and we expect that may continue for the foreseeable future for certain customers due to their specific contracting requirements. Professional Services Revenue. Our professional services revenue primarily includes implementation services, training and prioritized engineering services. We offer a complete range of professional service support both onsite and remotely, including training, application design, project management, system design, data modeling, data integration, application design, development support, data science, and application and C3 AI Software administration support. Professional services fees are based on the level of effort required to perform the specified tasks and are typically a fixed-fee engagement with defined deliverables and a duration of less than 12 months. In certain cases, customers seeking increased utility from their C3 AI Suite or C3 AI Application subscriptions and engineering services are prioritized to develop and modify software features, which are typically part of our product roadmap, but on an accelerated basis. Cost of Revenue Cost of Subscription Revenue. Cost of subscription revenue consists primarily of costs related to compensation, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation and other related expenses for the production environment, support and COE staff, hosting of our C3 AI Software, including payments to outside cloud service providers, and allocated overhead and depreciation for facilities. 33 Table of Contents Cost of Professional Services Revenue. Cost of professional services revenue consists primarily of compensation, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation and other related costs associated with our professional service personnel, third-party system integration partners, and allocated overhead and depreciation for facilities. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit is total revenue less total cost of revenue. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue. Our gross margin has fluctuated historically and may continue to fluctuate from period to period based on a number of factors, including the timing and mix of the product offerings we sell as well as the geographies into which we sell, in any given period. Our subscription gross margin may experience variability over time as we continue to invest and continue to scale our business. Our professional services gross margin may also experience variability from period to period due to the use of our own resources and third-party system integration partners in connection with the performance of our fixed price agreements. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. We expect our operating expenses as a percentage of total revenue to increase as we continue to invest to grow our business. Over the long-term, we expect those percentages to stabilize and then move lower as our business matures. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist of expenditures related to advertising, media, marketing, promotional events, brand awareness activities, business development, customer success and corporate partnerships. Sales and marketing expenses also include employee-related costs, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation, and commissions for our employees engaged in sales and marketing activities, and allocated overhead and depreciation for facilities. We expect our sales and marketing expenses will increase in absolute dollar amounts as we expect to hire additional sales personnel to increase sales coverage of target industry vertical and geographic markets. We have reduced our spend on brand awareness, but continue to invest in market education, strategic paid media, and thought leadership. Consequently, we anticipate that sales and marketing expense as a percent of total revenue to decline over time. Research and Development. Our research and development efforts are aimed at continuing to develop and refine our C3 AI Software, including adding new features and modules, increasing functionality and speed, and enhancing the usability of our C3 AI Software. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation for our employees associated with research and development related activities. Research and development expenses also include cloud infrastructure costs related to our research and development efforts, and allocated overhead and depreciation for facilities. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We expect research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our existing and future product offerings. We may experience variations from period to period with our total research and development expense as a percentage of revenue as we develop and deploy new applications targeting new use cases and new industries. Over a longer horizon, we anticipate that research and development expense as a percent of total revenue to decline. General and Administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of employee-related costs, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation and other related costs associated with administrative services such as executive management and administration, legal, human resources, accounting, and finance. General and administrative expense also includes facilities costs, such as depreciation and rent expense, professional fees, and other general corporate costs, including allocated overhead and depreciation for facilities. We expect our general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to grow our business. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including expenses necessary to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange and related to compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as higher expenses for general and director and officer insurance, investor relations, and professional services. We expect that general and administrative expense as a percent of total revenue will decline over the long-term as we benefit from the scale of our business infrastructure. 34 Table of Contents Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale marketable securities. It also includes amortization of premiums and accretion of discount related to our available-for-sale marketable securities. Interest income varies each reporting period based on our average balance of cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale marketable securities during the period and market interest rates. Other (Expense) Income, Net Other (expense) income, net consists primarily of foreign currency exchange gains and losses, gains from legal settlements, losses from impairment of investments, and realized gains and losses on sales of available-for-sale marketable securities. Our foreign currency exchange gains and losses relate to transactions and asset and liability balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We expect our foreign currency gains and losses to continue to fluctuate in the future due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax provision consists of an estimate of federal, state, and foreign income taxes based on enacted federal, state, and foreign tax rates, as adjusted for allowable credits, deductions, uncertain tax positions, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our federal and state deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is not more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Revenue Subscription $ 61,352 $ 57,026 Professional services 11,010 8,282 Total revenue 72,362 65,308 Cost of revenue Subscription (1) 30,434 14,092 Professional services (1) 1,379 4,314 Total cost of revenue 31,813 18,406 Gross profit 40,549 46,902 Operating expenses Sales and marketing (1) 43,885 42,987 Research and development (1) 50,868 55,877 General and administrative (1) 19,889 21,247 Total operating expenses 114,642 120,111 Loss from operations (74,093) (73,209) Interest income 10,122 2,538 Other (expense) income, net (239) (1,021) Net loss before provision for income taxes (64,210) (71,692) Provision for income taxes 148 179 Net loss $ (64,358) $ (71,871) 35 Table of Contents ________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cost of subscription $ 8,056 $ 4,272 Cost of professional services 460 1,071 Sales and marketing 16,779 16,779 Research and development 17,033 25,217 General and administrative 8,552 9,291 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 50,880 $ 56,630 The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 Revenue Subscription 85 % 87 % Professional services 15 13 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue Subscription 42 22 Professional services 2 6 Total cost of revenue 44 28 Gross profit 56 72 Operating expenses Sales and marketing 61 66 Research and development 70 86 General and administrative 27 33 Total operating expenses 158 185 Loss from operations (102) (113) Interest income 14 4 Other (expense) income, net (2) Net loss before provision for income taxes (89) (111) Provision for income taxes Net loss (89) % (111) % Comparison of the Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenue Three Months Ended July 31, $ Change % Change 2023 2022 (in thousands) Revenue Subscription $ 61,352 $ 57,026 $ 4,326 8 % Professional services 11,010 8,282 2,728 33 % Total revenue $ 72,362 $ 65,308 $ 7,054 11 % 36 Table of Contents Subscription revenue accounted for 85% and 87% of our total revenue for the three months ended July 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Subscription revenue increased 8% for the three months ended July 31, 2023, compared to the same period last year. Approximately 17% and 16%, respectively, of the total subscription revenue was attributable to revenue from new customers, and the remaining 83% and 84%, respectively, was attributable to revenue related to net growth from existing customers for the three months ended July 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The revenue from existing customers included a decrease in revenue of $5.7 million related to the Baker Hughes arrangement for the three months ended July 31, 2023, compared to the same period last year. Professional services revenue increased by $2.7 million, or 33%, for the three months ended July 31, 2023, compared to the same period last year, predominantly due to an increase in professional services by $2.0 million as a result of an increase in the number of service projects for C3 AI Platform and C3 AI Applications customers, and an increase in prioritized engineering services by $0.7 million. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended July 31, $ Change % Change 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cost of revenue Subscription $ 30,434 $ 14,092 $ 16,342 116 % Professional services 1,379 4,314 (2,935) (68) % Total cost of revenue $ 31,813 $ 18,406 $ 13,407 73 % The increase in cost of subscription revenue for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period last year was primarily due to higher personnel-related costs of $11.2 million as a result of increased headcount and overall costs to support the growth in our business, and increased stock-based compensation primarily related to additional equity awards granted to current and new employees, higher data center costs of $2.2 million, higher facilities costs of $0.9 million, and higher third-party outsourcing costs of $0.7 million. The decrease in cost of professional services revenue for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period last year was primarily due to lower personnel related costs of $1.7 million, lower overhead costs of $1.0 million, and the mix of services. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended July 31, $ Change % Change 2023 2022 (in thousands) Gross profit $ 40,549 $ 46,902 $ (6,353) (14) % Gross margin Subscription 50 % 75 % Professional services 87 % 48 % Total gross margin 56 % 72 % The decrease in total gross margins for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period last year was driven by a decline in subscription margin, offset by an increase in professional service margin. The subscription margin for the three months ended July 31, 2023 decreased due to higher personnel related costs as a result of increased headcount and overall costs to support the growth in our business, and increased stock-based compensation primarily related to additional equity awards granted to current and new employees, compared to the same period last year. The professional service margin for the three months ended July 31, 2023 increased primarily due to the mix of professional services provided, including an increase in prioritized engineering services, which generally have higher margins, offset by lower personnel-related costs compared to the same period last year. 37 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Three Months Ended July 31, $ Change % Change 2023 2022 (in thousands) Operating expenses Sales and marketing $ 43,885 $ 42,987 $ 898 2 % Research and development 50,868 55,877 (5,009) (9) % General and administrative 19,889 21,247 (1,358) (6) % Total operating expenses $ 114,642 $ 120,111 $ (5,469) (5) % Sales and Marketing. The increase in sales and marketing expense for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period last year was primarily due to higher marketing costs of $2.7 million, and higher overhead costs of $0.8 million, partially offset by lower advertising spend of $2.3 million, and lower personnel-related costs of $0.2 million. Research and Development. The decrease in research and development expense for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period last year was primarily due to lower personnel-related costs of $4.9 million, and lower C3.ai DTI contributions of $2.9 million, partially offset by higher hosting costs of $1.9 million, and higher facilities costs of $0.9 million. General and Administrative. The decrease in general and administrative expense for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period last year was primarily due to lower personnel-related costs of $2.2 million, and lower corporate insurance costs of $0.5 million, partially offset by higher professional services costs of $1.3 million. Interest Income Three Months Ended July 31, $ Change % Change 2023 2022 (in thousands) Interest income $ 10,122 $ 2,538 $ 7,584 299 % The increase in interest income for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period last year was primarily due to investments in higher expected returns securities such as corporate debt securities. Other (Expense) Income, Net Three Months Ended July 31, $ Change % Change 2023 2022 (in thousands) Other (expense) income, net $ (239) $ (1,021) $ 782 (77) % The decrease in other (expense) income, net for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period last year was primarily due to foreign currency losses on the remeasurement of Euro-denominated cash and accounts receivable balances. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended July 31, $ Change % Change 2023 2022 (in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 148 $ 179 $ (31) (17) % The change in provision for income taxes for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared with the same period last year was primarily related to foreign and state tax expense. 38 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measure In addition to our financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP, we believe free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is useful in evaluating liquidity and provides information to management and investors about our ability to fund future operating needs and strategic initiatives. We calculate free cash flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs. Free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool, and it should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of other GAAP financial measures, such as net cash used in operating activities. This non-GAAP financial measure may be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Additionally, the utility of free cash flow is further limited as it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balances for a given period. The following table below provides a reconciliation of free cash flow to the GAAP measure of net cash provided by (used in) operating activities for the periods presented. Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 3,936 $ (38,258) Less: Purchases of property and equipment (11,338) (15,536) Capitalized software development costs (1,500) (1,000) Free cash flow $ (8,902) $ (54,794) Net cash used in investing activities $ (84,800) $ (80,474) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 2,477 $ 1,087 Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through sales generated from our customers and sales of equity securities. As of July 31, 2023 and April 30, 2023, we had $206.4 million and $284.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and $603.1 million and $527.6 million of investments, respectively, which were held for working capital purposes. Our short-term and long-term investments generally consist of high-grade U.S. treasury securities, certificates of deposit, U.S. government agency securities, commercial paper and corporate debt securities. We have generated operating losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $874.6 million as of July 31, 2023. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and generate negative cash flows from operations in the next few quarters due to the investments we intend to make in our business, and as a result we may require additional capital to execute on our strategic initiatives to grow the business, but continue on-track with our plan for profitability, with the goal of achieving a sustainable non-GAAP profitable business by the end of fiscal year 2025. We are substantially reducing spending that does not directly impact revenue to accelerate our path to profitability and to increase our significant cash resources. We believe that existing cash and cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. We believe we will meet longer-term expected future cash requirements and obligations through a combination of cash flows from operating activities and available cash balances. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have been funding our operations and investing in capital expenditures. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, the timing and the amount of cash received from customers, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, expenses associated with our international expansion, the introduction of C3 AI Software enhancements, and the continuing market adoption of our C3 AI Software. In the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. If we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 39 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 3,936 $ (38,258) Cash used in investing activities $ (84,800) $ (80,474) Cash provided by financing activities $ 2,477 $ 1,087 Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ (78,387) $ (117,645) Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities of $3.9 million for the three months ended July 31, 2023 was due to $18.0 million cash inflows related to changes in operating assets and liabilities, offset by our net loss of $64.4 million adjusted for certain non-cash items, primarily consisting of stock-based compensation of $50.9 million, depreciation and amortization of $3.1 million, and non-cash operating lease cost of $0.3 million. The $18.0 million cash inflows related to changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily attributable to a decrease in accounts receivable of $12.0 million inclusive of a decrease in related party balances of $12.4 million, an increase in lease liabilities of $8.2 million, a decrease in prepaid expenses, other current assets and other assets of $3.1 million, and an increase in other liabilities of $2.3 million. This was partially offset by cash inflows related to a decrease to deferred revenue of $6.9 million, and a decrease in accounts payable of $0.6 million. Net cash used in operating activities of $38.3 million for the three months ended July 31, 2022 was due to our net loss of $71.9 million adjusted for non-cash charges for stock-based compensation of $56.6 million, depreciation and amortization of $1.5 million, and non-cash operating lease cost of $1.9 million. The $26.4 million cash outflow related to changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily attributable to a decrease in accounts payable of $21.3 million, a decrease to deferred revenue of $5.5 million inclusive of an increase in related party balances of $0.1 million, a decrease in lease liabilities of $1.0 million, a decrease in other liabilities of $1.1 million, a decrease in lease liabilities of $1.0 million, and an increase in accounts receivable of $0.9 million inclusive of an increase in related party balances of $2.2 million. This was partially offset by cash inflows related to a decrease in prepaid expenses, other current assets and other assets of $2.9 million, and an increase to accrued compensation and employee benefits of $0.5 million. Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities of $84.8 million for the three months ended July 31, 2023 was primarily attributable to purchases of investments of $322.5 million and capital expenditures of $12.8 million mainly related to the leasehold improvements associated with the new leased space, partially offset by maturities and sales of investments of $250.6 million. Net cash used in investing activities of $80.5 million for the three months ended July 31, 2022 was primarily attributable to purchases of investments of $226.4 million and capital expenditures of $16.5 million mainly related to the leasehold improvements associated with the new leased space, offset by the maturities and sales of investments of $162.4 million. Financing Activities. Net cash provided by financing activities of $2.5 million during the three months ended July 31, 2023 was due to $9.6 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options for Class A common stock, offset by $7.1 million of taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards. Net cash provided by financing activities of $1.1 million during the three months ended July 31, 2022 was due to $1.1 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options for Class A common stock. 40 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our contractual obligations and commitments primarily consist of operating lease commitments for our facilities and non-cancellable purchase commitments related to third-party cloud hosting services. For additional information, refer to Note 6. Commitments and Contingencies to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Except as already disclosed in Note 6. Commitments and Contingencies to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, there has been no other material change in our contractual obligations and commitments other than in the ordinary course of business since our fiscal year ended April 30, 2023. See our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2023, which was filed with the SEC on June 22, 2023, for additional information regarding our contractual obligations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates discussed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2023, which was filed with the SEC on June 22, 2023. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1. Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. 41 Table of Contents