Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Core Operating Income, we believe this price drop is the economic equivalent of net interest carry income (interest income less implied financing cost) earned from the underlying agency MBS over the roll period, which is commonly referred to as dollar roll income. Consequently, dollar roll transactions represent a form of off-balance sheet financing. In evaluating our overall leverage at risk, we consider both our on-balance and off-balance sheet financing. Risk Management Strategy In conducting our business, we are exposed to market risks, including interest rate, prepayment, extension, spread, credit, liquidity and regulatory risks. We use a variety of strategies to manage a portion of our exposure to these risks to the extent we believe to be prudent, taking into account our investment strategy and the cost of any hedging transactions. As a result, we may not hedge certain interest rate, prepayment, extension, or credit risks if we believe that bearing such risks enhances our return relative to our risk/return profile. Our interest rate hedging instruments are generally not designed to protect our net book value from spread risk (also referred to as basis risk), which is the risk of an increase of the spread between the market yield on our mortgage investments and the benchmark yield on U.S. Treasury securities or interest rate swaps. Interest Rate Risk We hedge some of our exposure to potential interest rate mismatches between the interest we earn on our long-term investments and the interest we pay on our short-term borrowings. We enter into various hedging transactions to mitigate the interest rate sensitivity of our cost of borrowing and the value of our fixed-rate agency MBS or other fixed-rate mortgage investments. Because a majority of our funding is in the form of repurchase agreements, our financing costs fluctuate based on short-term interest rate indices, such as LIBOR. Because our agency MBS are assets that have fixed rates of interest and generally mature in up to 30 years, the interest we earn on these assets generally does not move in tandem with the interest rates that we pay on our repurchase agreements, which generally have a maturity of less than 60 days. In addition, as interest rates rise, the fair value of our fixed-rate agency MBS may be expected to decline. We may experience reduced income, losses, or a significant reduction in our book value due to adverse interest rate movements. In order to attempt to mitigate a portion of such risk, we utilize certain hedging techniques to attempt to economically lock in a portion of the net spread between the interest we earn on our assets and the interest we pay on our financing costs and to protect our net book value. Additionally, because prepayments on residential mortgages generally accelerate when interest rates decrease and slow when interest rates increase, mortgage securities typically exhibit negative convexity. In other words, certain mortgage securities in which we invest may increase in value to a lesser degree than similar duration bonds, or even fall in value, as interest rates decline. Conversely, certain mortgage securities in which we invest may decrease in value to a greater degree than similar duration bonds as interest rates increase. In order to manage this risk, we monitor, among other things, the duration gap between our mortgage assets and our hedge portfolio as well as our convexity exposure. Duration is an estimate of the relative expected percentage change in market value of our mortgage assets or our hedge portfolio that would be caused by a parallel change in short and long-term interest rates. Convexity exposure relates to the way the duration of our mortgage assets or our hedge portfolio changes when the interest rate or prepayment environment changes. The value of our mortgage assets may also be adversely impacted by fluctuations in the shape of the yield curve or by changes in the market's expectation about the volatility of future interest rates. We analyze our exposure to non-parallel changes in interest rates and to changes in the market's expectation of future interest rate volatility and take actions to attempt to mitigate these exposures. Prepayment Risk Because residential borrowers have the option to prepay their mortgage loans at par at any time, we face the risk that we will experience a return of principal on our investments more quickly than anticipated, which we refer to as prepayment risk. 5 Prepayment risk generally increases w hen interest rates decline. In this scenario, our financial results may be adversely affected as we may have to re-invest that principal at potentially lower yields. We may purchase securities that have a higher interest rate than the then-prevailing market interest rate. In exchange for this higher interest rate, we may pay a premium to par value to acquire such securities. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as consistently applied in the United States (GAAP), we amortize this premium as a reduction to interest income usung the contractual effective interest method such that a proportional amount of the unamortized premium is amortized as principal prepayments occur. If a security is prepaid in whole or in part at a faster rate than originally expected, we will amortize the purchase premium at a faster pace, resulting in a lower effective return on our investment than originally expected. We may also purchase securities that have a lower interest rate than the then-prevailing market interest rate. In exchange for this lower interest rate, we may pay a discount to par value to acquire such securities. In accordance with GAAP, we accrete this discount as an increase to interest income using the contractual effective interest method such that a proportional amount of the unamortized discount is accreted as principal prepayments occur. If a security is prepaid in whole or in part at a slower rate than originally expected, we will accrete the purchased discount at a slower pace resulting in a lower effective return on our investment than originally expected. Extension Risk Because residential borrowers have the option to make only scheduled payments on their mortgage loans, rather than prepay their mortgage loans, we face the risk that a return of capital on our investment will occur more slowly than anticipated, which we refer to as extension risk. Extension risk generally increases when interest rates rise. In this scenario, our financial results may be adversely affected as we may have to finance our investments at potentially higher costs without the ability to reinvest principal into higher yielding securities. Spread Risk Because the spread between the market yield on our investments and benchmark interest rates, such as U.S. Treasury rates and interest rate swap rates, may vary, we are exposed to spread risk. The inherent spread risk associated with our mortgage investments and the resulting fluctuations in fair value of these securities can occur independent of interest rates and may relate to other factors impacting the mortgage and fixed income markets, such as actual or anticipated monetary policy actions by the U.S. Federal Reserve, liquidity, or changes in market participants required rates of return on different assets. Consequently, while we use interest rate derivative instruments to attempt to protect our net book value against changes in benchmark interest rates, such instruments typically will not mitigate spread risk and, therefore, the value of our mortgage investments and our net book value could decline. We generally do not hedge the spread risk inherent in our mortgage investments. Credit Risk Investments in residential and commercial mortgage loans and non-agency MBS collateralized by such loans are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss. The ability of the borrower to repay a loan secured by either residential or commercial property is dependent upon the income of the borrower. In the event of a default under a mortgage, the holder of the mortgage loan bears the risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the unpaid principal balance and accrued interest of the mortgage loan. For our mortgage credit investments, we accept mortgage credit exposure at levels we deem prudent within the context of our overall investment strategy. We may retain all or a portion of the credit risk on the loans underlying non-agency MBS in which we may invest. We seek to manage our credit risk through prudent asset selection, pre-acquisition due diligence, post-acquisition performance monitoring, and the sale of assets for which we identify negative credit trends. Additionally, we vary the percentage mix of our agency MBS and mortgage credit investments in an effort to actively adjust our credit exposure and to improve the risk/return profile of our investment portfolio. Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due because of our inability to liquidate assets or obtain funding. Upon the maturity of our repurchase agreement financing, we may be unable to obtain repurchase agreement funding and may be required to sell assets, potentially at a loss. Liquidity risk also includes the risk that we are unable to fund daily margin requirements under our repurchase agreement financing or hedging instruments. Repurchase agreements contain provisions that require us to pledge additional assets daily to 6 the repurchase agreement counterparty in the event the estimated fair value of the existing pledged collateral declines and such lender demands additional collateral, which may take the form of additional securities or cash. Interest rate hedging inst ruments also contain provisions that require us to exchange daily cash variation margin with the counterparty based upon daily changes in the fair value of the interest rate hedging instruments. Regulatory Risk Regulatory risk is the risk of loss, including fines, penalties or restrictions in our activities from failing to comply with current or future federal, state or local laws (including federal and state securities laws), and rules and regulations pertaining to financial services activities, including the loss of our exclusion from regulation as an investment company under the 1940 Act. We attempt to manage the above risks through the use of interest rate hedging instruments, asset selection and monitoring our overall leverage levels. One of the principal instruments that we use to hedge a portion of our exposure to interest rate, prepayment and extension risks are interest rate hedging instruments primarily consisting of interest rate swaps and U.S. Treasury note futures. We also may use other interest rate hedging instruments such as options on U.S. Treasury note futures, options on agency MBS, Eurodollar futures, interest rate swap futures, interest rate swaptions, and short TBA positions, from time to time. In addition to the hedging instruments discussed above, we also manage our exposure to interest rate, prepayment, extension and credit risk through asset selection. Agency MBS with different original maturities, coupons, vintage and loan collateral characteristics will generally perform differently in various economic and interest rate environments. We generally seek to invest in agency MBS that are specifically selected for their relatively lower propensity for prepayment. The pools of residential mortgage loans securing these agency MBS are commonly referred to as specified pools. These specified pools may include mortgage loans that (i) have low loan balances, (ii) are originated through the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) or some other government program, (iii) are originated in certain states or geographic areas, (iv) have high loan-to-value ratios, (v) are the obligations of borrowers with credit scores that fall toward the lower end of the range of GSEs underwriting standards, or (vi) are secured by investor properties. The borrowers of these mortgage loans are believed to have less incentive to refinance. Accordingly, agency MBS collateralized by mortgage loans with these characteristics are believed to be better protected from prepayment risk than agency MBS collateralized by more generic pools of mortgage loans. In general, agency MBS backed by specified pools trade at a price premium over generic agency TBA securities. As of December 31, 2019, our agency MBS portfolio is comprised primarily of securities backed by specified pools selected for their lower prepayment characteristics. To the extent that we employ greater leverage in our investment strategy, our exposure to the above market risks will generally be greater. Accordingly, we carefully monitor our overall leverage levels to manage our exposure to interest rate, prepayment, extension, spread and credit risks. The risk management actions we take may lower our earnings and dividends in the short term to further our objective of maintaining attractive levels of earnings and dividends over the long term. In addition, some of our hedges are intended to provide protection against larger rate moves and, as a result, may be relatively ineffective for smaller changes in interest rates. There can be no certainty that our projections of our exposures to interest rate, prepayment, extension, credit or other risks will be accurate or that our hedging activities will be effective and, therefore, actual results could differ materially. Competition Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire our targeted mortgage investments at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring these assets, we compete with mortgage finance and specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, mortgage real estate investment trusts, investment banking firms, other lenders, the U.S. Treasury, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, other governmental bodies, and other entities. In addition, there are numerous entities with similar asset acquisition objectives and others may be organized in the future which may increase competition for the available supply of our targeted mortgage investments that meet our investment objectives. Additionally, our investment strategy is dependent on the amount of financing available to us in the repurchase agreement market, which may also be impacted by competing borrowers. Our investment strategy will be adversely impacted if we are not able to secure financing on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, competition is intense for the recruitment and retention of qualified professionals. Our ability to continue to compete effectively in our businesses will depend upon our continued ability to attract new professionals and retain and motivate our existing professionals. For a further discussion of the competitive factors affecting our business, see Item 1A - Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 7 Our Tax Status We intend to elect to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code upon filing our tax return for our taxable year ended December 31, 2019. As a REIT, we are required to distribute annually 90% of our REIT taxable income (subject to certain adjustments). So long as we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will generally not be subject to U.S. federal or state corporate income taxes on our taxable income that we distribute to our shareholders on a timely basis. Any amounts not distributed are subject to U.S. federal and state corporate taxes. At present, it is our intention to distribute 100% of our taxable income, although we will not be required to do so. We intend to make distributions of our taxable income within the time limits prescribed by the Internal Revenue Code, which may extend into the subsequent taxable year. For our tax years ended December 31, 2018 and earlier, we were taxed as a C corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to continually meet requirements imposed upon REITs by the Internal Revenue Code, including satisfying certain organizational requirements, an annual distribution requirement and quarterly asset and annual income tests. The REIT asset and income tests are significant to our operations as they restrict the extent to which we can invest in certain types of securities and conduct certain hedging activities within the REIT. Income Tests To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income requirements on an annual basis: 1. At least 75% of our gross income for each taxable year generally must be derived from investments in real property or mortgages on real property. 2. At least 95% of our gross income for each taxable year generally must be derived from some combination of income that qualifies under the 75% gross income test described above, as well as other dividends, interest, gains from the sale or disposition of stock or securities, which need not have any relation to real property. Interest income and gains from the disposition of obligations secured by mortgages on real property, such as agency MBS, constitute qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test described above. There is no direct authority with respect to the qualification of income or gains from TBAs for the 75% gross income test; however, we treat income and gains from commitments to purchase TBAs as qualifying income under the 75% gross income test based on an opinion of legal counsel. Income earned by a taxable REIT subsidiary (TRS) is not attributable to the REIT. As a result, income that might not be qualifying income for the purpose of the income tests applicable to a REIT could be earned by a TRS without affecting our status as a REIT. A TRS is an entity that is taxable as a corporation in which we directly or indirectly own the stock and that elects with us to be treated as a TRS. Income and gains from instruments that we use to hedge the interest rate risk associated with our borrowings incurred, or to be incurred, to acquire real estate assets will generally be excluded from both gross income tests, provided that specified requirements are met. To the extent that we enter into hedging instruments that are not a hedge of our interest rate risk associated with our borrowings incurred to acquire real estate assets or are not properly designated as such, the gross income and gains from such hedging transactions will likely be treated as nonqualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test and may also be treated as nonqualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. However, we may conduct such hedging activities through a TRS, the income of which may be subject to income tax rather than participating in the arrangements directly through the REIT. Asset Tests At the close of each calendar quarter, we must satisfy five gross asset tests relating to the nature of our assets: 1. At least 75% of the value of our assets must be represented by some combination of real estate assets, cash, cash items, U.S. Government securities, stock in other REITs and debt instruments of publicly offered REITs, and, under some circumstances, temporary investments in stock or debt instruments purchased with new capital. For this purpose, interests in mortgage loans secured by real property such as agency MBS are treated as real estate assets. Assets that do not qualify for purposes of the 75% asset test are subject to the additional tests described below. 2. The value of any one issuers securities that we own may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets. 3. We may not own more than 10% of any issuers outstanding securities, as measured by either voting power or value. The 5% and 10% asset tests do not apply to securities of TRSs and qualified REIT subsidiaries and the 10% test does not apply to straight debt having specified characteristics and to certain other securities. 8 4. The aggregate value of all securities of all TRSs that we hold may not exceed 20% of the value of our total assets. 5. No more than 25% of the total value of our assets may be represented by certain non-mortgage debt instruments issued by publicly offered REITs. If we should fail to satisfy the income or asset tests, such a failure would not cause us to lose our REIT qualification if we were able to eliminate the discrepancy within a specified cure period, in the case of the asset tests, satisfy certain relief provisions and pay any applicable penalty taxes and other fines. Please refer to the Risks Related to Taxation in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10-K for further discussion of REIT qualification requirements and related items. Net Operating Loss and Net Capital Loss Carryforwards As of December 31, 2019, we had estimated net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of $14.6 million that can be used to reduce our future distribution requirements. Our NOL carryforwards expire in 2028. As of December 31, 2019, we also had estimated net capital loss (NCL) carryforwards of $283.3 million that can be used to offset future net capital gains. The scheduled expirations of our NCL carryforwards are $102.3 million in 2020, $66.9 million in 2021, $3.8 million in 2022 and $110.3 million in 2023. Our ability to use our NOLs, NCLs and built-in losses would be limited if we experienced an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. In general, an ownership change would occur if there is a cumulative change in the ownership of our common stock of more than 50% by one or more 5% shareholders during a three-year period. Our Board of Directors adopted and our shareholders approved a shareholder rights agreement and the first amendment thereto, in an effort to protect against a possible limitation on the our ability to use our NOL carryforwards, NCL carryforwards, and built-in losses under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Rights Plan was adopted to dissuade any person or group from acquiring 4.9% or more of our outstanding Class A common stock without the approval of our Board of Directors and triggering an ownership change as defined by Section 382. Our Exclusion from Regulation as an Investment Company We intend to operate so as to be excluded from regulation under the 1940 Act. We rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act, which provides an exclusion for entities that are primarily engaged in purchasing or otherwise acquiring . . . interests in real estate. Section 3(c)(5)(C) as interpreted by the staff of the SEC provides an exclusion from registration for a company if at least 55% of its assets, on an unconsolidated basis, consist of qualified assets such as whole loans and whole pool agency certificates, and if at least 80% of its assets, on an unconsolidated basis, are real estate related assets. We will need to ensure not only that we qualify for an exclusion or exemption from regulation under the 1940 Act, but also that each of our subsidiaries qualifies for such an exclusion or exemption. We intend to maintain our exclusion by monitoring the value of our interests in our subsidiaries. We may not be successful in this regard. If we fail to maintain our exclusion or secure a different exclusion or exemption if necessary, we may be required to register as an investment company, or we may be required to acquire or dispose of assets in order to meet our exemption. Any such asset acquisitions or dispositions may include assets that we would not acquire or dispose of in the ordinary course of business, may be at unfavorable prices and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. If we are required to register under the 1940 Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the 1940 Act), and portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. Accordingly, registration under the 1940 Act could limit our ability to follow our current investment and financing strategies and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Available Information Our SEC filings are available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and at the internet website maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov and on our website at http://www.arlingtonasset.com under Investor Relations. Our website address is http://www.arlingtonasset.com. We make available free of charge through our website this Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as well as the annual report to shareholders and Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition, our Bylaws, Statement of Business Principles (our code of ethics), Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the charters of our Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees are available on our website and are available in print, without charge, to any shareholder upon written request in writing c/o our Secretary at 6862 Elm Street, Suite 320, McLean, Virginia 22101. 9 Information on our web site should not be deemed to be a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. Employees As of December 31, 2019, we had 11 employees. Our employees are not subject to any collective bargaining agreement, and we believe that we have good relations with our employees. 10 ITEM 1A. RI SK FACTORS Investing in our company involves various risks, including the risk that you might lose your entire investment. Our results of operations depend upon many factors including our ability to implement our business strategy, the availability of opportunities to acquire assets, the level and volatility of interest rates, the cost and availability of short- and long-term credit, financial market conditions and general economic conditions. The following discussion concerns the material risks associated with our business. These risks are interrelated, and you should consider them as a whole. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also materially and adversely affect the value of our capital stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. In connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including these risk factors and elsewhere, you should carefully review the section entitled Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Information. Risks Related to our Investing and Financing Activities Changes in interest rates and adverse market conditions could negatively affect the value of our MBS investments and increase the cost of our borrowings, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed-rate agency MBS with long-term maturities. The majority of our funding is in the form of repurchase agreements with short-term maturities with a floating interest rate based on LIBOR (which is under reform and may be replaced). We are exposed to interest rate risk that fluctuates based on changes in the level or volatility of interest rates and in the shape and slope of the yield curve. Under a normal yield curve, long-term interest rates are higher relative to short-term interest rates. In certain instances, the yield curve can become inverted when the short-term interest rates are higher than the long-term interest rates. A significant risk associated with our portfolio of mortgage-related assets is the risk that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. If long-term rates were to increase significantly, the market value of fixed-rate agency MBS would decline and the duration and weighted average life of these MBS would increase. We could realize a loss in the future if the agency MBS in our portfolio are sold. If short-term interest rates were to increase, the financing costs on the repurchase agreements we enter into in order to finance the purchase of MBS would increase, thereby decreasing net interest margin if all other factors remain constant. Hedging against interest rate exposure may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk and may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We engage in certain hedging transactions to limit our exposure from the adverse effects of changes in interest rates on the borrowing costs of our short-term financing agreements and the value of our fixed-rate agency MBS investment portfolio, and therefore may expose our company to the risks associated with such transactions. We have historically entered into and may enter into interest rate swap agreements, U.S. Treasury note futures, Eurodollar futures, interest rate swap futures, options on U.S. Treasury note futures, options on agency MBS, TBAs or may pursue other hedging strategies. Our hedging activities are generally designed to limit certain exposures and not to eliminate them. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. There are no perfect hedging strategies, and interest rate hedging may fail to protect us from loss. The success of our hedging transactions depends on our ability to accurately predict movements of interest rates and credit spreads. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Furthermore, our hedging strategies may adversely affect us because hedging activities involve costs that we incur regardless of the effectiveness of the hedging activity, which may decrease our net interest margin. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal prepayments, the amount of leverage, the type of MBS held, the form and tenor of financing arrangements, and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; 11 the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related asset or liability; the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions other than hedging transactions that satisfy certain requirements of the Internal Revenue Code or that are done through a TRS is limited by Federal tax provisions governing REITs; the value of our interest rate hedges declines due to interest rate fluctuations, lapse of time or other factors; and the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Our hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings and result in volatile fluctuations in the fair value of our hedges, net income and book value per share, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders and the value of your investment in our securities. Our hedging strategies are generally not designed to mitigate spread risk. When the market spread widens between the yield on our mortgage assets and benchmark interest rates, our net book value could decline if the fair value of our mortgage assets falls by more than the offsetting fair value increases on our hedging instruments tied to the underlying benchmark interest rates or if the fair value of our mortgage assets do not increase as much as the fair value decreases on our hedging instruments. We refer to this scenario as an example of spread risk or basis risk. The spread risk associated with our mortgage assets and the resulting fluctuations in fair value of these securities can occur independently of changes in benchmark interest rates and may relate to other factors impacting the mortgage and fixed income markets, such as actual or anticipated monetary policy actions by the Federal Reserve, market liquidity, changes in expected prepayments, or changes in required rates of return on different assets. Consequently, while we use various interest rate hedging instruments to attempt to protect against moves in interest rates, such instruments typically will not protect our net book value against spread risk, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Declines in the market values of our investment portfolio may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and market price of your investments in our securities. Our investments are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value reported in net income. As a result, a decline in the fair value of our investments would reduce our net income and book value per share. Fair values for our investments can be volatile. The fair values can change rapidly and significantly, and changes can result from various factors, including changes in interest rates, actual and perceived risk, supply, demand, expected prepayment rates, and actual and projected credit performance. Declines in the market values of our investment portfolio would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and market price of your investments in our securities. Our mortgage investing strategy involves significant leverage, which could adversely affect our operations and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We may increase our investment exposure in MBS or other investment opportunities by funding a portion of those acquisitions with repurchase agreements or other borrowing arrangements. To the extent that revenue derived from such levered assets exceeds our interest expense, hedging expense and other costs of the financing, our net income will be greater than if we had not borrowed funds and had not invested in such assets on a leveraged basis. Conversely, if the revenue from our MBS does not sufficiently cover the interest expense, hedging expense and other costs of the financing, our net income will be less or our net loss will be greater than if we had not borrowed funds. Because of the credit and interest rate risks inherent in our strategy, we closely monitor the leverage of our investment portfolio. From time to time, our leverage ratio may increase or decrease due to several factors, including changes in the value of the underlying portfolio, changes in investment allocations and the timing and amount of acquisitions. An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our assets may impair our profitability and thus our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. As our repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowings mature, we must either enter into new borrowings or liquidate certain of our investments at times when we might not otherwise choose to do so. Lenders may also seek to use a maturity date as an opportune time to demand additional terms or increased collateral requirements that could be adverse to us and harm our operations. Due to the short-term nature of our repurchase agreements used to finance our investments, our borrowing costs are particularly sensitive to changes in short-term interest rates. An increase in short-term interest rates when we seek new borrowings would reduce the spread between our returns on our assets and the cost of our borrowings. This would reduce the returns on our assets, which might reduce earnings and in turn cash available for distribution to our shareholders. 12 Differences in the stated maturity of our fixed-rate assets and short-term borrowings may adversely affect our profitability. We rely primarily on short-term, variable rate borrowings to acquire fixed-rate securities with long-term maturities. The relationship between short-term and longer-term interest rates is often referred to as the yield curve. Ordinarily, short-term interest rates are lower than longer-term interest rates. If short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to longer-term interest rates, resulting in a flattening of the yield curve, our borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on our assets. Because our investments generally bear interest at longer-term rates than we pay on our borrowings under our repurchase agreements, a flattening of the yield curve would tend to decrease our net interest income and the market value of our investment portfolio. Additionally, to the extent cash flows from investments that return scheduled and unscheduled principal are reinvested, the spread between the yields on the new investments and available borrowing rates may decline, which would likely decrease our net income. It is also possible that short-term interest rates may exceed longer-term interest rates (a yield curve inversion), in which event, our borrowing costs may exceed our interest income and we could incur operating losses and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be hindered. Our lenders may require us to provide additional collateral, especially when the market values for our investments decline, which may restrict us from leveraging our assets as fully as desired, and reduce or eliminate our liquidity, earnings and cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We currently use repurchase agreements to finance our investments in residential MBS and other mortgage assets. Our repurchase agreements allow the lenders, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions. If the market value of the securities pledged or sold by us to a funding source declines in value, we may be required by the lender to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced on minimal notice, which is known as a margin call. Posting additional collateral will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets, which could adversely affect our business. Additionally, in order to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur further losses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may impair our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy these margin calls, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness, increase our borrowing rates, liquidate our collateral and terminate our ability to borrow. Such a situation would likely result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and possibly necessitate a filing for protection under the bankruptcy code. Clearing facilities or exchanges upon which some of our hedging instruments are traded may increase margin requirements on our hedging instruments in the event of adverse economic developments. Our interest rate hedging agreements typically require that we pledge collateral on such agreements. We exchange collateral with the counterparties to our interest rate hedging instruments at least on a daily basis based upon daily changes in fair value (also known as variation margin) as measured by the central clearinghouse through which those instruments are cleared. In addition, the central clearinghouse requires market participants to deposit and maintain an initial margin amount which is determined by the clearinghouse and is generally intended to be set at a level sufficient to protect the clearinghouse from the maximum estimated single-day price movement in that market participants contracts. The clearing exchanges have the sole discretion to determine the value of the instruments. In the event of a margin call, we must generally provide additional collateral on the same business day. In response to events having or expected to have adverse economic consequences or which create market uncertainty, clearing facilities or exchanges upon which our hedging instruments are traded may require us to pledge additional collateral against our hedging instruments. In the event that future adverse economic developments or market uncertainty result in increased margin requirements for our hedging instruments, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity position, business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain adequate financing through repurchase agreements or to renew or replace existing borrowings upon maturity, we will be limited in our ability to implement our investing activities, which will adversely affect our results of operations and may, in turn, negatively affect the market value of your investment in our securities and our ability to make dividends to our shareholders. We depend upon repurchase agreement financing to purchase our target assets and reach our target leverage ratio. We cannot assure you that sufficient repurchase agreement financing will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. Our lenders also may revise their eligibility requirements for the types of assets they are willing to finance or the terms of such financings based on, among other factors, the regulatory environment and their perceived risk. If we fail to obtain adequate funding or to renew or replace existing funding upon maturity, we will be limited in our ability to implement our business strategy, which will adversely affect our results of operations and may, in turn, negatively affect the market value of your investments in our securities and our ability to make dividends to our shareholders. 13 New assets we acquire may not generate yields as at tractive as yields on our current assets, resulting in a decline in our earnings over time. We receive monthly cash flows consisting of principal and interest payments from many of our assets. Principal payments reduce the size of our current portfolio (i.e., reduce the amount of our long-term assets) and generate cash for us. We may also sell assets from time to time as part of our portfolio management and capital reallocation strategies. In order to maintain or grow our portfolio size and our earnings, we must reinvest in new assets a portion of the cash flows we receive from principal repayments and asset sales. New investment opportunities may not generate the same investment returns as our current investment portfolio. If the assets we acquire in the future earn lower returns than the assets we currently own, our reported earnings will likely decline over time as the older assets pay down, are called, or are sold. Our agency MBS investments that are guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are subject to the risk that these GSEs may not be fully able to satisfy their guarantee obligations or that these guarantee obligations may be repudiated, which would adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and our ability to sell or finance these securities. All of the agency MBS in which we invest depend on a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the MBS. The interest and principal payments we receive on agency MBS issued by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac are guaranteed by these GSEs, but are not guaranteed by the U.S. government. To the extent these GSEs are not able to fully satisfy their guarantee obligations or that these guarantee obligations are repudiated or otherwise defaulted upon, the value of our investment portfolio and our ability to sell or finance these securities would be adversely affected. The conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the federal government, may adversely affect our business. The interest and principal payments we receive on agency MBS issued by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac are guaranteed by these GSEs and not guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are currently regulated by the FHFA, HUD, SEC and U.S. Treasury, and are currently operating under the conservatorship of the FHFA, which is a statutory process pursuant to which the FHFA operates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in an effort to stabilize the entities. As part of these actions, the U.S. Treasury has agreed to support the continuing operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with any necessary capital contributions up to a maximum capital commitment to each GSE while in conservatorship. Although the U.S. Treasury has committed to support the positive net worth of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two GSEs could default on their guarantee obligations, which would materially and adversely affect the value of our agency MBS. In addition, the future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced or eliminated and the nature of their guarantees could be eliminated or considerably limited relative to historical measurements. Any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitutes agency MBS, have broad adverse market implications and negatively impact us. The FHFA and both houses of Congress have each discussed and considered separate measures intended to restructure the U.S. housing finance system and the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. On March 27, 2019, President Trump issued a memorandum directing the Secretary of the Treasury to develop a plan for administrative and legislative reforms to achieve the following housing reform goals: (i) ending the conservatorships of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac upon the completion of specific reforms; (ii) facilitating competition in the housing finance market; (iii) establishing regulation of the GSEs that safeguards their safety and soundness and minimizes the risks they pose to the financial stability of the United States; and (iv) providing that the Federal government is properly compensated for any explicit or implicit support it provides the GSEs or the secondary housing finance market. On September 5, 2019, the U.S. Treasury released its plan of recommended legislative and administrative reforms to the housing finance system to achieve the goals outlined in the Presidential memorandum. Since the release of the U.S. Treasurys plan of recommended reforms to the housing finance system, there have been preliminary actions taken to advance the goals in the plan of recapitalizing and ending the conservatorship of the GSEs. First, on September 27, 2019, the FHFA and U.S. Treasury entered into an agreement that permits Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to retain up to $25 billion and $20 billion, respectively, in capital. As part of the agreement, the liquidation preference of the U.S. Treasurys senior preferred stock positions in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will be increased by a commensurate amount until the liquidation preferences increase by $22 billion for Fannie Mae and $17 billion for Freddie Mac. Second, on October 4, 2019, the FHFA released a solicitation for advisory services to assist in the formulation and potential implementation of a roadmap to responsibly end the conservatorships of the GSE. The passage of any additional new legislation affecting Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may create market uncertainty and reduce the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government through a new or existing successor entity to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. If the charters of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were revoked, it is unclear what effect, if any, this would have on the value of the existing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac agency MBS. We anticipate debate and discussion on residential housing and mortgage reform to continue throughout 2020; however, we cannot be certain if any housing and/or mortgage-related legislation will emerge from committee, be approved by Congress, or be affected by any executive actions and, if so, what the effect will be on our business. 14 Market conditions may disrupt the historical relationship between interest rate changes and prepayment trends, which would make it more difficult for us to analyze our investment portfolio. Our success depends on our ability to analyze the relationship of changing interest rates on prepayments of the mortgage loans that underlie our MBS. Changes in interest rates and prepayments affect the market price of MBS that we intend to purchase and any MBS that we hold at a given time. As part of our overall portfolio risk management, we analyze interest rate changes and prepayment trends separately and collectively to assess their effects on our investment portfolio. In conducting our analysis, we depend on certain assumptions based upon historical trends with respect to the relationship between interest rates and prepayments under normal market conditions. Dislocations in the residential mortgage market and other developments may change the way that prepayment trends have historically responded to interest rate changes and, consequently, may negatively impact our ability to (i) assess the impact of future changes in interest rates and prepayments on the market value of our investment portfolio, (ii) implement our hedging strategies, and (iii) implement techniques to reduce our prepayment rate volatility would be significantly affected. If we are unable to accurately forecast interest and prepayment rates, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Changes in prepayment rates may adversely affect our profitability and are difficult to predict. Our investment portfolio includes securities backed by pools of residential mortgage loans. For securities backed by pools of residential mortgage loans, we receive income, generally, from the payments that are made by the borrowers of the underlying mortgage loans. When borrowers prepay their mortgage loans at rates that are faster or slower than expected, it results in prepayments that are faster or slower than expected on our investments. These faster or slower than expected payments may adversely affect our profitability. We may purchase securities that have a higher interest rate than the then-prevailing market interest rate. In exchange for this higher interest rate, we may pay a premium to par value to acquire such securities. In accordance with GAAP, we amortize this premium as a reduction to interest income under the contractual interest method so that a proportional amount of the unamortized premium is amortized as principal prepayments occur. If a security is prepaid in whole or in part at a faster rate than originally expected, we will amortize the purchased premium at a faster pace resulting in a lower effective return on our investment than originally expected. We also may purchase securities that have a lower interest rate than the then-prevailing market interest rate. In exchange for this lower interest rate, we may pay a discount to par value to acquire such securities. In accordance with GAAP, we accrete this discount as an increase to interest income under the contractual interest method so that a proportional amount of the unamortized discount is accreted as principal prepayments occur. If a security is prepaid in whole or in part at a slower rate than originally expected, we will accrete the purchased discount at a slower pace resulting in a lower effective return on our investment than originally expected. Moreover, if prepayment rates decrease due to a rising interest rate environment, the average life or duration of our fixed-rate assets will generally be extended. This could have a negative impact on our results from operations, as the maturities of our interest rate hedges are fixed and will, therefore, cover a smaller percentage of our funding exposure on our MBS assets to the extent that the average lives of the mortgages underlying such MBS increase due to slower prepayments. Homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans more quickly when interest rates decline. Although prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayments may also occur as the result of an improvement in the borrowers ability to refinance the loan as a result of home price appreciation or wage growth. Prepayments can also occur when borrowers sell the property and use the sale proceeds to prepay the mortgage as part of a physical relocation or when borrowers default on their mortgages and the mortgages are prepaid from the proceeds of a foreclosure sale of the property. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will generally, among other conditions, purchase mortgages that are 120 days or more delinquent from holders of such mortgages when the cost of guarantee payments to such holders, including advances of interest at the loan coupon rate, exceeds the cost of holding the nonperforming loans in their portfolios. Consequently, prepayment rates also may be affected by conditions in the housing and financial markets, which may result in increased delinquencies on mortgage loans, the GSEs cost of capital, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed and adjustable rate loans, which could lead to an acceleration of the payment of the related principal. Furthermore, changes in the GSEs policies regarding the repurchase of delinquent loans can materially impact prepayment rates. In addition, the introduction of new government programs could increase the availability of mortgage credit to a large number of homeowners in the United States, which could impact the prepayment rates for the entire MBS market, and in particular for agency MBS. Any new programs or changes to existing programs could cause substantial uncertainty around the magnitude of changes in prepayment speeds. Faster or slower than expected prepayments may adversely affect our profitability and cash available for distribution to our shareholders and are difficult to predict. The Federal Reserves balance sheet normalization program of reducing its holdings of longer-term U.S. Treasury securities and agency MBS may adversely affect the price and return associated with agency MBS. 15 In response to the global financial crisis that began in 2007, the Federal Reserve undertook extraordinary accommodative monetary policies, including large-scale open-market purchases of longer-term U.S. Treasury sec urities and agency MBS leading to a significant growth in the size of the Federal Reserves balance sheet. In October 2017 , the Federal Reserve initiated a balance sheet normalization policy to gradually reduce its holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and agency MBS by gradually reducing its reinvestment of principal payments of U.S. Treasury securities and agency MBS. However, i n March 2019 the Federal Reserve modified its balance sheet normalization policy. More specifically, the Federal Reserve state d that it would slow the pace of the reduction of its holdings of U.S. Treasury through the end of September 2019 with the goal of generally maintaining its aggregate holdings thereafter; however, the Federal Reserve intends to continue to allow its holdi ngs of agency MBS to decline with any principal payments from agency MBS reinvested in U.S. Treasury securities beginning in October 2019. We cannot predict the impact of the Federal Reserves balance sheet normalization policy could have on the prices and liquidity of agency MBS or on mortgage spreads relative to interest rate hedges tied to benchmark interest rates. However, during periods in which the Federal Reserve reduces or ceases reinvestment of principal payments or undertakes outright sales of its securities portfolio, the price of agency MBS and U.S. Treasury securities will likely decline, mortgage spreads will likely widen, refinancing volumes will likely be lower and market volatility will likely be higher than would have been absent such actions and our net book value could be adversely affected. It may be uneconomical to roll our TBA dollar roll transactions or we may be unable to meet margin calls on our TBA commitments, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may utilize TBA dollar roll transactions as a means of investing in and financing agency MBS. TBA contracts enable us to purchase or sell, for future delivery, agency MBS with certain principal and interest terms and certain types of collateral, but the particular agency MBS to be delivered are not identified until shortly before the TBA settlement date. Prior to settlement of the TBA contract, we may choose to move the settlement of the securities out to a later date by entering into an offsetting position (referred to as a pair off), net settling the paired off positions for cash, and simultaneously purchasing a similar TBA contract for a later settlement date, collectively referred to as a dollar roll. The agency MBS purchased for a forward settlement date under the TBA contract are typically priced at a discount to agency MBS for settlement in the current month. This difference (or discount) is referred to as the price drop. As discussed under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Core Operating Income, we believe this price drop is the economic equivalent of net interest carry income on the underlying agency MBS over the roll period (interest income less implied financing cost), which is commonly referred to as dollar roll income. Consequently, dollar roll transactions and such forward purchases of agency MBS represent a form of off-balance sheet financing. Under certain market conditions, TBA dollar roll transactions may result in negative carry income whereby the agency MBS purchased for a forward settlement date under the TBA contract are priced at a premium to agency MBS for settlement in the current month. Under such conditions, it may be uneconomical to roll our TBA positions prior to the settlement date and we could have to take physical delivery of the underlying securities and settle our obligations for cash. We may not have sufficient funds or alternative financing sources available to settle such obligations. In addition, our TBA contracts are subject to master securities forward transaction agreements published by SIFMA as well as supplemental terms and conditions with each counterparty. Under the terms of these agreements, we may be required to pledge collateral to our counterparty in the event the fair value of our agency MBS commitments decline and such counterparty demands collateral through a margin call. Negative carry income on TBA dollar roll transactions or failure to procure adequate financing to settle our obligations or meet margin calls under our TBA contracts could result in defaults or force us to sell assets under adverse market conditions or through foreclosure and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our use of repurchase agreements may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or any of our lenders file for bankruptcy, which may make it difficult for us to recover our collateral. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay if we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that any of our lenders file for bankruptcy. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either our lenders or us. In addition, if the lender is a broker or dealer subject to the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 or an insured depository institution subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, our ability to exercise our rights to recover our investment under a repurchase agreement or to be compensated for any damages resulting from the lenders insolvency may be further limited by those statutes. 16 If the lending i nstitution under one or more of our repurchase agreements defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the agreement term, we will lose money on our repurchase transactions. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we initially sell securities to the transaction counterparty under a master repurchase agreement in exchange for cash from the counterparty. The counterparty is obligated to resell the same securities back to us at the end of the term of the repurchase agreement, which typically is 30 to 60 days, but may have terms from one day to up to three years or more. The cash we receive when we initially sell the collateral is less than the value of the collateral, which is referred to as the haircut. If the counterparty in a repurchase transaction defaults on its obligation to resell the securities back to us, we will incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming no change in the value of the securities). Losses incurred on our repurchase transactions would adversely affect our earnings and our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If we default on our obligations under our repurchase agreements, we may be unable to establish a suitable replacement facility on acceptable terms or at all. If we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase agreement, the counterparty may terminate the agreement and cease entering into any other repurchase agreements with us. In that case, we would likely need to establish a replacement repurchase facility with another financial institution in order to continue to leverage the assets in our investment portfolio and to carry out our investment strategy. We may be unable to establish a suitable replacement repurchase facility on acceptable terms or at all. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could have important consequences to you. As of December 31, 2019, we had total unsecured indebtedness (excluding payables, derivative liabilities and repurchase agreement financing) of $75.3 million, which includes $25.0 million in principal amount of our 6.625% senior notes due 2023, $35.3 million in principal amount of our 6.75% senior notes due 2025, and $15.0 million in principal amount of subordinated unsecured long-term debentures due between 2033 and 2035. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you, because: it could affect our ability to satisfy our financial obligations; a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; it may impair our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing in the future; it may limit our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity; it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; it may make it more difficult to meet REIT distribution requirements; and it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. If we fail to make payment on the senior notes, we could default on the senior notes. The expected future discontinuation of LIBOR and selection of an alternative reference rate may adversely affect the value of the financial obligations to be held or issued by us that are linked to LIBOR. On July 27, 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021, which could either cause LIBOR to stop publication immediately or cause LIBORs regulator to determine that its quality had degraded to the degree that it is no longer representative of its underlying market. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large US financial institutions, is considering replacing U.S. dollar LIBOR with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements, backed by Treasury securities. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York began publishing SOFR rates in April 2018. The market transition away from LIBOR and towards SOFR is expected to be gradual and complicated. There are significant differences between LIBOR and SOFR, such as LIBOR being an unsecured lending rate and SOFR a secured lending rate, and SOFR is an overnight rate and LIBOR reflects term rates at different maturities. These and other differences create the potential for basis risk between the two rates. It is possible that not all of our assets and liabilities will transition away from LIBOR at the same time, and it is possible that not all of our assets and liabilities will transition to the same alternative reference rate, in each case increasing the difficulty of hedging. The impact of any basis risk between LIBOR and SOFR may negatively affect our operating results. Any of these alternative methods may result in interest rates that are higher than if LIBOR were available in its current form, which could have a material adverse effect on results. 17 We are party to various financial instruments which include LIBOR as a reference rate. As of December 31, 2019, these financial instruments include interest rate swap agreements, a mortgage l oan investment, and preferred stock and unsecured notes issued by us. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect of any such changes, any establishment of alternative reference rates or any other reforms to LIBOR that may be implemented in the U.K. or elsewhere. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes, alternative reference rates or other reforms may adversely affect the market for or value of any securities on which the interest or dividend is determined by reference to LIBOR, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or on our overall financial condition or results of operations. The process of transition involves operational risks, and it is possible that no transition will occur for many financial instruments. More generally, any of the above changes or any other consequential changes to LIBOR or any other benchmark as a result of international, national or other proposals for reform or other initiatives or investigations, or any further uncertainty in relation to the timing and manner of implementation of such changes, could have a material adverse effect on the value of and return on any securities based on or linked to a benchmark. Limitations on our access to capital could impair our liquidity and our ability to conduct our business. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business. Failures of similar businesses have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity. Liquidity is of particular importance to our business and perceived liquidity issues may affect our counterparties willingness to engage in transactions with us. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption, the payment of significant legal defense and indemnification costs, expenses, damages or settlement amounts, or an operational problem that affects us or third parties. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time or the market is experiencing significant volatility. Our inability to maintain adequate liquidity would materially harm our business and operations. Our due diligence of potential investments may not reveal all of the liabilities associated with those investments and may not reveal aspects of the investments which could lead to lower expected investment returns or investment losses. Before making certain investments, we may undertake due diligence efforts with respect to various aspects of the acquisition, including investigating the strengths and weaknesses of the originator or issuer of the asset and, in the case of purchases of non-agency MBS or mortgage loans, verifying certain aspects of the underlying securities, loans or properties themselves as well as other factors and characteristics that may be material to the performance of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting due diligence, we rely on resources available to us and, in some cases, third party information. There can be no assurance that any due diligence process that we conduct will uncover relevant facts that could be determinative of whether or not an investment will be successful. Our investments in mortgage-related assets where the repayment of principal and interest is not guaranteed by a U.S. government agency or GSE subject us to a potential high risk of loss. Investments in mortgage-related assets where repayment of principal and interest is not guaranteed by a U.S. government agency or GSE subject us to the potential risk of loss of principal and/or interest due to delinquency, foreclosure and related losses of on the underlying mortgage loans. Residential mortgage loans underlying non-agency residential MBS are secured by residential property and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by residential property is dependent upon the income or assets of the borrower. A number of factors may impair a borrower's ability to repay the loan, including: loss of employment; divorce; illness; acts of God; acts of war or terrorism; adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; changes in laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of complying with such laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions such as mold; and the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses. Commercial mortgage loans underlying commercial MBS are secured by commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of residential property. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income producing property can be affected by, among other things: tenant mix; success of tenant businesses; property management decisions; property location and condition; competition from comparable types of properties; changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged; any need to address environmental contamination at the property; the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; changes in national, regional or local economic conditions or specific industry segments; declines in regional or local real estate values; declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates; increases in 18 interest rates; real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation; acts of God, acts of war or terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. We depend on third-party service providers, including mortgage servicers, for a variety of services related to our non-agency MBS and mortgage loan investments. We are, therefore, subject to the risks associated with third-party service providers. We depend on a variety of third-party service providers related to our non-agency MBS and mortgage loan investments. We rely on the mortgage servicers who service the mortgage loans backing our non-agency MBS to, among other things, collect principal and interest payments on the underlying mortgages and perform loss mitigation services. We also rely on administrative agents who service the mortgage loans that we may directly invest in. Mortgage servicers and other service providers to our MBS, such as trustees, bond insurance providers and custodians, may not perform in a manner that promotes our interests. The failure of servicers to effectively service the mortgage loans underlying the non-agency MBS in our investment portfolio could materially and adversely affect us. Most securitizations of mortgage loans require a servicer to manage collections on each of the underlying loans. Both default frequency and default severity of loans may depend upon the quality of the servicer. If servicers are not vigilant in encouraging borrowers to make their monthly payments, the borrowers may be far less likely to make these payments, which could result in a higher frequency of default. If servicers take longer to liquidate non-performing assets, loss severities may tend to be higher than originally anticipated. Additionally, servicers can perform loan modifications, which could potentially impact the value of our securities. The failure of servicers to effectively service the mortgage loans underlying the non-agency MBS in our investment portfolio could negatively impact the value of our investments and our performance. Servicer quality is of prime importance in the default performance of non-agency MBS. If a servicer goes out of business, the transfer of servicing takes time and loans may become delinquent because of confusion or lack of attention. When servicing is transferred, previously advanced principal and interest is often recaptured rapidly by the new servicer, which may have an adverse effect on non-agency MBS credit support. In the case of pools of securitized loans, servicers may be required to advance interest on delinquent loans to the extent the servicer deems those advances recoverable. In the event the servicer does not advance funds, interest may be interrupted, even on more senior securities. Servicers may also advance more than is in fact recoverable once a defaulted loan is disposed, and the loss to the trust may be greater than the outstanding principal balance of that loan (greater than 100% loss severity). Our investments may include subordinated tranches of non-agency MBS, which are subordinate in right of payment to more senior securities. Our investments may include subordinated tranches of non-agency MBS, which are subordinated classes of securities in a structure collateralized by a pool of mortgage loans and, accordingly, are among the first to bear the loss upon a restructuring or liquidation of the underlying collateral and the last to receive payment of interest and principal. Additionally, estimated fair values of these subordinated interests tend to be more sensitive to changes in economic conditions than more senior securities. As a result, such subordinated interests generally are less actively traded and may not provide holders thereof with liquid investments. When we invest in securities that are illiquid, are unrated, have a higher risk of default or are difficult to value, such securities may be considered speculative, and their capacity to pay principal and interest in accordance with the terms of their issue is not certain. Our investment portfolio may be concentrated in terms of credit risk. Our investment portfolio may at times be concentrated in certain property types that are subject to higher risk of foreclosure, or secured by properties concentrated in a limited number of geographic locations. To the extent that our portfolio is concentrated in any one region or type of asset, downturns relating generally to such region or type of asset may result in defaults on a number of our assets within a short time period, which may reduce our net income and the value of our shares and accordingly reduce our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our portfolio may contain other concentrations of risk, and we may fail to identify, detect or hedge against those risks, resulting in large or unexpected losses. Any credit ratings assigned to our investments will be subject to ongoing evaluations and revisions and we cannot assure you that those ratings will not be downgraded. Some of our investments are rated by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. Any credit ratings on our investments are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and we cannot assure you that any such ratings will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future. If rating agencies assign a lower-than-expected rating or reduce or withdraw, or indicate that they may reduce or withdraw, their ratings of our investments in the future, the value of these investments could significantly decline, which would adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and could result in losses upon disposition. 19 Our mortgage loan investments secured by healthcare properties exposes us to additional risk of loss. As of December 31, 2019, we own a mortgage loan investment that is secured by the real property of healthcare facilities and guaranteed by the operator of the facilities. The revenues of the operators are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates and Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. Expenses of these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent. To the extent that any decrease in revenue or increase in operating expenses result in the facilities not generating enough cash to make payments to us, we would have to rely on the creditworthiness of the guarantor and the value of the collateral. To the extent the value of the property is reduced, we may need to reduce the fair value of our mortgage loan investment and we could incur a realized loss upon the disposition of the investment. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. The operators of the facilities securing our mortgage loan investments compete on a local and regional basis with other properties and healthcare providers that provide comparable services. We cannot be certain that the operators of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy levels and rates that will enable them to meet our borrowers obligations to us. The operators and healthcare facilities securing our investments may also face litigation and may experience rising liability and insurance costs. Litigation brought by individual patients and advocacy groups against operators of facilities can result in large damage awards of alleged abuses and may result in material increases in the costs incurred by operators, including increases to their costs of liability and medical malpractice insurance. The operators and healthcare facilities are also subject to varying levels of federal, state, local and industry-regulated licensures, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards. The failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursements, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of licensure or closure of the facility. The operators and healthcare facilities rely on reimbursement from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid programs, for their revenues. Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment insurance companies and Medicare and Medicaid programs could have a material adverse effect on the operators and healthcare facilities securing our mortgage loan investment. Our investments are recorded at fair value based upon assumptions that are inherently subjective, and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. We measure the fair value of our investments quarterly, in accordance with guidance set forth in FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures. Ultimate realization of the value of an asset depends to a great extent on economic and other conditions that are beyond our control. Further, fair value is only an estimate based on good faith judgment of the price at which an investment can be sold because market prices of investments can only be determined by negotiation between a willing buyer and seller. If we were to liquidate a particular asset, the realized value may be more than or less than the amount at which such asset is valued. Accordingly, the value of our securities could be adversely affected by our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments, whether in the applicable period or in the future. Additionally, such valuations may fluctuate over short periods of time. Our determination of the fair value of our agency MBS is based on price estimates provided by third-party pricing services. In general, pricing services heavily disclaim their valuations. Depending on the complexity and liquidity of a security, valuations of the same security can vary substantially from one pricing service to another. Non-agency MBS trade infrequently and may be considered illiquid. Our determination of the fair value of our non-agency MBS is based on significant unobservable inputs based on various assumptions made by management of the Company. These significant unobservable inputs may include assumptions regarding future interest rates, prepayment rates, discount rates, credit loss rates, and the timing of credit losses. These assumptions are inherently subjective and involve a high degree of management judgment, and our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a public market for these securities existed. Therefore, our results of operations for a given period could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair market value of these investments are materially different than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. We may change our investment strategy, hedging strategy, asset allocation and operational policies without shareholder consent, which may result in riskier investments and adversely affect the market value of our securities and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We may change our investment strategy, hedging strategy, asset allocation and operational policies at any time without the consent of our shareholders, which could result in our making investment or hedge decisions that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and hedges described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A change in our investment or hedging strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and real estate market fluctuations. A change in our asset allocation could result in us making investments in securities, assets or business different from those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Board of Directors oversees our operational policies, including those with respect to our acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, 20 capitalization and distributions or approves transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Operational policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our securities and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Investing in assets other than residential MBS or pursuing business activities other than investing in residential MBS may not be successful and could adversely affect our results of operations and the market value of our securities . We may enter into new lines of business, acquire other companies or engage in other strategic initiatives, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our businesses. We may pursue growth through acquisitions of other companies or other strategic initiatives that may require approval by our Board of Directors, stockholders, or both. To the extent we pursue strategic investments or acquisitions, undertake other strategic initiatives or consider new lines of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with: the availability of suitable opportunities; the level of competition from other companies that may have greater financial resources; our ability to value potential acquisition opportunities accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those opportunities; the required investment of capital and other resources; the lack of availability of financing and, if available, the terms of any financings; the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk; the diversion of managements attention from our core businesses; assumption of liabilities in any acquired business; the disruption of our ongoing businesses; the increasing demands on or issues related to combining or integrating operational and management systems and controls; compliance with additional regulatory requirements; and costs associated with integrating and overseeing the operations of the new businesses. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. In addition, if a new business generates insufficient revenues or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our strategic initiatives may include joint ventures, in which case we will be subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. Our Board of Directors does not approve each of our investment, financing and hedging decisions. Our Board of Directors oversees our operational policies and periodically reviews our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio. However, our Board of Directors does not review all of our proposed investments. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by our management. Furthermore, transactions entered into or structured for us by our management may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our Board of Directors. We operate in a highly-competitive market for investment opportunities, which could make it difficult for us to purchase or originate investments at attractive yields and thus have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We gain access to investment opportunities only to the extent that they become known to us. Gaining access to investment opportunities is highly competitive. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than us and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources, more long-standing relationships, broader product offerings and other advantages. Some of our competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. As a result of this competition, we may not be able to purchase or originate our target investments at attractive yields, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Risks Related to our Business and Structure Our Rights Plan could inhibit a change in our control. We have a Rights Plan designed to protect against a possible limitation on our ability to use our NOLs, NCLs and built-in losses by dissuading investors from aggregating ownership of our Class A common stock and triggering an ownership change for purposes of Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the terms of the Rights Plan, in general, if a person or group acquires or commences a tender or exchange offer for beneficial ownership of 4.9% or more of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock upon a determination by our Board of Directors (an Acquiring Person), all of our other Class A common shareholders will have the right to purchase securities from us at a discount to such securities fair market value, thus causing substantial dilution to the Acquiring Person. The Rights Plan may have the effect of inhibiting or impeding a change in control not approved by our Board of Directors and, notwithstanding its purpose, could adversely affect our shareholders ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our common stock in connection with such a transaction. In addition, because our Board of Directors can prevent the Rights Plan from operating, in the event our Board of Directors approves of an Acquiring Person, the Rights Plan gives our Board of Directors significant discretion over whether a potential acquirers efforts to acquire a large interest in us will be successful. Consequently, the Rights Plan could impede transactions that would otherwise benefit our shareholders. The trading price of our securities may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control. Any negative changes in the publics perception of the prospects for our business or the types of assets in which we invest could depress our stock price regardless of our results. The following factors, among others, could contribute to the volatility of the price of our Class A common stock, Series B Preferred Stock, Series C Preferred Stock or Senior Notes: actual or unanticipated variations in our quarterly results; changes in our financial estimates by securities analysts; conditions or trends affecting companies that make investments similar to ours; changes in interest rate environments and the mortgage market that cause our borrowing costs to increase, our reported yields on our MBS portfolio to decrease or that cause the value of our MBS portfolio to decrease; changes in the market valuations of the securities in our MBS portfolio and other principal investments; negative changes in the publics perception of the prospects of investment or financial services companies; changes in the regulatory environment in which our business operates or changes in federal fiscal or monetary policies; dilution resulting from new equity issuances; general economic conditions such as a recession, or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations; and additions or departures of our key personnel. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the market value of the investments we acquire, the performance of our hedging instruments, prepayment rates and changes in interest rates. As a result, we may fail to meet profitability or dividend expectations, which could negatively affect the market price of our securities and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. 22 We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to pay dividends in the future. We intend to pay regular dividends to our common stockholders in an amount that all or substantially all our taxable income is distributed within the limits prescribed by the Internal Revenue Code. However, we have not established a minimum dividend payment level and the amount of our dividend may fluctuate. Our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described herein. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings and financial condition, the requirements for REIT qualification and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant from time to time. We may not be able to make distributions in the future or our Board of Directors may change our dividend policy. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. To the extent that we decide to pay dividends in excess of our current and accumulated tax earnings and profits, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for Federal income tax purposes. A return of capital reduces the cost basis of a stockholder's investment in our common stock to the extent of such basis and is treated as capital gain thereafter. Indemnification obligations to certain of our current and former directors and officers may increase the costs to us of legal proceedings involving our company. Our charter contains a provision that limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the criminal law or any federal or state securities law. Our charter also requires us to indemnify our directors and officers in connection with any liability incurred by them in connection with any action or proceeding (including any action by us or in our right) to which they are or may be made a party by reason of their service in those or other capacities if the conduct in question was in our best interests and the person was acting on our behalf or performing services for us, unless the person engaged in willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the criminal law. The Virginia Stock Corporation Act requires a Virginia corporation (unless its charter provides otherwise, which our charter does not) to indemnify a director or officer who has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any proceeding to which he is made a party by reason of his service in that capacity. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with certain of our current and former directors and officers under which we are generally required to indemnify them against liability incurred by them in connection with any action or proceeding to which they are or may be made a party by reason of their service in those or other capacities, if the conduct in question was in our best interests and the person was conducting themselves in good faith (subject to certain exceptions, including liabilities arising from willful misconduct, a knowing violation of the criminal law or receipt of an improper benefit). In the future, we may be the subject of indemnification assertions under our charter, Virginia law or these indemnification agreements by our current and former directors and officers who are or may become party to any action or proceeding. We maintain directors and officers insurance policies that may limit our exposure and enable us to recover a portion of any amounts paid with respect to such obligations. However, if our coverage under these policies is reduced, denied, eliminated or otherwise not available to us, our potential financial exposure would be increased. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification obligations could be significant. Amounts paid pursuant to our indemnification obligations could adversely affect our financial results and the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Loss of our exclusion from regulation as an investment company under the 1940 Act would adversely affect us and may reduce the market price of our securities. We rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act for our exclusion from the registration requirements of the 1940 Act. This provision requires that 55% of our assets, on an unconsolidated basis, consist of qualifying assets, such as agency whole pool certificates, and 80% of our assets, on an unconsolidated basis, consist of qualifying assets or real estate-related assets. We will need to ensure not only that we qualify for an exclusion or exemption from regulation under the 1940 Act, but also that each of our subsidiaries qualifies for such an exclusion or exemption. We intend to maintain our exclusion by monitoring the value of our interests in our subsidiaries. We may not be successful in this regard. If we fail to maintain our exclusion and another exclusion or exemption is not available, we may be required to register as an investment company, or we may be required to acquire or dispose of assets in order to meet our exemption. Any such asset acquisitions or dispositions may include assets that we would not acquire or dispose of in the ordinary course of business, may be at unfavorable prices and result in a decline in the price of our securities. If we are required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the 1940 Act), and portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. Accordingly, registration under the 1940 Act could limit our ability to follow our current investment and financing strategies and result in a decline in the price of our securities. 23 Failure to obtain and maintain an exemption from being regulated as a commodity pool operator could subject us to additional regulation and compliance requirements and may result in fines and other penalties which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act established a comprehensive new regulatory framework for derivative contracts commonly referred to as swaps. As a result, any investment fund that trades in swaps or other derivatives may be considered a commodity pool, which would cause its operators (in some cases the funds directors) to be regulated as commodity pool operators, or CPOs. Under rules adopted by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) for which the compliance date generally was December 31, 2012 as to those funds that become commodity pools solely because of their use of swaps, CPOs must by then have filed an application for registration with the National Futures Association (NFA) and have commenced and sustained good faith efforts to comply with the Commodity Exchange Act and CFTCs regulations with respect to capital raising, disclosure, reporting, recordkeeping and other business conduct applicable for their activities as CPOs as if the CPOs were in fact registered in such capacity (which also requires compliance with applicable NFA rules). However, the CFTCs Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight issued a no-action letter saying, although it believes that mortgage REITs are properly considered commodity pools, it would not recommend that the CFTC take enforcement action against the operator of a mortgage REIT who does not register as a CPO if, among other things, the mortgage REIT limits the initial margin and premiums required to establish its swaps, futures and other commodity interest positions to not more than five percent (5%) of its total assets, the mortgage REIT limits the net income derived annually from those commodity interest positions which are not qualifying hedging transactions to less than five percent (5%) of its gross income, and interests in the mortgage REIT are not marketed to the public as or in a commodity pool or otherwise as or in a vehicle for trading in the commodity futures, commodity options or swaps markets. We use hedging instruments in conjunction with our investment portfolio and related borrowings to reduce or mitigate risks associated with changes in interest rates, yield curve shapes and market volatility. These hedging instruments may include interest rate swaps, interest rate swap futures, Eurodollar futures, U.S. Treasury note futures and options on futures. We do not currently engage in any speculative derivatives activities or other non-hedging transactions using swaps, futures or options on futures. We do not use these instruments for the purpose of trading in commodity interests, and we do not consider our company or its operations to be a commodity pool as to which CPO registration or compliance is required. We have claimed the relief afforded by the above-described no-action letter. Consequently, we will be restricted to operating within the parameters discussed in the no-action letter and will not enter into hedging transactions covered by the no-action letter if they would cause us to exceed the limits set forth in the no-action letter. However, there can be no assurance that the CFTC will agree that we are entitled to the no-action letter relief claimed. The CFTC has substantial enforcement power with respect to violations of the laws over which it has jurisdiction, including their anti-fraud and anti-manipulation provisions. For example, the CFTC may suspend or revoke the registration of or the no-action relief afforded to a person who fails to comply with commodities laws and regulations, prohibit such a person from trading or doing business with registered entities, impose civil money penalties, require restitution and seek fines or imprisonment for criminal violations. In the event that the CFTC staff does not provide the no action letter relief we requested or if the CFTC otherwise determines that CPO registration and compliance is required of us, we may be obligated to furnish additional disclosures and reports, among other things. Further, a private right of action exists against those who violate the laws over which the CFTC has jurisdiction or who willfully aid, abet, counsel, induce or procure a violation of those laws. In the event that we fail to comply with statutory requirements relating to derivatives or with the CFTCs rules thereunder, including the mortgage REIT no-action letter described above, we may be subject to significant fines, penalties and other civil or governmental actions or proceedings, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition for personnel, which could adversely affect our business and in turn negatively affect the market price of our securities and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We are dependent on the highly-skilled, and often highly-specialized, individuals we employ. Retention of specialists to manage our portfolio is particularly important to our prospects. Competition for the recruiting and retention of employees may increase elements of our compensation costs. We may not be able to recruit and hire new employees with our desired qualifications in a timely manner. Our incentives may be insufficient to recruit and retain our employees. Increased compensation costs could adversely affect the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could materially and adversely affect our future operating results. We are dependent upon a small number of key senior professionals and the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our financial results which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our securities and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our senior officers and other key professionals. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to have access to members of our senior management team or other key professionals. The loss of any members of our senior management and other key professionals could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 24 We are highly dependent upon communications and information systems operated by third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the marke t price of our securities and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Our business is highly dependent upon communications and information systems that allow us to monitor, value, buy, sell, finance and hedge our investments. Many of these systems are primarily operated by third parties and, as a result, we have limited ability to ensure their continued operation. Furthermore, in the event of systems failure or interruption, we will have limited ability to affect the timing and success of systems restoration. Any failure or interruption of our systems or third-party trading or information systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our securities and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We face risks relating to cybersecurity attacks that could cause loss of confidential information and other business disruptions. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business, and our business is at risk from, and may be impacted by, cybersecurity attacks. These could include attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and computer systems. Attacks can be both individual and/or highly organized attempts by sophisticated hacking organizations. We employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, which include password encryption, frequent password change events, firewall detection systems, anti-virus software and frequent backups; however, there can be no guarantee that such efforts will be successful in preventing a cybersecurity attack. A cybersecurity attack could compromise the confidential information of our employees, tenants and vendors. A successful attack could disrupt and otherwise adversely affect our business operations and financial prospects, damage our reputation and involve significant legal and/or financial liabilities and penalties, including through lawsuits by third-parties. If we issue additional debt securities or other equity securities that rank senior to our common stock, our operations may be restricted and we will be exposed to additional risk and the market price of our securities could be adversely affected. If we decide to issue additional debt securities in the future, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility and inhibit our ability to make required distributions. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable or other securities registered pursuant to our shelf registration statement that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our Class A common stock. Also, additional shares of preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our Class A common stock. We, and indirectly our shareholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Holders of debt securities may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to, the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments, and rights to approve the sale of assets. Such additional restrictive covenants, operating restrictions and preferential dividends could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our securities and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Future sales of shares of our common stock may depress the price of our shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our common stock or the availability of shares for future sales on the market price of our common stock. Any sales of a substantial number of our shares in the public market, or the perception that sales might occur, may cause the market price of our shares to decline. Risks related to taxation Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We intend to elect to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes upon filing our tax return for our taxable year ended December 31, 2019, and we intend to operate so that we will qualify as a REIT. However, the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex, and interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualifying as a REIT requires us to meet various tests regarding the nature of our assets and our income, the ownership of our outstanding stock, and the amount of our distributions on an ongoing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Although we intend to operate so that we will qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will so qualify for any particular year. 25 If we fail to qua lify as a REIT in any calendar year, we would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Further, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any resulting tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to qualify or maintain our qualification as a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT was subject to relief under U.S. federal tax laws, we could not re-elect to qualify as a REIT for four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify. Complying with the REIT requirements can be difficult and may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our shares. We may be required to make distributions to our stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, and may be unable to pursue otherwise attractive investments in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. The REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategies. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. We may use our net operating loss carryforward to reduce our REIT distribution requirement. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax, and may be subject to state and local income tax, on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal income tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and to avoid paying corporate income tax. However, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. From time to time, we may be required to recognize taxable income from our assets in advance of our receipt of cash flow on or proceeds from disposition of such assets. For example, if we purchase MBS at a discount, we generally are required to accrete the discount into taxable income prior to receiving the cash proceeds of the accreted discount at maturity. In addition, we may be required under the terms of indebtedness that we incur to use cash received from interest payments to make principal payments on that indebtedness, with the effect of recognizing income but not having a corresponding amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Additionally, if we incur capital losses in excess of capital gains, such net capital losses are not allowed to reduce our taxable income for purposes of determining our distribution requirement. They may be carried forward for a period of up to five years and applied against future capital gains subject to the limitation of our ability to generate sufficient capital gains, which cannot be assured. If we do not have other funds available, we could be required to (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt, or (iv) distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash or shares of our common stock at the election of each stockholder, to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid the corporate income tax and 4% excess tax in a particular year. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Net capital losses do not reduce our REIT distribution requirements, which may result in distribution requirements in excess of economic earnings. As a REIT, we generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. If we incur capital losses in excess of capital gains, such net capital losses are not allowed to reduce our taxable income for purposes of determining our distribution requirement. They may be carried forward for a period of up to five years and applied against future capital gains subject to the limitation of our ability to generate sufficient capital gains, which cannot be assured. Accordingly, if we generate a net capital loss during the year, the minimum amount of our REIT taxable income that we are required to distribute could exceed our net earnings for the year resulting in a reduction of our shareholders equity capital. The difference in character between our gains and losses on our agency MBS and our interest rate hedging transactions could make this situation more likely to occur. The gains and losses on the sale of our agency MBS generally are characterized as capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, our income and losses from interest rate hedging transactions that are designated as hedges generally are characterized as ordinary for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In general, to the extent that interest rates rise, the value of our interest rate hedging instruments increase in value while the value of our fixed-rate agency MBS decrease in value. 26 As a result, we could realize annual ordinary income from our interest rate hedges that would not be o ffset, for purposes of the REIT distribution requirements, by annual net capital losses on our fixed-rate agency MBS. This could lead to a required distribution to our shareholders in excess of our net earnings, which could result in a reduction in our sh areholders equity. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from certain activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes, and other taxes. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avoid the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold certain assets through, and derive a significant portion of our taxable income and gains in, TRSs. Such subsidiaries are subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT qualification. To qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory. The failure of assets subject to repurchase agreements to be treated as owned by us for U.S. federal income tax purposes could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We have entered and may in the future enter into repurchase agreements that are structured as sale and repurchase agreements pursuant to which we nominally sell certain of our assets to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase these assets at a later date in exchange for a purchase price. Economically, these agreements are financings that are secured by the assets sold pursuant thereto. We believe that we are treated for REIT asset and income test purposes as the owner of the assets that are the subject of any such sale and repurchase agreement notwithstanding that such agreements may transfer record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we did not own the assets during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case we could fail to qualify as a REIT. Complying with the REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code could substantially limit our ability to hedge our assets and operations. Under current law, any income that we generate from transactions intended to hedge our interest rate or currency risks will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests if (i) the instrument hedges risk of interest rate or currency fluctuations on indebtedness incurred or to be incurred to carry or acquire real estate assets, (ii) the instrument hedges risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that would be qualifying income under the REIT 75% or 95% gross income tests, or (iii) the instrument was entered into to offset certain instruments described in clauses (i) or (ii) of this sentence and certain other requirements are satisfied and such instrument is properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations. Income from hedging transactions that do not meet these requirements is likely to constitute nonqualifying income for purposes of both the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous to us or implement those hedges through our TRSs. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRSs would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with interest rate fluctuations or other changes than we would otherwise want to bear. Uncertainty exists with respect to the treatment of our TBAs for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests. We purchase and sell agency MBS through TBAs and recognize income or gains from the disposition of those TBAs, through dollar roll transactions or otherwise, and may continue to do so in the future. While there is no direct authority with respect to the qualification of TBAs as real estate assets or U.S. Government securities for purposes of the REIT 75% asset test or the qualification of income or gains from dispositions of TBAs as gains from the sale of real property or other qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test, we treat our TBAs under which we contract to purchase a TBA agency MBS ( long TBAs) as qualifying assets for purposes of the REIT 75% asset test, and we treat income and gains from our long TBAs as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test, based on an opinion of counsel substantially to the effect that (i) for purposes of the REIT asset tests, our ownership of a long TBA should be treated as ownership of real estate assets, and (ii) for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test, any gain recognized by us in connection with the settlement of our long TBAs should be treated as gain from the sale or disposition of an interest in mortgages on real property. Opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS, and no assurance can be given that the IRS will not successfully challenge the conclusions set forth in such opinions. In addition, it must be 27 emphasized that the opinion of counsel is based on various assumptions relating to our TBAs and is conditioned upon fact-based representations and covenants made by our management regarding our TBAs. No as surance can be given that the IRS would not assert that such assets or income are not qualifying assets or income. If the IRS were to successfully challenge the opinion of counsel, we could be subject to a penalty tax or we could fail to remain qualified a s a REIT if a sufficient portion of our assets consists of TBAs or a sufficient portion of our income consists of income or gains from the disposition of TBAs. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing MBS, that would be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A REITs net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax with no offset for losses. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we dispose of or securitize MBS in a manner that was treated as dealer activity for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales or securitization structures or to implement such transactions through a TRS, even though the transactions might otherwise be beneficial to us. Distributions to tax-exempt investors, or gains on sale of our common stock by tax-exempt investors, may be classified as unrelated business taxable income. Neither ordinary nor capital gain distributions with respect to our common stock nor gain from the sale of our common stock are anticipated to constitute unrelated business taxable income to a tax-exempt investor. However, there are certain exceptions to this rule. For example, if (i) all or a portion of our assets are subject to the rules relating to "taxable mortgage pools" or we hold residual interests in a real estate mortgage investment conduit (or "REMIC"); (ii) we are a "pension held REIT;" (iii) a tax-exempt stockholder has incurred debt to purchase or hold our common stock; or (iv) a tax-exempt stockholder is classified as a social club, voluntary employee benefit association, supplemental unemployment benefit trust or a qualified group legal services plan, then a portion of our distributions to tax-exempt stockholders and, in the case of stockholders described in clauses (iii) and (iv), gains realized on the sale of our common stock by tax-exempt stockholders may be subject to U.S. federal income tax as unrelated business taxable income under the Internal Revenue Code. Certain financing activities may subject us to U.S. federal income tax and could have negative tax consequences for our shareholders. We currently do not intend to enter into any transactions that could result in our, or a portion of our assets, being treated as a taxable mortgage pool for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we enter into such a transaction in the future we will be taxable at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of the income arising from a taxable mortgage pool, referred to as "excess inclusion income," that is allocable to the percentage of our shares held in record name by disqualified organizations (generally tax-exempt entities that are exempt from the tax on unrelated business taxable income, such as state pension plans and charitable remainder trusts and government entities). If we were to realize excess inclusion income, IRS guidance indicates that the excess inclusion income would be allocated among our shareholders in proportion to our dividends paid. Excess inclusion income cannot be offset by losses of our shareholders. If the shareholder is a tax-exempt entity and not a disqualified organization, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. If the shareholder is a foreign person, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the maximum tax rate and withholding will be required on this income without reduction or exemption pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. The stock ownership limits applicable to us that are imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for REITs may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year after our first taxable year. In addition to the limitations on ownership under our Rights Plan, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation contain customary ownership limitation provisions that are designed to protect our ability to qualify as a REIT. Pursuant to our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, no person may own, or deemed to own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, in excess of (i) 9.9% of the number of the outstanding shares of our common stock, (ii) 9.9% in number of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our preferred stock, and (iii) 9.9% of the aggregate value of the outstanding shares of our equity stock. Our Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, with respect to any person, (i) grant an exemption from this 9.9% stock ownership limitation, and (ii) establish different ownership limitations for any such person. 28 Such stock ownership limits might delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders . A REIT cannot invest more than 20% of its total assets in the stock or securities of one or more TRS. A TRS is a corporation, other than a REIT or a qualified REIT subsidiary, in which a REIT owns the stock and with which the REIT jointly elects TRS status. The term also includes a corporate subsidiary in which the TRS owns more than a 35% interest. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may earn income that would not be qualifying income if it was earned directly by the parent REIT. Overall, at the close of any calendar quarter, no more than 20% of the value of a REITs assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. The stock and securities of our TRSs are expected to represent less than 20% of the value of our total assets. Furthermore, we intend to monitor the value of our investments in the stock and securities of our TRSs to ensure compliance with the above-described limitation. We cannot assure you, however, that we will always be able to comply with the limitation so as to maintain REIT status. TRSs are subject to tax at the regular corporate rates, are not required to distribute dividends, and the amount of dividends a TRS can pay to its parent REIT may be limited by REIT gross income tests. A TRS must pay income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns. Our TRSs will pay corporate income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us. In certain circumstances, the ability of our TRSs to deduct interest expense for federal income tax may be limited. Such income, however, is not required to be distributed. Moreover, the annual gross income tests that must be satisfied to ensure REIT qualification may limit the amount of dividends that we can receive from our TRSs and still maintain our REIT status. Generally, not more than 25% of our gross income can be derived from non-real estate related sources, such as dividends from a TRS. If, for any taxable year, the dividends we received from our TRSs, when added to our other items of non-real estate related income, represented more than 25% of our total gross income for the year, we could be denied REIT status, unless we were able to demonstrate, among other things, that our failure of the gross income test was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. The limitations imposed by the REIT gross income tests may impede our ability to distribute assets from our TRSs to us in the form of dividends. Certain asset transfers may, therefore, have to be structured as purchase and sale transactions upon which our TRSs recognize a taxable gain. If interest accrues on indebtedness owed by a TRS to its parent REIT at a rate in excess of a commercially reasonable rate, or if transactions between a REIT and a TRS are entered into on other than arms-length terms, the REIT may be subject to a penalty tax. If interest accrues on an indebtedness owed by a TRS to its parent REIT at a rate in excess of a commercially reasonable rate, the REIT is subject to tax at a rate of 100% on the excess of (i) interest payments made by a TRS to its parent REIT over (ii) the amount of interest that would have been payable had interest accrued on the indebtedness at a commercially reasonable rate. A tax at a rate of 100% is also imposed on any transaction between a TRS and its parent REIT to the extent the transaction gives rise to deductions to the TRS that are in excess of the deductions that would have been allowable had the transaction been entered into on arms-length terms. While we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our TRSs in an effort to ensure that we do not become subject to these taxes, there is no assurance that we will be successful. We may not be able to avoid application of these taxes. There are uncertainties relating to the estimate of our accumulated earnings and profits attributable to our non-REIT years. To qualify as a REIT, we were required to distribute to our shareholders prior to the end of the taxable year ended December 31, 2019 all of our accumulated earnings and profits attributable to non-REIT years. Based on an earnings and profits study we obtained from nationally recognized accountants, we do not believe that we had any accumulated earnings and profits attributable to non-REIT years. While we believe that we satisfied the requirements relating to the distribution of our non-REIT earnings and profits, the determination of the amount of accumulated earnings and profits attributable to non-REIT years is a complex factual and legal determination. There are substantial uncertainties relating to the computation of our accumulated earnings and profits attributable to non-REIT years, including our interpretation of the applicable law differently from the IRS. In addition, the IRS could, in auditing tax years through 2018, successfully assert that our taxable income should be increased, which could increase our non-REIT earnings and profits. Although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our non-REIT earnings and profits, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of them or the economic impact to us of doing so. If it is determined that we had undistributed non-REIT earnings and profits as of the end of any taxable year in which we elect to qualify as a REIT, and we are unable to cure the failure to distribute such earnings and profits, then we would fail to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. 29 New l egislation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our common stock. The U.S. federal tax rules that affect REITs are under review constantly by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to Treasury regulations and interpretations. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments, which could also affect the tax considerations of an investment in our stock. We cannot predict the long-term effect of any recent law changes or any future law changes on REITs and their stockholders. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on the market value of our securities or our ability to make dividends to our shareholders. Our ability to deduct our interest expense could be limited. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act imposes limitations on the deductibility of business interest expense. The business interest expense limitation applies to net interest expense (i.e., interest expense in excess of interest income). Any disallowed interest expense may generally be carried forward to future taxable years, subject to additional requirements and limitations. Because our activities generate substantial amounts of interest income, it is anticipated that the deductibility of our interest expense generally will not be impacted by the new limitation. However, there can be no complete assurance that our activities will not produce net interest expense, the deductibility of which is limited by the new rules. We may not be able to generate future taxable income to fully utilize NOL and NCL carryforwards. As of December 31, 2019, we had an NOL carryforward of $14.6 million that expires in 2028 and an NCL carryforward of $283.3 million that begins to expire in 2020. We can utilize our NOL carryforward to reduce our REIT distribution requirement. In addition, we can utilize our NCL carryforward to reduce our net capital gain income that would be subject to income taxes to the extent it is not distributed to our shareholders. Utilizing our NOL and NCL carryforwards may allow us to reduce our required distributions to shareholders or income tax liability which would allow us to retain future taxable income as capital. However, we may not generate sufficient taxable income of the appropriate tax character to fully utilize these carryforwards prior to their expiration. To the extent that our NOL or NCL carryforwards expire unutilized, we may not fully realize the benefit of these tax attributes which could lead to higher annual distribution requirements or tax liabilities. Our ability to use our tax benefits could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change. Our NOL and NCL carryforwards and certain recognized built-in losses may be limited by Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code if we experience an ownership change. In general, an ownership change occurs if 5% shareholders increase their collective ownership of the aggregate amount of the outstanding shares of our company by more than 50 percentage points looking back over the relevant testing period. If an ownership change occurs, our ability to use our NOLs, NCLs and certain recognized built-in losses to reduce our REIT distribution requirement or taxable income in a future year would be limited to a Section 382 limitation equal to the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the ownership change. The long-term tax-exempt rate for January 2020 is 2.07%. In the event of an ownership change, NOLs and NCLs that exceed the Section 382 limitation in any year will continue to be allowed as carryforwards for the remainder of the carryforward period and such losses can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carryforward period subject to the Section 382 limitation in each year. However, if the carryforward period for any NOL or NCL were to expire before that loss had been fully utilized, the unused portion of that loss would be lost. Our use of new NOLs or NCLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected by the Section 382 limitation (unless there were another ownership change after those new losses arose). We have a Rights Plan designed to protect against the occurrence of an ownership change. The Rights Plan is intended to act as a deterrent to any person or group acquiring 4.9% or more of our outstanding Class A common stock without the approval of our Board of Directors. See Risks Related to our Business and Structure - Our Rights Plan could inhibit a change in our control for information on our Rights Plan. The Rights Plan, however, does not protect against all transactions that could cause an ownership change, such as public issuances and repurchases of shares of Class A common stock. The Rights Plan may not be successful in preventing an ownership change within the meaning of Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code, and we may lose all or most of the anticipated tax benefits associated with our prior losses. Based on our knowledge of our stock ownership, we do not believe that an ownership change has occurred since our losses were generated. Accordingly, we believe that at the current time there is no annual limitation imposed on our use of our NOLs and NCLs to reduce future taxable income. The determination of whether an ownership change has occurred or will occur is complicated and depends on changes in percentage stock ownership among shareholders. Other than the Rights Plan, there are currently no restrictions on the transfer of our stock that would discourage or prevent transactions that could cause an ownership change, although we may 30 adopt such restrictions in the future. As discussed above, the Rights Plan is intended to discourage transactions that could cause an ownership change. In addition, we have not obtained, and currently do not plan to obtain, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, regarding our conclusion as to whether our loss es are subject to any such limitations. Furthermore, we may decide in the future that it is necessary or in our interest to take certain actions that could result in an ownership change. Therefore, no assurance can be provided as to whether an ownership ch ange has occurred or will occur in the future. Preserving the ability to use our NOLs and NCLs may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. Limitations imposed by Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code may discourage us from, among other things, repurchasing our stock or issuing additional stock to raise capital or to acquire businesses or assets. Accordingly, our desire to preserve our NOLs and NCLs may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 31 ITEM 2. P ROPERTIES Our executive and administrative office is located at 6862 Elm Street, Suite 320, McLean, Virginia 22101. We lease our office space. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are from time to time involved in civil lawsuits, legal proceedings and arbitration matters that we consider to be in the ordinary course of our business. There can be no assurance that these matters individually or in the aggregate will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in a future period. We are also subject to the risk of litigation, including litigation that may be without merit. As we intend to actively defend such litigation, significant legal expenses could be incurred. An adverse resolution of any future litigation against us could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Furthermore, we operate in highly-regulated markets that currently are under intense regulatory scrutiny, and we have received, and we expect in the future that we may receive, inquiries and requests for documents and information from various federal, state and foreign regulators. In addition, one or more of our subsidiaries have received requests to repurchase loans from various parties in connection with the former securitization business conducted by a subsidiary. We believe that the continued scrutiny of MBS, structured finance, and derivative market participants increases the risk of additional inquiries and requests from regulatory or enforcement agencies and other parties. We cannot provide any assurance that these inquiries and requests will not result in further investigation of or the initiation of a proceeding against us or that, if any such investigation or proceeding were to arise, it would not materially adversely affect our Company. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 32 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our Class A common stock is listed on the NYSE under the symbol AI. As of January 31, 2020, there were approximately 107 record holders of our Class A common stock. However, most of the shares of our Class A common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of shareholders. Commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 2019, we intend to elect to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. As a REIT, we are required to distribute annually 90% of our REIT taxable income (subject to certain adjustments). So long as we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will generally not be subject to U.S. federal or state corporate income taxes on our taxable income that we distribute to our shareholders on a timely basis. At present, it is our intention to distribute 100% of our taxable income, although we will not be required to do so. We intend to make distributions of our taxable income within the time limits prescribed by the Internal Revenue Code, which may extend into the subsequent taxable year. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected for the reasons described in Item 1A Risk Factors. All distributions to shareholders will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our earnings, financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. In addition, holders of our Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at a specified rate of each of their liquidation preference before holders of our common stock are entitled to receive any dividends. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans Information about securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference from our Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer Our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program pursuant to which we may repurchase up to 2,000,000 shares of Class A common stock (the Repurchase Program). Repurchases under the Repurchase Program may be made from time to time on the open market and in private transactions at managements discretion in accordance with applicable federal securities laws. The timing of repurchases and the exact number of shares of Class A common stock to be repurchased will depend upon market conditions and other factors. The Repurchase Program is funded using our cash on hand and cash generated from operations. The Repurchase Program has no expiration date and may be suspended or terminated at any time without prior notice. There were no shares repurchased by us under the Repurchase Program during the year ended December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2019, there remain available for repurchase 1,951,305 shares of Class A common stock under the Repurchase Program. 33 ITEM 6. SELECTE D FINANCIAL DATA SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Data (audited) Interest income $ 123,478 $ 130,953 $ 121,248 $ 105,336 $ 121,263 Interest expense 97,250 84,825 51,514 29,222 18,889 Net interest income 26,228 46,128 69,734 76,114 102,374 Investment advisory fee income 332 Investment gain (loss), net 2,197 (123,822 ) 5,874 (69,318 ) (118,429 ) General and administrative expenses 15,015 13,370 18,570 20,756 14,787 Income (loss) before income taxes 13,742 (91,064 ) 57,038 (13,960 ) (30,842 ) Income tax provision 733 39,603 27,387 38,561 Net income (loss) 13,742 (91,797 ) 17,435 (41,347 ) (69,403 ) Dividend on preferred stock (2,600 ) (590 ) (251 ) Net income (loss) available (attributable) to common stock 11,142 (92,387 ) 17,184 (41,347 ) (69,403 ) Other comprehensive loss, net of taxes (12,371 ) (23,501 ) Comprehensive income (loss) $ 13,742 $ (91,797 ) $ 17,435 $ (53,718 ) $ (92,904 ) Basic earnings (loss) per common share $ 0.31 $ (3.18 ) $ 0.67 $ (1.79 ) $ (3.02 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per common share $ 0.31 $ (3.18 ) $ 0.66 $ (1.79 ) $ (3.02 ) December 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data (audited) Agency MBS, at fair value $ 3,768,496 $ 3,982,106 $ 4,054,424 $ 3,911,375 $ 3,865,316 Non-agency MBS, at fair value 33,501 24 76 1,266 130,553 Mortgage loans, at fair value 45,000 Deferred tax assets, net 800 48,829 72,927 Total assets 4,000,114 4,099,450 4,160,529 4,116,951 4,178,336 Short-term secured debt 3,581,237 3,721,629 3,667,181 3,649,102 3,621,680 Long-term unsecured debt 74,328 74,104 73,880 73,656 73,433 Total stockholders equity 327,248 274,444 386,317 358,813 459,428 Other Financial Data (unaudited) Book value per common share (1) $ 7.86 $ 8.71 $ 13.43 $ 15.17 $ 19.98 Tangible book value per common share (2) $ 7.86 $ 8.71 $ 13.40 $ 13.11 $ 16.81 Market price per share of Class A common stock (3) $ 5.57 $ 7.24 $ 11.78 $ 14.82 $ 13.23 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 1.05 $ 1.675 $ 2.275 $ 2.50 $ 3.00 ( 1 ) Book value per common share is calculated as total shareholders equity less the preferred stock liquidation preference divided by common shares outstanding. Common shares outstanding includes shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock outstanding plus vested restricted stock units convertible into shares of Class A common stock less unvested restricted shares of Class A common stock. ( 2 ) Tangible book value represents total shareholders equity less the preferred stock liquidation preference and net deferred tax assets. ( 3 ) Represents the last reported sale price of the Companys Class A common stock on the NYSE as of the year ended on the indicated date. 34 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview We are an investment firm that focuses on acquiring and holding a levered portfolio of mortgage investments. Our mortgage investments generally consist of agency MBS and mortgage credit investments. Our agency MBS consist of residential mortgage pass-through certificates for which the principal and interest payments are guaranteed by either a GSE, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, or by a U.S. government agency, such as Ginnie Mae. Our mortgage credit investments may include investments in mortgage loans secured by either residential or commercial real property or MBS collateralized by such mortgage loans, which we refer to as non-agency MBS. The principal and interest of our mortgage credit investments are not guaranteed by a GSE or U.S. government agency. We believe we leverage prudently our investment portfolio, as we seek to increase potential returns to our shareholders. We fund our investments primarily through short-term financing arrangements, principally through repurchase agreements. We enter into various hedging transactions to mitigate the interest rate sensitivity of our cost of borrowing and the value of our fixed-rate mortgage investment portfolio. We intend to elect to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code upon filing our tax return for our taxable year ended December 31, 2019. As a REIT we are required to distribute annually 90% of our REIT taxable income (subject to certain adjustments). So long as we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will generally not be subject to U.S. federal or state corporate income taxes on our taxable income that we distribute to our shareholders on a timely basis. At present, it is our intention to distribute 100% of our taxable income, although we will not be required to do so. We intend to make distributions of our taxable income within the time limits prescribed by the Internal Revenue Code, which may extend into the subsequent taxable year. For our tax years ended December 31, 2018 and earlier, we were taxed as a C corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. We are a Virginia corporation. We are an internally managed company and we do not have an external investment advisor. Factors that Affect our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our business is materially affected by a variety of industry and economic factors, including: conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally; changes in interest rates and prepayment rates; conditions in the real estate and mortgage markets; actions taken by the U.S. government, U.S. Federal Reserve, the U.S. Treasury and foreign central banks; changes in laws and regulations and industry practices; and other market developments. Current Market Conditions and Trends The 10-year U.S. Treasury rate was 1.92% as of December 31, 2019, a 77 basis point decrease from the prior year end. The U.S. interest rate curve, measured as the spread between the 2-year and 10-year U.S. Treasury rate, continued to flatten during most of the 2019 year, inverting for a period of time and reaching a low of negative five basis points in August 2019, before steepening to 35 basis points as of December 31, 2019. The spread in rates between 10-year U.S. Treasuries and interest rate swaps narrowed four basis points during the year with the 10-year swap rate ending at 1.90%. Interest rate and market volatility were at heightened levels during 2019. The decline in mortgage rates, elevated prepayment expectations, flattening of the interest rate curve, reduced Federal Reserve support for agency MBS and other factors led to widening of the spread between the market yield on agency MBS and benchmark interest rates during 2019, resulting in the pricing of agency MBS underperforming interest rate hedges. Following a two-year period in which the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) raised its target federal funds rate by 200 basis points, the FOMC lowered its target federal funds rate 25 basis points three times during 2019 to a current range of 1.50% to 1.75%. After its meeting on December 11, 2019, the FOMC maintained its target range for the federal funds rate at 1.50% to 1.75%, commenting that, in its judgment, the current stance of monetary policy is appropriate to support sustained expansion of economic activity, strong labor market conditions, and inflation near its symmetric 2% objective. Based on federal fund futures prices, market participants currently expect that the FOMC will lower the target federal funds rate by 25 basis points up to two times over the next twelve months. 35 Earlier in 2019 , the FOMC stated that it would modify its previously announced balance sheet normalization policy of gradually decreasing its reinvestment of U.S. Treasury securities and agency MBS. After its mee ting on December 11, 2019, the FOMC reaffirmed that it will reinvest all principal payments received on its U.S. Treasury securities and agency MBS holdings; however, principal payments received from its agency MBS will be reinvested in U.S. Treasury securities at a level to maintain its overall holdings in U .S. Treasury securities with any excess principal payments received reinvested in agency MBS. Starting the week of September 16, 2019, the overnight rate for repurchase agreement (repo) financing of U.S. Treasury securities spiked meaningfully intraday from a rate in the low two percent range to a high in the nine percent range primarily due to a scarcity of bank reserves compared with the amount of U.S. Treasury bonds in the market. Market participants have attributed this imbalance in the amount of available bank reserves compared to U.S. Treasury bond supply to a multiple of factors, including the Federal Reserves reversal of its quantitative easing policy leading to a reduction in the Federal Reserves balance sheet, increased federal government borrowing and U.S. Treasury bond issuances to fund federal budget deficits, and large cash payments reducing the amount of available reserves such as corporate quarterly income tax payments and the monthly settlement of U.S. Treasury security auctions. In response, the Federal Reserve immediately increased bank reserves by offering repo financing for U.S. Treasury and mortgage securities in order to keep the federal funds rate in its target range and stabilize the overnight repo rate. On December 11, 2019, the FOMC announced that it will continue to conduct overnight and term repo operations through at least January 2020, and that it will also purchase shorter-term U.S. Treasury bills at least into the second quarter of 2020 to maintain over time ample reserve balances at or above the level that prevailed in early September 2019. Prepayment speeds in the fixed-rate residential mortgage market during 2019 increased from the prior year driven primarily by an increase in refinancing volumes due to a decrease in mortgage rates. Housing prices continued to improve as evidenced by the Standard & Poors CoreLogic Case-Shiller U.S. National Home Price NSA index reporting a 3.3% annual gain in October 2019 and the overall index reaching a historical high. The favorable economy, moderate mortgage rates and low supply of homes for sale have driven continued gains in housing, although the increase in housing prices is beginning to moderate. However, reduced affordability is beginning to reduce sales of both new and existing single-family homes. The following table presents certain key market data as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 June 30, 2019 September 30, 2019 December 31, 2019 Change - 2018 to 2019 30-Year FNMA Fixed Rate MBS (1) 2.5% $ 94.30 $ 97.55 $ 99.27 $ 99.58 $ 98.92 $ 4.62 3.0% 97.36 99.58 100.80 101.55 101.39 4.03 3.5% 99.83 101.39 102.20 102.64 102.86 3.03 4.0% 101.83 102.86 103.33 103.80 104.02 2.19 4.5% 103.45 104.17 104.48 105.33 105.30 1.85 FNMA Current Coupon vs. 10-year Swap Rate 79 bps 70 bps 78 bps 105 bps 82 bps 3 bps U.S. Treasury Rates (UST) 2-year UST 2.49 % 2.26 % 1.75 % 1.62 % 1.57 % -92 bps 3-year UST 2.46 % 2.21 % 1.71 % 1.56 % 1.61 % -85 bps 5-year UST 2.51 % 2.23 % 1.77 % 1.54 % 1.69 % -82 bps 7-year UST 2.59 % 2.31 % 1.88 % 1.61 % 1.83 % -76 bps 10-year UST 2.69 % 2.41 % 2.01 % 1.66 % 1.92 % -77 bps 30-year UST 3.02 % 2.82 % 2.53 % 2.11 % 2.39 % -63 bps 2-year to 10-year UST Spread 20 bps 15 bps 26 bps 4 bps 35 bps 15 bps Interest Rate Swap Rates 2-year Swap 2.66 % 2.38 % 1.81 % 1.63 % 1.70 % -96 bps 3-year Swap 2.59 % 2.31 % 1.74 % 1.55 % 1.69 % -90 bps 5-year Swap 2.57 % 2.28 % 1.77 % 1.50 % 1.73 % -84 bps 7-year Swap 2.62 % 2.32 % 1.84 % 1.51 % 1.80 % -82 bps 10-year Swap 2.71 % 2.41 % 1.96 % 1.56 % 1.90 % -81 bps 30-year Swap 2.84 % 2.58 % 2.21 % 1.71 % 2.09 % -75 bps 2-year Swap to 2-year UST Spread 17 bps 12 bps 6 bps 1 bps 13 bps -4 bps 10-year Swap to 10-year UST Spread 2 bps 0 bps -5 bps -10 bps -2 bps -4 bps London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR) 1-month LIBOR 2.50 % 2.49 % 2.40 % 2.02 % 1.76 % -74 bps 3-month LIBOR 2.81 % 2.60 % 2.32 % 2.09 % 1.91 % -90 bps 36 (1) Generic 30-year FNMA TBA price information, sourced from Bloomberg, provided for illustrative purposes only and is not meant to be reflective of the fair value of securities held by the Company. Recent Regulatory Activity Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac commenced their Single Security Initiative on June 3, 2019. The Single Security Initiative is a joint initiative of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, under the direction of the Federal Housing Finance Committee, to develop a common MBS (referred to as a Uniform MBS or UMBS) to facilitate the combination of the separate TBA markets of each of the respective GSEs into a single, larger and more liquid market. Existing Freddie Mac pass-through MBS issued prior to June 3, 2019 have a 45-day delay remittance cycle, in which principal and interest payments are remitted to holders 45 days after such payments are due on the underlying mortgage loans, while Fannie Mae MBS have a 55-day delay remittance cycle. As a means to conform existing Freddie Mac MBS to Fannie Mae MBS, Freddie Mac began offering holders of existing Freddie Mac MBS the option to exchange their 45-day delay MBS for a 55-day delay mirror MBS which is ultimately collateralized by the same pool of loans as the original 45-day delay MBS for which it was exchanged. For each 45-day MBS that a holder elects to exchange, at the time of the exchange, Freddie Mac will provide an upfront cash payment to the holder as compensation for the prospective 10-day monthly payment delay. We may elect in the future to exchange some, or potentially all, of our existing Freddie Mac 45-day delay MBS for mirror 55-day delay MBS, depending upon our evaluation of the economics of the compensation payment, among other considerations. Any exchanges of Freddie Mac MBS that we may ultimately elect to perform are not expected to materially impact our financial performance or operations. In January 2014, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) final rule became effective for a qualified mortgage as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, commonly referred to as the QM rule. A qualified mortgage is a mortgage that meets certain requirements for lender protection and secondary trading. In general, a qualified mortgage (i) contains less risky loan features, such as interest-only periods, negative amortization or balloon payments, (ii) has limits on origination points and fees, (iii) has certain legal protection for lenders, and (iv) has debt-to-income ratio limits. However, the QM rule contained an exemption from the debt-to-income ratio limits for mortgages eligible for purchase by either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, commonly referred to as the QM patch, which is set to expire on January 10, 2021. On July 25, 2019, the CFPB announced that it plans to allow the QM patch to expire on its scheduled expiration date. However, on January 17, 2020, the Director of the CFPB issued a letter to members of Congress stating that the CFPB intends to propose replacing the debt-to-income ratio limit requirement of a qualified mortgage with an alternative measure of a borrowers ability to repay, and the CFPB may extend the QM patch beyond its scheduled expiration date to accommodate the implementation of any proposed rulemaking. If the QM patch were to expire, it is expected that the number of mortgage loans eligible to be purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac would decrease which could result in a decrease in the GSEs market share while also potentially increasing the market share of non-agency MBS issuers. On March 27, 2019, President Trump issued a memorandum directing the Secretary of the Treasury to develop a plan for administrative and legislative reforms to achieve the following housing reform goals: (i) ending the conservatorships of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac upon the completion of specific reforms; (ii) facilitating competition in the housing finance market; (iii) establishing regulation of the GSEs in order to safeguard the safety and soundness of GSEs and minimizes the risks they pose to the financial stability of the United States; and (iv) providing that the Federal government is properly compensated for any explicit or implicit support it provides the GSEs or the secondary housing finance market. On September 5, 2019, the U.S. Treasury released its plan of recommended legislative and administrative reforms to the housing finance system to achieve the goals outlined in the Presidential memorandum. Since the release of the U.S. Treasurys plan of recommended reforms to the housing finance system, there have been preliminary actions taken to advance the goals in the plan of recapitalizing and ending the government conservatorship of the GSEs. First, on September 27, 2019, the FHFA and U.S. Treasury entered into an agreement that permits Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to retain up to $25 billion and $20 billion, respectively, in capital. As part of the agreement, the liquidation preference of the U.S. Treasurys senior preferred stock positions in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will be increased by a commensurate amount until the liquidation preferences increase by $22 billion for Fannie Mae and $17 billion for Freddie Mac. Second, on October 4, 2019, the FHFA released a solicitation for advisory services to assist in the formulation and potential implementation of a roadmap to responsibly end the conservatorships of the GSEs. We expect vigorous debate and discussion in a number of areas, including residential housing and mortgage reform, fiscal policy, monetary policy and healthcare, to continue over the next few years; however, we cannot be certain if or when any specific proposal or policy might be announced, emerge from committee or be approved by Congress, and if so, what the effects on us may be. LIBOR Transition 37 On July 27, 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021 , which could either cause LIBOR to stop publication immediately or cause LIBORs regulator to determine that its quality had degraded to the degree that it is no longer representative of its underlying market. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction wit h the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, is considering replacing U.S. dollar LIBOR with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements backed by U.S. Treasury securities. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York began publishing SOFR rates in April 2018. The likely market transition away from LIBOR and towards SOFR is expected to be gradual and complicated. There are significant d ifferences between LIBOR and SOFR, such as LIBOR being an unsecured lending rate while SOFR is a secured lending rate, and LIBOR reflects term rates at different maturities while SOFR is an overnight rate. These and other differences create the potential f or basis risk between the two rates. The impact of any basis risk between LIBOR and SOFR may negatively affect our operating results. Any of these alternative methods may result in interest rates that are either higher or lower than if LIBOR were available in its current form, which could have a material adverse effect on our results. We are party to various financial instruments which include LIBOR as a reference rate. As of December 31, 2019, these financial instruments include interest rate swap agreements, a mortgage loan investment, and preferred stock and unsecured notes issued by the Company. As of December 31, 2019, we had $2,985 million notional amount of interest rate swaps outstanding, including $1,335 million notional amount of interest rate swaps that expire after 2021. Under the terms of our interest rate swap agreements, we make semiannual interest payments based upon a fixed interest rate and receive quarterly interest payments based upon the prevailing three-month LIBOR on the date of reset. All of our existing interest rate swap agreements are centrally cleared by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) which acts as the calculation agent with the terms and conditions of each interest rates swap agreement defined in the CME Rulebook and supplemented by the rules published by the International Swaps and Derivative Association, Inc. (ISDA). The fallback terms of our current interest rate swap agreements were not designed to cover a permanent disc ontinuation of LIBOR. Under the terms of the current ISDA definitions, if the publication of LIBOR is not available, the current fallback is for the calculation agent to obtain quotations for what LIBOR should be from major banks in the interbank market. If LIBOR is permanently discontinued, it is possible that major banks would be unwilling and/or unable to give such quotations. Even if quotations were available in the near-term after the permanent discontinuation, it is unlikely that they will be available for each future reset date over the remaining tenor of our interest rate swap agreements. ISDA is currently leading an effort to amend its definitions to include fallbacks for an alternative reference rate that would apply upon the permanent discontinuation of LIBOR. It is anticipated that the amended ISDA definitions would include a statement identifying the objective triggers that would activate a fallback alternative interest rate provision and a description of the fallback alternative interest rate, which is expected to be SOFR adjusted for the fact that SOFR is an overnight rate and the various premia included within LIBOR. It is expected that the CME Rulebook would incorporate any amendments to the ISDA definitions. However, under the terms of the CME Rulebook, if a fallback to an alternative interest rate has not been triggered under future amended ISDA definitions, the CME as the calculation agent has the sole discretion to select an alternative interest rate if it determines that LIBOR is no longer representative of its underlying market. As of December 31, 2019, we had $15.0 million of junior subordinated debt outstanding that require quarterly interest payments at three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 2.25% to 3.00% and matures between 2033 and 2035. Under the terms of the indenture agreement for the notes, if the publication of LIBOR is not available, the current fallback is for the independent calculation agent to obtain quotations for what LIBOR should be from major banks in the interbank market. If the calculation agent is unable to obtain such quotations, then the LIBOR in effect for future interest payments would be LIBOR in effect for the immediately preceding interest payment period. As of December 31, 2019, we had a $45.0 million mortgage loan investment that bears interest at one-month LIBOR plus a spread of 4.25% with a LIBOR floor of 2.00%. The loan matures on December 30, 2021 with a one-year extension available at the option of the borrower. Under the terms of the loan agreement, if the administrative agent of the loan determines that LIBOR cannot be determined and LIBOR has been succeeded by an alternative floating rate index (i) that is commonly accepted by market participants as an alternative to LIBOR as determined by the administrative agent, (ii) that is publicly recognized by ISDA as an alternative to LIBOR, and (iii) for which ISDA has approved an amendment to hedge agreements generally providing such floating rate index as a standard alternative to LIBOR, then the administrative agent would use such alternative floating rate index as the fallback rate. If the administrative agent determines that no alternative rate index is available, then the fallback interest rate would be based on the prime rate plus an applicable spread. As of December 31, 2019, we had 1,200,000 shares of 8.250% Series C Fixed-to-Floating Rate Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (Series C Preferred Stock) outstanding with a liquidation preference of $30.0 million. The Series C Preferred Stock is entitled to receive a cumulative cash dividend (i) from and including the original issue to, but excluding, March 30, 2024 at a fixed rate of 8.250% per annum of the $25.00 per share liquidation preference, and (ii) from and including March 30, 2024, at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 5.664% per annum of the $25.00 liquidation preference. Under the terms of our Articles of Incorporation, if the publication of LIBOR is not available, the current fallback is for the Company to obtain quotations for what 38 LIBOR should be from major banks in the interbank market. If we are unable to obtain such quotations, we are required to appoint an independent calculation agent, which will determine LIBOR based on sources it deems reasonable in i ts sole discretion. If the calculation agent is unable or unwilling to determine LIBOR, then the LIBOR in effect for future dividend payments would be LIBOR in effect for the immediately preceding dividend payment period. Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph, if we determine that LIBOR has been discontinued, we will appoint an independent calculation agent to determine whether there is an industry accepted substitute or successor base rate to three-month LIBOR. If the calculation agent determines that there is an industry accepted substitute or successor base rate, the calculation agent shall use such substitute or successor base rate. If the calculation agent determines that there is not an accepted substitute or successor base rate, then the calculation agent will follow the original fallback language in the previous paragraph. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect of any such changes, any establishment of alternative reference rates or any other reforms to LIBOR that may be implemented in the U.K. or elsewhere. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes, alternative reference rates or other reforms may adversely affect the market for or value of any securities on which the interest or dividend is determined by reference to LIBOR, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or on our overall financial condition or results of operations. More generally, any of the above changes or any other consequential changes to LIBOR or any other benchmark as a result of international, national or other proposals for reform or other initiatives or investigations, or any further uncertainty in relation to the timing and manner of implementation of such changes, could have a material adverse effect on the value of and return on any securities based on or linked to a benchmark. Portfolio Overview The following table summarizes our mortgage investment portfolio at fair value as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands): December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 Agency MBS: Specified agency MBS $ 3,768,496 $ 3,982,106 Net long agency TBA dollar roll positions (1) Total agency MBS 3,768,496 3,982,106 Mortgage credit investments: Non-agency MBS 33,501 24 Mortgage loans 45,000 Total mortgage credit investments 78,501 24 Total mortgage investments $ 3,846,997 $ 3,982,130 (1) Represents the fair value of the agency MBS which underlie our TBA forward purchase and sale commitments executed as dollar roll transactions. In accordance with GAAP, our TBA forward purchase and sale commitments are reflected on the consolidated balance sheets as a component of derivative assets, at fair value and derivative liabilities, at fair value, with a collective net asset carrying value of $438 as of December 31, 2018. Agency MBS Investment Portfolio Our specified agency MBS consisted of the following as of December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands): Unpaid Principal Balance Net Unamortized Purchase Premiums Amortized Cost Basis Net Unrealized Gain (Loss) Fair Value Market Price Coupon Weighted Average Expected Remaining Life 30-year fixed rate: 2.5% $ 118,954 $ 675 $ 119,629 $ (1,458 ) $ 118,171 $ 99.34 2.50% 8.4 3.0% 1,377,252 35,860 1,413,112 (5,182 ) 1,407,930 102.23 3.00% 7.2 3.5% 1,154,885 35,422 1,190,307 10,791 1,201,098 104.00 3.50% 5.2 4.0% 738,732 24,440 763,172 19,969 783,141 106.01 4.00% 5.0 4.5% 240,634 11,451 252,085 6,057 258,142 107.28 4.50% 4.8 5.5% 12 12 2 14 112.61 5.50% 5.9 Total/weighted-average $ 3,630,469 $ 107,848 $ 3,738,317 $ 30,179 $ 3,768,496 $ 103.80 3.45% 6.0 39 Unpaid Principal Balance Net Unamortized Purchase Premiums Amortized Cost Basis Net Unrealized Gain (Loss) Fair Value Market Price Coupon Weighted Average Expected Remaining Life Fannie Mae $ 1,522,569 $ 44,240 $ 1,566,809 $ 14,107 $ 1,580,916 $ 103.83 3.46 % 6.0 Freddie Mac 2,107,900 63,608 2,171,508 16,072 2,187,580 103.78 3.44 % 5.9 Total/weighted-average $ 3,630,469 $ 107,848 $ 3,738,317 $ 30,179 $ 3,768,496 103.80 3.45 % 6.0 The actual annualized prepayment rate for the Companys agency MBS was 10.66% for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to 9.42% for the year ended December 31, 2018. As of December 31, 2019, the Companys agency MBS was comprised of securities specifically selected for their relatively lower propensity for prepayment, which includes approximately 74% in specified pools of low balance loans while the remainder includes specified pools of loans originated in certain geographical areas, loans refinanced through the U.S. Government sponsored Home Affordable Refinance Program or with other characteristics selected for their relatively lower propensity for prepayment. Our agency MBS investment portfolio may also include net long TBA positions, which are primarily the result of executing sequential series of dollar roll transactions that are settled on a net basis. In accordance with GAAP, we account for our net long TBA positions as derivative instruments. As of December 31, 2019, we did not have any net long TBA agency positions. Mortgage Credit Investment Portfolio Our mortgage credit investment portfolio was comprised of a $45.0 million commercial mortgage loan and $33.5 million of non-agency MBS collateralized primarily by commercial mortgage loans, all of which were acquired during the fourth quarter of 2019. The Companys non-agency MBS investments as of December 31, 2019 consisted primarily of investments collateralized by either a pool of small balance commercial mortgage loans or a single asset commercial mortgage loan. Economic Hedging Instruments The Company attempts to hedge a portion of its exposure to interest rate fluctuations associated with its agency MBS primarily through the use of interest rate hedging instruments. Specifically, these interest rate hedging instruments are intended to economically hedge changes, attributable to changes in benchmark interest rates, in agency MBS fair values and future interest cash flows on the Companys short-term financing arrangements. During 2019, the interest rate hedging instruments primarily used by the Company were centrally cleared interest rate swap agreements and exchange-traded 10-year U.S. Treasury note futures. The Companys interest rate swap agreements represent agreements to make semiannual interest payments based upon a fixed interest rate and receive quarterly variable interest payments based upon the prevailing three-month LIBOR on the date of reset. Information about the Companys outstanding interest rate swap agreements in effect as of December 31, 2019 is as follows (dollars in thousands): Weighted-average: Notional Amount Fixed Pay Rate Variable Receive Rate Net Receive (Pay) Rate Remaining Life (Years) Years to maturity: Less than 3 years $ 2,050,000 1.77% 1.92% 0.15% 1.6 3 to less than 7 years 510,000 1.61% 1.92% 0.31% 6.0 7 to less than 10 years 400,000 2.24% 1.91% (0.33)% 9.5 10 or more years 25,000 2.96% 1.90% (1.06)% 28.2 Total / weighted-average $ 2,985,000 1.81% 1.92% 0.11% 3.6 In addition to interest rate swap agreements, the Company may also use exchange-traded U.S. Treasury note futures that are short positions that mature on a quarterly basis. Upon the maturity date of these futures contracts, the Company has the option to either net settle each contract in cash in an amount equal to the difference between the current fair value of the underlying U.S. Treasury note and the contractual sale price inherent to the futures contract, or to physically settle the contract by delivering the underlying U.S. Treasury note. As of December 31, 2019, the Company had no outstanding U.S. Treasury note futures. 40 Results of Operations Net Interest Income Net interest income determined in accordance with GAAP primarily represents the interest income recognized from our specified agency MBS and mortgage credit investments (including the amortization of purchase premiums and accretion of purchase discounts), net of the interest expense incurred from repurchase agreement financing arrangements or other short- and long-term borrowing transactions. Net interest income determined in accordance with GAAP does not include TBA agency MBS dollar roll income, which we believe represents the economic equivalent of net interest income generated from our investments in non-specified fixed-rate agency MBS, nor does it include the net interest income or expense of our interest rate swap agreements, which are not designated as hedging instruments for financial reporting purposes. In our consolidated statements of comprehensive income prepared in accordance with GAAP, TBA agency MBS dollar roll income and the net interest income or expense from our interest rate swap agreements are reported as a component of the overall periodic change in the fair value of derivative instruments within the line item gain (loss) from derivative instruments, net of the investment gain (loss), net section. Investment Gain (Loss), Net Investment gain (loss), net primarily consists of periodic changes in the fair value (whether realized or unrealized) of the Companys mortgage investments and periodic changes in the fair value (whether realized or unrealized) of derivative instruments. General and Administrative Expenses Compensation and benefits expense includes base salaries, annual cash incentive compensation, and non-cash stock-based compensation. Annual cash incentive compensation is based on meeting estimated annual performance measures and discretionary components. Non-cash stock-based compensation includes expenses associated with stock-based awards granted to employees, including the Companys performance share units to named executive officers that are earned only upon the attainment of Company performance measures over the relevant measurement period. Other general and administrative expenses primarily consists of the following: professional services expenses, including accounting, legal and consulting fees; insurance expenses, including liability and property insurance; occupancy and equipment expense, including rental costs for our facilities, and depreciation and amortization of equipment and software; fees and commissions related to transactions in interest rate derivative instruments; Board of Director fees; and other operating expenses, including information technology expenses, business development costs, public company reporting expenses, proxy solicitation expenses, corporate registration fees, local license taxes, office supplies and other miscellaneous expenses. 41 Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 The following table presents the net income (loss) available (attributable) to common stock reported for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Interest income $ 123,478 $ 130,953 Interest expense 97,250 84,825 Net interest income 26,228 46,128 Investment advisory fee income 332 Investment gain (loss), net 2,197 (123,822 ) General and administrative expenses 15,015 13,370 Income (loss) before income taxes 13,742 (91,064 ) Income tax provision 733 Net income (loss) 13,742 (91,797 ) Dividend on preferred stock (2,600 ) (590 ) Net income (loss) available (attributable) to common stock 11,142 (92,387 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per common share $ 0.31 $ (3.18 ) Weighted-average diluted common shares outstanding 35,833 29,052 GAAP Net Interest Income Net interest income determined in accordance with GAAP (GAAP net interest income) decreased $19.9 million, or 43.2%, from $46.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 to $26.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease from the comparative period is primarily attributable to a 40 basis point increase in the average interest costs of our short-term secured financing arrangements (due primarily to an increase in prevailing benchmark short-term interest rates) as well as lower average leverage and portfolio volumes. The components of GAAP net interest income from our mortgage investment portfolio is summarized in the following table for the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Average Balance Income (Expense) Yield (Cost) Average Balance Income (Expense) Yield (Cost) Agency MBS $ 3,961,257 $ 122,227 3.09 % $ 4,199,274 $ 130,258 3.10 % Mortgage credit investments 2,703 192 7.10 % Other 1,059 695 $ 3,963,960 123,478 3.12 % $ 4,199,274 130,953 3.12 % Short-term secured debt $ 3,690,093 (92,200 ) (2.46 )% $ 3,817,870 (79,812 ) (2.06 )% Long-term unsecured debt 74,225 (5,050 ) (6.80 )% 74,001 (5,013 ) (6.77 )% $ 3,764,318 (97,250 ) (2.55 )% $ 3,891,871 (84,825 ) (2.15 )% Net interest income/spread (1) $ 26,228 0.66 % $ 46,128 1.06 % Net interest margin (1) 0.79 % 1.22 % (1) Net interest income/spread and net interest margin excludes interest on long-term unsecured debt. 42 The effects of changes in the composition of our investments on our GAAP net interest income from our mortgage investment activities are summarized below (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2019 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2018 Rate Volume Total Change Agency MBS $ (647 ) $ (7,384 ) $ (8,031 ) Mortgage credit investments 192 192 Other 364 364 Short-term secured debt (14,997 ) 2,609 (12,388 ) Long-term unsecured debt (23 ) (14 ) (37 ) $ (15,303 ) $ (4,597 ) $ (19,900 ) Economic Net Interest Income Economic net interest income, a non-GAAP financial measure, represents the interest income earned net of the interest expense incurred from all of our interest bearing financial instruments as well as the agency MBS which underlie, and are implicitly financed through, our TBA dollar roll transactions. Economic net interest income is comprised of the following: (i) net interest income determined in accordance with GAAP, (ii) TBA agency MBS dollar roll income, and (iii) net interest income earned or expense incurred from interest rate swap agreements. We believe that economic net interest income assists investors in understanding and evaluating the financial performance of the Companys long-term-focused, net interest spread-based investment strategy, prior to the deduction of core general and administrative expenses. For a full description of each of the three aforementioned components of economic net interest income, see Non-GAAP Core Operating Income below. The components of our economic net interest income are summarized in the following table for the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Average Balance Income (Expense) Yield (Cost) Average Balance Income (Expense) Yield (Cost) Agency MBS $ 3,961,257 $ 122,227 3.09 % $ 4,199,274 $ 130,258 3.10 % Mortgage credit investments 2,703 192 7.10 % TBA dollar rolls (1) 493,482 4,470 0.91 % 1,138,229 20,929 1.84 % Other 1,059 695 Short-term secured debt 3,690,093 (92,200 ) (2.46 )% 3,817,870 (79,812 ) (2.06 )% Interest rate swaps (2) 2,955,989 15,087 0.51 % 3,457,218 6,266 0.18 % Long-term unsecured debt 74,225 (5,050 ) (6.80 )% 74,001 (5,013 ) (6.77 )% Economic net interest income/margin (3) $ 45,785 1.14 % $ 73,323 1.47 % (1) TBA dollar roll average balance (average cost basis) is based upon the contractual price of the initial TBA purchase trade of each individual series of dollar roll transactions. TBA dollar roll income is net of implied financing costs. (2) Interest rate swap cost represents the weighted average net receive (pay) rate in effect for the period, adjusted for price alignment interest income earned or expense incurred on cumulative variation margin paid or received, respectively . (3) Economic net interest margin excludes interest on long-term unsecured debt. The effects of changes in the composition of our investments on our economic net interest income from our mortgage investment and related funding and hedging activities are summarized below (dollars in thousands): 43 Year Ended December 31, 2019 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2018 Rate Volume Total Change Agency MBS $ (647 ) $ (7,384 ) $ (8,031 ) Mortgage credit investments 192 192 TBA dollar rolls (4,604 ) (11,855 ) (16,459 ) Other 364 364 Short-term secured debt (14,997 ) 2,609 (12,388 ) Interest rate swaps 9,730 (909 ) 8,821 Long-term unsecured debt (23 ) (14 ) (37 ) $ (10,177 ) $ (17,361 ) $ (27,538 ) Economic net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2019 decreased relative to the prior year primarily due to lower average leverage and portfolio volumes and higher financing costs on the unhedged portion of our short-term secured financing arrangements and implied TBA financing (driven primarily by an increase in prevailing benchmark short-term interest rates). Investment Advisory Fee Income We formed a wholly-owned subsidiary, Rock Creek Investment Advisors, LLC (Rock Creek), which was approved as a registered investment adviser and is regulated under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the Advisers Act), in the fourth quarter of 2018 and commenced operations in December 2018. Rock Creek provides investment advisory services to institutional clients on a separate account basis by investing primarily in agency MBS. Rock Creek earns investment management fee income based upon a percentage of the capital funded by a client to its separate managed account. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized $0.3 million in investment advisory fee income. Investment Gain (Loss), Net As prevailing longer-term interest rates increase (decrease), the fair value of our investments in fixed rate agency MBS and TBA commitments generally decreases (increases). Conversely, the fair value of our interest rate derivative hedging instruments increases (decreases) in response to increases (decreases) in prevailing interest rates. While our interest rate derivative hedging instruments are designed to mitigate the sensitivity of the fair value of our agency MBS portfolio to fluctuations in interest rates, they are not generally designed to mitigate the sensitivity of our net book value to spread risk, which is the risk of an increase of the market spread between the yield on our agency MBS and the benchmark yield on U.S. Treasury securities or interest rate swaps. Accordingly, irrespective of fluctuations in interest rates, an increase (decrease) in MBS spreads will generally result in the underperformance (outperformance) of the values of agency MBS relative to interest rate hedging instruments. The following table presents information about the gains and losses recognized due to the changes in the fair value of our trading investments, which include agency MBS and mortgage credit investments, TBA transactions, and interest rate hedging instruments for the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Gains (losses) on agency MBS investments, net $ 128,181 $ (114,480 ) Losses on mortgage credit investments, net (152 ) (42 ) TBA commitments, net: TBA dollar roll income 4,470 20,929 Other gains (losses) from TBA commitments, net 15,904 (64,627 ) Total gains (losses) on TBA commitments, net 20,374 (43,698 ) Interest rate derivatives: Net interest income on interest rate swaps 15,087 6,266 Other (losses) gains from interest rate derivative instruments, net (161,651 ) 27,775 Total (losses) gains on interest rate derivatives, net (146,564 ) 34,041 Other, net 358 357 Investment gain (loss), net $ 2,197 $ (123,822 ) 44 During the year s ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 , agency MBS spreads widened which resulted in the underperformance of our investments in agency MBS and TBA commitments relative to our interest rate hedging instruments . General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased by $1.6 million, or 11.9%, from $13.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 to $15.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Compensation and benefits expensed increased by $1.9 million, or 22.9%, from $8.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 to $10.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in compensation and benefits expenses is primarily attributable to a reversal of $1.9 million of expense recognized in prior periods due to a reduction in the number of employee long-term performance oriented stock-based compensation units expected to vest based on deterioration in performance metrics recognized for the year ended December 31, 2018 with no comparable reversal recognized for the year ended December 31, 2019. Other general and administrative expenses decreased by $0.2 million, or 4.0%, from $5.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 to $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Income Tax Provision On December 27, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a plan for us to elect to be taxed and to operate in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 2019. So long as we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will generally not be subject to U.S. federal or state corporate income taxes on our taxable income to the extent that we distribute 100% of our taxable income to our shareholders on a timely basis. For taxable years ended December 31, 2018 and prior, we were subject to taxation as a corporation under Subchapter C of the Internal Revenue Code. Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 The following table presents the total comprehensive income (loss) reported for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Interest income $ 130,953 $ 121,248 Interest expense 84,825 51,514 Net interest income 46,128 69,734 Investment (loss) gain, net (123,822 ) 5,874 General and administrative expenses 13,370 18,570 (Loss) income before income taxes (91,064 ) 57,038 Income tax provision 733 39,603 Net (loss) income (91,797 ) 17,435 Dividend on preferred stock (590 ) (251 ) Net (loss) income (attributable) available to common stock (92,387 ) 17,184 Diluted (loss) earnings per common share $ (3.18 ) $ 0.66 Weighted-average diluted common shares outstanding 29,052 26,011 GAAP Net Interest Income GAAP net interest income decreased $23.6 million, or 33.9%, from $69.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 to $46.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease from the comparative period is primarily attributable to a 90 basis point increase in the average interest costs of our short-term secured financing arrangements due primarily to an increase in prevailing benchmark short-term interest rates, partially offset by an increase in the average asset yields of our specified agency MBS due to reinvestments from portfolio repositioning and monthly paydowns into higher current investment yields as a result of a rise in long-term interest rates and widening agency MBS spreads. The components of GAAP net interest income from our MBS portfolio is summarized in the following table for the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): 45 Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Average Balance Income (Expense) Yield (Cost) Average Balance Income (Expense) Yield (Cost) Agency MBS $ 4,199,274 $ 130,258 3.10 % $ 4,258,079 $ 120,968 2.84 % Other 695 280 $ 4,199,274 130,953 3.12 % $ 4,258,079 121,248 2.85 % Short-term secured debt $ 3,817,870 (79,812 ) (2.06 )% $ 3,950,139 (46,648 ) (1.16 )% Long-term unsecured debt 74,001 (5,013 ) (6.77 )% 73,778 (4,866 ) (6.60 )% $ 3,891,871 (84,825 ) (2.15 )% $ 4,023,917 (51,514 ) (1.26 )% Net interest income/spread (1) $ 46,128 1.06 % $ 69,734 1.69 % Net interest margin (1) 1.22 % 1.75 % (1) Net interest income/spread and net interest margin excludes interest on long-term unsecured debt. The effects of changes in the composition of our investments on our GAAP net interest income from our MBS investment activities are summarized below (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2018 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2017 Rate Volume Total Change Agency MBS $ 10,961 $ (1,671 ) $ 9,290 Other 415 415 Short-term secured debt (34,685 ) 1,521 (33,164 ) Long-term unsecured debt (132 ) (15 ) (147 ) $ (23,441 ) $ (165 ) $ (23,606 ) Economic Net Interest Income Economic net interest income, a non-GAAP financial measure, represents the interest income earned net of the interest expense incurred from all of our interest bearing financial instruments as well as the agency MBS which underlie, and are implicitly financed through, our TBA dollar roll transactions. Economic net interest income is comprised of the following: (i) net interest income determined in accordance with GAAP, (ii) TBA agency MBS dollar roll income, and (iii) net interest income earned or expense incurred from interest rate swap agreements. We believe that economic net interest income assists investors in understanding and evaluating the financial performance of the Companys long-term-focused, net interest spread-based investment strategy, prior to the deduction of core general and administrative expenses. For a full description of each of the three aforementioned components of economic net interest income, see Non-GAAP Core Operating Income below. The components of our economic net interest income are summarized in the following table for the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Average Balance Income (Expense) Yield (Cost) Average Balance Income (Expense) Yield (Cost) Agency MBS $ 4,199,274 $ 130,258 3.10 % $ 4,258,079 $ 120,968 2.84 % TBA dollar rolls (1) 1,138,229 20,929 1.84 % 985,610 21,291 2.16 % Other 695 280 Short-term secured debt 3,817,870 (79,812 ) (2.06 )% 3,950,139 (46,648 ) (1.16 )% Interest rate swaps (2) 3,457,218 6,266 0.18 % 3,472,936 (17,334 ) (0.50 )% Long-term unsecured debt 74,001 (5,013 ) (6.77 )% 73,778 (4,866 ) (6.60 )% Economic net interest income/margin (3) $ 73,323 1.47 % $ 73,691 1.50 % 46 (1) TBA dollar roll average balance (average cost basis) is based upon the contractual price of the initial TBA purchase trade of each individual series of dollar roll transactions. TBA dollar roll income is net of implied financing costs. (2) Interest rate swap cost represents the weighted average net receive (pay) rate in effect for the period, adjusted for price alignment interest income earned or expense incurred on cumulative variation margin paid or received, respectively . (3) Economic net interest margin excludes interest on long-term unsecured debt. The effects of changes in the composition of our investments on our economic net interest income from our MBS investment and related funding and hedging activities are summarized below (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2018 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2017 Rate Volume Total Change Agency MBS $ 10,961 $ (1,671 ) $ 9,290 TBA dollar rolls (3,659 ) 3,297 (362 ) Other 415 415 Short-term secured debt (34,685 ) 1,521 (33,164 ) Interest rate swaps 23,522 78 23,600 Long-term unsecured debt (132 ) (15 ) (147 ) $ (3,578 ) $ 3,210 $ (368 ) Economic net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2018 decreased relative to the prior year primarily due to higher financing costs on the unhedged portion of our short-term secured financing arrangements and implied TBA financing driven primarily by an increase in prevailing benchmark short-term interest rates, partially offset by higher average portfolio balances primarily driven by deployment of capital raised during the periods and an increase in the average asset yields of our specified agency MBS. Investment Gain (Loss), Net As prevailing longer-term interest rates increase (decrease), the fair value of our investments in fixed rate agency MBS and TBA commitments generally decreases (increases). Conversely, the fair value of our interest rate derivative hedging instruments increases (decreases) in response to increases (decreases) in prevailing interest rates. While our interest rate derivative hedging instruments are designed to mitigate the sensitivity of the fair value of our agency MBS portfolio to fluctuations in interest rates, they are not generally designed to mitigate the sensitivity of our net book value to spread risk, which is the risk of an increase of the market spread between the yield on our agency MBS and the benchmark yield on U.S. Treasury securities or interest rate swaps. Accordingly, irrespective of fluctuations in interest rates, an increase (decrease) in MBS spreads will generally result in the underperformance (outperformance) of the values of agency MBS relative to interest rate hedging instruments. The following table presents information about the gains and losses recognized due to the changes in the fair value of our agency MBS, TBA transactions, and interest rate derivative instruments for the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 (Losses) gains on trading investments, net $ (114,522 ) $ 2,424 TBA commitments, net: TBA dollar roll income 20,929 21,291 Other losses from TBA commitments, net (64,627 ) (4,580 ) Total (losses) gains on TBA commitments, net (43,698 ) 16,711 Interest rate derivatives: Net interest income (expense) on interest rate swaps 6,266 (17,334 ) Other gains from interest rate derivative instruments, net 27,775 3,847 Total gains (losses) on interest rate derivatives, net 34,041 (13,487 ) Other, net 357 226 Investment (loss) gain, net $ (123,822 ) $ 5,874 During the year ended December 31, 2018, agency MBS spreads widened meaningfully which resulted in the underperformance of our investments in agency MBS and TBA commitments relative to our interest rate hedging instruments. During the year ended 47 December 3 1, 2017, agency MBS spreads tightened modestly which resulted in the outperformance of our investments in agency MBS and TBA commitments relative to our interest rate hedging instruments. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses decreased by $5.2 million, or 28.0%, from $18.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 to $13.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Compensation and benefits expensed decreased by $4.9 million, or 37.1%, from $13.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 to $8.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease in compensation and benefits expenses for the year ended December 31, 2018 is mostly attributable to decreases in employee long-term performance oriented stock-based compensation and annual cash incentive compensation. Employee stock-based compensation decreased by $3.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year primarily due to the Company not expecting to achieve certain performance measures. Employee annual cash incentive compensation decreased $1.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the prior year due to not achieving specific annual performance measures and overall Company performance. Other general and administrative expenses decreased by $0.4 million, or 7.4%, from $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 to $5.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Income Tax Provision For our taxable years ended December 31, 2018 and earlier, we were subject to taxation as a corporation under Subchapter C of the Internal Revenue Code. For our taxable year ended December 31, 2018, we had NOL and NCL carryforwards that allowed us to eliminate any income tax liability for the year. On December 27, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a plan for us to elect to be taxed and to operate in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 2019. Since all significant actions necessary for us to qualify as a REIT effective January 1, 2019 were met as of December 31, 2018, we eliminated our deferred assets and liabilities as of that date. Accordingly, our income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2018 of $733 consists primarily of the elimination of our net deferred tax asset as of the beginning the year. For our taxable year ended December 31, 2017, we had NOL and NCL carryforwards that allowed us to eliminate any income tax liability for the year except for the taxable income subject to the federal alternative minimum tax. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized an income tax provision of $39.6 million, which includes an increase in the valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets of $16.8 million. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we determined that we should record a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets that are capital in nature consisting of our NCL carryforwards and temporary GAAP to tax differences that are expected to result in capital losses in future periods. The increase to the valuation allowance during the year ended December 31, 2017 is attributable primarily to the determination to record a full valuation allowance instead of a partial valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets that are capital in nature. Non-GAAP Core Operating Income In addition to the results of operations determined in accordance with GAAP, we reported non-GAAP core operating income. We define core operating income as economic net interest income and investment advisory fee income less core general and administrative expenses. Economic Net Interest Income Economic net interest income, a non-GAAP financial measure, represents the interest income earned net of the interest expense incurred from all of our interest bearing financial instruments as well as the agency MBS which underlie, and are implicitly financed through, our TBA dollar roll transactions. Economic net interest income is comprised of the following: (i) net interest income determined in accordance with GAAP, (ii) TBA agency MBS dollar roll income, and (iii) net interest income earned or expense incurred from interest rate swap agreements. We believe that economic net interest income assists investors in understanding and evaluating the financial performance of the Companys long-term-focused, net interest spread-based investment strategy, prior to the deduction of core general and administrative expenses. Net interest income determined in accordance with GAAP . Net interest income determined in accordance with GAAP primarily represents the interest income recognized from our specified agency MBS and mortgage credit investments (including the amortization of purchase premiums and accretion of purchase discounts), net of the interest expense incurred from repurchase agreement financing arrangements or other short- and long-term borrowing transactions. 48 TBA agency MBS dollar roll income . Dollar roll income repres ents the economic equivalent of net interest income (implied interest income net of financing costs) generated from our investments in non-specified fixed-rate agency MBS, executed through sequential series of forward-settling purchase and sale transaction s that are settled on a net basis (known as dollar roll transactions). Dollar roll income is generated as a result of delaying, or rolling, the settlement of a forward-settling purchase of a TBA agency MBS by entering into an offsetting spot sale wit h the same counterparty prior to the settlement date, net settling the paired-off positions in cash, and contemporaneously entering another forward-settling purchase with the same counterparty of a TBA agency MBS of the same essential characteristics for a later settlement date at a price discount relative to the spot sale. The price discount of the forward-settling purchase relative to the contemporaneously executed spot sale reflects compensation for the interest income (inclusive of expected prepayment s) that, at the time of sale, is expected to be foregone as a result of relinquishing beneficial ownership of the MBS from the settlement date of the spot sale until the settlement date of the forward purchase, net of implied repurchase financing costs. We calculate dollar roll income as the excess of the spot sale price over the forward-settling purchase price, and recognize this amount ratably over the period beginning on the settlement date of the sale and ending on the settlement date of the forward pur chase. In our consolidated statements of comprehensive income prepared in accordance with GAAP, TBA agency MBS dollar roll income is reported as a component of the overall periodic change in the fair value of TBA forward commitments within the line item g ain (loss) from derivative instruments, net of the investment gain (loss), net section. From time to time, we may enter into forward-settling TBA agency MBS sale commitments (known as a net short TBA position) as a means of economically hedging a portion of the interest rate sensitivity of our agency MBS investment portfolio. When we delay (or roll) the settlement of a net short TBA position, the price discount of the forward-settling sale relative to the contemporaneously executed spot purchase results in an implied net interest expense (i.e., dollar roll expense). In our presentation of non-GAAP core operating income, we present TBA dollar roll income net of any implied net interest expense that resulted from rolling the settlement of net short TBA positions. Net interest income earned or expense incurred from interest rate swap agreements . We utilize interest rate swap agreements to economically hedge a portion of our exposure to variability in future interest cash flows, attributable to changes in benchmark interest rates, associated with future roll-overs of our short-term financing arrangements. Accordingly, the net interest income earned or expense incurred (commonly referred to as net interest carry) from our interest rate swap agreements in combination with interest expense recognized in accordance with GAAP represents our effective economic interest expense. In our consolidated statements of comprehensive income prepared in accordance with GAAP, the net interest income earned or expense incurred from interest rate swap agreements is reported as a component of the overall periodic change in the fair value of derivative instruments within the line item gain (loss) from derivative instruments, net of the investment gain (loss), net section. Core General and Administrative Expenses Core general and administrative expenses are non-interest expenses reported within the line item total general and administrative expenses of the consolidated statements of comprehensive income less stock-based compensation expense. For the year ended December 31, 2019, core general and administrative expenses exclude a non-recurring expense related to a one-time out-of-period payment made in 2019 for a business, professional and occupation license tax from Arlington County, Virginia for the 2018 tax year. Refer to Note 11. Income Taxes for further information about the business, professional and occupation license tax and the associated payment made in 2019. Non-GAAP Core Operating Income The following table presents our computation of non-GAAP core operating income for the periods indicated (amounts in thousands, except per share amounts): 49 For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 GAAP net interest income $ 26,228 $ 46,128 $ 69,734 TBA dollar roll income 4,470 20,929 21,291 Interest rate swap net interest income (expense) 15,087 6,266 (17,334 ) Economic net interest income 45,785 73,323 73,691 Investment advisory fee income 332 Core general and administrative expenses (11,747 ) (12,534 ) (14,644 ) Preferred stock dividend (2,600 ) (590 ) (251 ) Non-GAAP core operating income $ 31,770 $ 60,199 $ 58,796 Non-GAAP core operating income per diluted common share $ 0.89 $ 2.06 $ 2.26 Weighted average diluted common shares outstanding 35,833 29,269 26,011 The following table provides a reconciliation of GAAP pre-tax net income (loss) to non-GAAP core operating income for the periods indicated (amounts in thousands): For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 GAAP net income (loss) before income taxes $ 13,742 $ (91,064 ) $ 57,038 Add (less): Total investment (gain) loss, net (2,197 ) 123,822 (5,874 ) Stock-based compensation expense 2,780 836 3,926 Preferred stock dividend (2,600 ) (590 ) (251 ) Non-recurring expense 488 Add back: TBA dollar roll income 4,470 20,929 21,291 Interest rate swap net interest income (expense) 15,087 6,266 (17,334 ) Non-GAAP core operating income $ 31,770 $ 60,199 $ 58,796 Non-GAAP core operating income is used by management to evaluate the financial performance of the Companys long-term-focused, net interest spread-based investment strategy and core business activities over periods of time as well as assist with the determination of the appropriate level of periodic dividends to common stockholders. In addition, we believe that non-GAAP core operating income assists investors in understanding and evaluating the financial performance of the Companys long-term-focused, net interest spread-based investment strategy and core business activities over periods of time as well as its earnings capacity. Periodic fair value gains and losses recognized with respect to our mortgage investments and economic hedging instruments, which are reported in line item total investment gain (loss), net of our consolidated statements of comprehensive income, are excluded from the computation of non-GAAP core operating income as such gains on losses are not reflective of the economic interest income earned or interest expense incurred from our interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities during the indicated reporting period. Because our long-term-focused investment strategy for our mortgage investment portfolio is to generate a net interest spread on the leveraged assets while prudently hedging periodic changes in the fair value of those assets attributable to changes in benchmark interest rates, we generally expect the fluctuations in the fair value of our mortgage investments and economic hedging instruments to largely offset one another over time. A limitation of utilizing this non-GAAP financial measure is that the effect of accounting for non-core events or transactions in accordance with GAAP does, in fact, reflect the financial results of our business and these effects should not be ignored when evaluating and analyzing our financial results. For example, the economic cost or benefit of hedging instruments other than interest rate swap agreements, such as U.S. Treasury note futures or options, do not affect the computation of non-GAAP core operating income. In addition, our calculation of non-GAAP core operating income may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies. Therefore, we believe that non-GAAP core operating income should be considered as a supplement to, and in conjunction with, net income and comprehensive income determined in accordance with GAAP. Furthermore, there may be differences between non-GAAP core operating income and taxable income determined in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) to qualify as a REIT and all of our taxable income in order to not be subject to any U.S. federal or state corporate income taxes. Accordingly, non-GAAP core operating income may not equal our distribution requirements as a REIT. 50 L iquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity is a measurement of our ability to meet potential cash requirements including ongoing commitments to repay borrowings, fund investments, meet margin calls on our short-term borrowings and hedging instruments, and for other general business purposes. Our primary sources of funds for liquidity consist of existing cash balances, short-term borrowings (for example, repurchase agreements), principal and interest payments from our mortgage investments, and proceeds from sales of mortgage investments. Other sources of liquidity include proceeds from the offering of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, or other securities registered pursuant to our effective shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business. Perceived liquidity issues may affect our counterparties willingness to engage in transactions with us. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects us or third parties. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. If we cannot obtain funding from third parties our results of operations could be negatively impacted. As of December 31, 2019, our debt-to-equity leverage ratio was 11.2 to 1 measured as the ratio of the sum of our total debt to our shareholders equity as reported on our consolidated balance sheet. In evaluating our liquidity and leverage ratios, we also monitor our at risk short-term financing to investable capital ratio. Our at risk short-term financing to investable capital ratio is measured as the ratio of the sum of our short-term secured financing (i.e. repurchase agreement financing), net payable or receivable for unsettled sales of securities and net contractual forward price of our TBA commitments less our cash and cash equivalents compared to our investable capital. Our investable capital is calculated as the sum of our stockholders equity and long-term unsecured debt. As of December 31, 2019, our at risk short-term secured financing to investable capital ratio was 8.7 to 1. Cash Flows As of December 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $19.6 million representing a net decrease of $7.1 million from $26.7 million as of December 31, 2018. Cash provided by operating activities of $46.5 million during 2019 was attributable primarily to net interest income less our general and administrative expenses. Cash provided by investing activities of $53.5 million during 2019 relates primarily to proceeds from sales and principal receipts on our agency MBS, partially offset by purchases of agency MBS and mortgage credit investments and net payments for settlements and deposits for margin on our interest rate derivative instruments. Cash used in financing activities of $107.1 million during 2019 relates primarily to net repayments of repurchase agreements used to finance a portion of our mortgage investment portfolio and dividend payments to stockholders, partially offset by proceeds received from issuances of common and preferred stock. Sources of Funding We believe that our existing cash balances, net investments in mortgage investments, cash flows from operations, borrowing capacity, and other sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. We may, however, seek debt or equity financings, in public or private transactions, to provide capital for corporate purposes and/or strategic business opportunities, including possible acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances or other business arrangements which could require substantial capital outlays. Our policy is to evaluate strategic business opportunities, including acquisitions and divestitures, as they arise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient funds from future operations, or raise sufficient debt or equity on acceptable terms, to take advantage of investment opportunities that become available. Should our needs ever exceed these sources of liquidity, we believe that substantially most of our investments could be sold, in most circumstances, to provide cash. However, we may be required to sell our assets in such instances at depressed prices. As of December 31, 2019, liquid assets consisted primarily of cash and cash equivalents of $19.6 million, unencumbered agency MBS of $98.4 million at fair value and unencumbered non-agency MBS of $2.7 million at fair value. Cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds invested in debt obligations of the U.S. government. Debt Capital Long-Term Unsecured Debt As of December 31, 2019, we had $74.3 million of total long-term debt, net of unamortized debt issuance costs of $1.0 million. Our trust preferred debt with a principal amount of $15.0 million outstanding as of December 31, 2019 accrue and require the payment of interest quarterly at three-month LIBOR plus 2.25% to 3.00% and mature between 2033 and 2035. Our 6.625% Senior Notes due 2023 with a principal amount of $25.0 million outstanding as of December 31, 2019 accrue and require payment of interest quarterly at an annual rate of 6.625% and mature on May 1, 2023. Our 6.75% Senior Notes due 2025 with a principal amount of $35.3 million outstanding as of December 31, 2019 accrue and require payment of interest quarterly at an annual rate of 6.75% and mature on March 15, 2025. 51 Repurchase Agreements We have short-term financing facilities that are structured as repurchase agreements with various financial institutions to fund our investments in mortgage investments. We have obtained, and believe we will be able to continue to obtain, short-term financing in amounts and at interest rates consistent with our financing objectives. Funding for mortgage investments through repurchase agreements continues to be available to us at rates we consider to be attractive from multiple counterparties. Our repurchase agreements include provisions contained in the standard master repurchase agreement as published by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA) and may be amended and supplemented in accordance with industry standards for repurchase facilities. Certain of our repurchase agreements include financial covenants, with which the failure to comply would constitute an event of default under the applicable repurchase agreement. Similarly, each repurchase agreement includes events of insolvency and events of default on other indebtedness as similar financial covenants. As provided in the standard master repurchase agreement as typically amended, upon the occurrence of an event of default or termination, the applicable counterparty has the option to terminate all repurchase transactions under such counterpartys repurchase agreement and to demand immediate payment of any amount due from us to the counterparty. Under our repurchase agreements, we may be required to pledge additional assets to our repurchase agreement counterparties in the event the estimated fair value of the existing pledged collateral under such agreements declines and such lenders demand additional collateral (commonly referred to as a margin call), which may take the form of additional securities or cash. Margin calls on repurchase agreements collateralized by our mortgage investments primarily result from events such as declines in the value of the underlying mortgage collateral caused by factors such as rising interest rates or prepayments. Our repurchase agreements generally provide that valuations for mortgage investments securing our repurchase agreements are to be obtained from a generally recognized source agreed to by both parties. However, in certain circumstances and under certain of our repurchase agreements, our lenders have the sole discretion to determine the value of the mortgage investments securing our repurchase agreements. In such instances, our lenders are required to act in good faith in making determinations of value. Our repurchase agreements generally provide that in the event of a margin call, we must provide additional securities or cash on the same business day that the margin call is made if the lender provides us notice prior to the margin notice deadline on such day. To date, we have not had any margin calls on our repurchase agreements that we were not able to satisfy with either cash or additional pledged collateral. However, should we encounter increases in interest rates or prepayments, margin calls on our repurchase agreements could result in a material adverse change in our liquidity position. Our repurchase agreement counterparties apply a haircut to the value of the pledged collateral, which means the collateral is valued, for the purposes of the repurchase agreement transaction, at less than fair value. Upon the renewal of a repurchase agreement financing at maturity, a lender could increase the haircut percentage applied to the value of the pledged collateral, thus reducing our liquidity. Our repurchase agreements generally mature within 30 to 60 days, but may have maturities as short as one day and as long as one year. In the event that market conditions are such that we are unable to continue to obtain repurchase agreement financing for our mortgage investments in amounts and at interest rates consistent with our financing objectives, we may liquidate such investments and may incur significant losses on any such sales of mortgage investments. 52 The following table provides information regarding our outstanding repurchase ag reement borrowings as of dates and periods indicated (dollars in thousands): December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 Pledged with agency MBS: Repurchase agreements outstanding $ 3,560,139 $ 3,721,629 Agency MBS collateral, at fair value (1) 3,741,399 3,931,232 Net amount (2) 181,260 209,603 Weighted-average rate 2.10 % 2.72 % Weighted-average term to maturity 23.7 days 17.3 days Pledged with non-agency MBS: Repurchase agreements outstanding $ 21,098 $ Non-agency MBS collateral, at fair value 30,747 Net amount (2) 9,649 Weighted-average rate 3.11 % Weighted-average term to maturity 8.1 days Total MBS: Repurchase agreements outstanding $ 3,581,237 $ 3,721,629 MBS collateral, at fair value (1) 3,772,146 3,931,232 Net amount (2) 190,909 209,603 Weighted-average rate 2.11 % 2.72 % Weighted-average term to maturity 23.6 days 17.3 days (1) As of December 31, 2019, includes $71,284 at sale price of unsettled agency MBS sale commitments which is included in the line item sold securities receivable in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Net amount represents the value of collateral in excess of corresponding repurchase obligation. The amount of collateral at-risk is limited to the outstanding repurchase obligation and not the entire collateral balance . ( 2 ) Net amount represents the value of collateral in excess of corresponding repurchase obligation. The amount of collateral at-risk is limited to the outstanding repurchase obligation and not the entire collateral balance. To limit our exposure to counterparty risk, we diversify our repurchase agreement funding across multiple counterparties and by counterparty region. As of December 31, 2019, we had outstanding repurchase agreement balances with 16 counterparties and have master repurchase agreements in place with a total of 18 counterparties located throughout North America, Europe and Asia. As of December 31, 2019, no more than 6.0% of our stockholders equity was at risk with any one counterparty, with the top five counterparties representing 25.9% of our stockholders equity. The table below includes a summary of our repurchase agreement funding by number of counterparties and counterparty region as of December 31, 2019: Number of Counterparties Percent of Repurchase Agreement Funding North America 10 63.0 % Europe 2 15.2 % Asia 4 21.8 % 16 100.0 % Derivative Instruments In the normal course of our operations, we are a party to financial instruments that are accounted for as derivative financial instruments including (i) interest rate hedging instruments such as interest rate swaps, U.S. Treasury note futures, put and call options on U.S. Treasury note futures, Eurodollar futures, interest rate swap futures and options on agency MBS, and (ii) derivative instruments that economically serve as investments such as TBA purchase and sale commitments. Interest Rate Hedging Instruments We exchange cash variation margin with the counterparties to our interest rate hedging instruments at least on a daily basis based upon daily changes in fair value as measured by the central clearinghouse through which those derivatives are cleared. In addition, the central clearinghouse requires market participants to deposit and maintain an initial margin amount which is determined by the clearinghouse and is generally intended to be set at a level sufficient to protect the clearinghouse from the maximum estimated single-day price movement in that market participants contracts. However, the futures commission merchants (FCMs) through which we conduct trading of our cleared and exchanged-traded hedging instruments may require incremental initial 53 margin in excess of the clearinghouses requirement. The clearing exchanges have the sole discretion to determine the value of our hedging instruments for the purpose of setting initial and variation margin requirements or otherwise . In the event of a mar gin call, we must generally provide additional collateral on the same business day. To date, we have not had any margin calls on our hedging agreements that we were not able to satisfy. However, if we encounter significant decreases in long-term interest r ates, margin calls on our hedging agreements could result in a material adverse change in our liquidity position . As of December 31, 2019, we had outstanding interest rate swaps with the following aggregate notional amount and corresponding initial margin held in collateral deposit with the custodian (in thousands): December 31, 2019 Notional Amount Collateral Deposit Interest rate swaps $ 2,985,000 $ 37,122 The FCMs through which we conduct trading of our hedging instruments may limit their exposure to us (due to an inherent one business day lag in the variation margin exchange process) by applying a maximum ceiling on their level of risk, either overall and/or by instrument type. The FCMs generally use the amount of initial margin that we have posted with them as a measure of their level of risk exposure to us. We currently have FCM relationships with four large financial institutions. To date, among our four FCM arrangements, we have had sufficient excess capacity above and beyond what we believe to be a sufficient and appropriate hedge position. However, if our FCMs substantially lowered their risk exposure thresholds, we could experience a material adverse change in our liquidity position and our ability to hedge appropriately. TBA Dollar Roll Transactions TBA dollar roll transactions represent a form of off-balance sheet financing accounted for as derivative instruments. In a TBA dollar roll transaction, we do not intend to take physical delivery of the underlying agency MBS and will generally enter into an offsetting position and net settle the paired-off positions in cash. However, under certain market conditions, it may be uneconomical for us to roll our TBA contracts into future months and we may need to take or make physical delivery of the underlying securities. If we were required to take physical delivery to settle a long TBA contract, we would have to fund our total purchase commitment with cash or other financing sources and our liquidity position could be negatively impacted. Our TBA commitments and our commitments to purchase and sell specified agency MBS are subject to master securities forward transaction agreements published by SIFMA as well as supplemental terms and conditions with each counterparty. Under the terms of these agreements, we may be required to pledge collateral to our counterparty in the event the fair value of our agency MBS commitments decline and such counterparty demands collateral through a margin call. Margin calls on agency MBS commitments are generally caused by factors such as rising interest rates or prepayments. Our agency MBS commitments provide that valuations for our commitments and any pledged collateral are to be obtained from a generally recognized source agreed to by both parties. However, in certain circumstances, our counterparties have the sole discretion to determine the value of the agency MBS commitment and any pledged collateral. In such instances, our counterparties are required to act in good faith in making determinations of value. In the event of a margin call, we must generally provide additional collateral on the same business day . Equity Capital Common Equity Distribution Agreements On February 22, 2017, we entered into separate common equity distribution agreements with equity sales agents JMP Securities LLC, FBR Capital Markets & Co., JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC and Ladenburg Thalmann & Co. Inc. pursuant to which we may offer and sell, from time to time, up to 6,000,000 shares of our Class A common stock. On August 10, 2018, we entered into separate amendments to the equity distribution agreements with equity sales agents JMP Securities LLC, B. Riley FBR, Inc. (formerly, FBR Capital Markets & Co.), JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC and Ladenburg Thalmann & Co. Inc. pursuant to which we may offer and sell, from time to time, up to 12,597,423 shares of our Class A common stock. Pursuant to the common equity distribution agreements, shares of our common stock may be offered and sold through the equity sales agents in transactions that are deemed to be at the market offerings as defined in Rule 415 under the Securities Act of 1933, including sales made directly on the NYSE or sales made to or through a market maker other than on an exchange or, subject to the terms of a written notice from us, in privately negotiated transactions . As of December 31, 2019, we had 11,302,160 shares of Class A common stock available for sale under the common equity distribution agreements. 54 Preferred Stock As of December 31, 2019, we had Series B Preferred Stock outstanding with a liquidation preference of $8.9 million. The Series B Preferred Stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AI PrB. The Series B Preferred Stock has no stated maturity, is not subject to any sinking fund and will remain outstanding indefinitely unless repurchased or redeemed by us. Holders of Series B Preferred Stock have no voting rights, except under limited conditions and are entitled to receive a cumulative cash dividend at a rate of 7.00% per annum of their $25.00 per share liquidation preference (equivalent to $1.75 per annum per share). Shares of Series B Preferred Stock are redeemable at $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not authorized or declared) exclusively at our option commencing on May 12, 2022 or earlier upon the occurrence of a change in control. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears on the 30th day of each December, March, June and September, when and as declared . We have declared and paid all required quarterly dividends on our Series B Preferred Stock to date. As of December 31, 2019, we had Series C Preferred Stock outstanding with a liquidation preference of $30.0 million. The Series C Preferred Stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AI PrC. Th e Series C Preferred Stock has no stated maturity, is not subject to any sinking fund and will remain outstanding indefinitely unless repurchased or redeemed by us. Holders of Series C Preferred Stock have no voting rights except under limited conditions and will be entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends (i) from and including the original issue date to, but excluding, March 30, 2024 at a fixed rate equal to 8.250% per annum of the $25.00 per share liquidation preference (equivalent to $2.0625 per annum per share) and (ii) from and including March 30, 2024, at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 5.664% per annum. Shares of Series C Preferred Stock are redeemable at $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not authorized or declared) exclusively at our option commencing on March 30, 2024 or earlier upon the occurrence of a change in control or under circumstances where it is necessary to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Under certain circumstances upon a change of control, the Series C Preferred Stock is convertible into shares of the Companys common stock. Dividends will be payable quarterly in arrears on the 30th day of March, June, September and December of each year, when and as declared. We have declared and paid all required quarterly dividends on our Series C Preferred Stock to date. Preferred Equity Distribution Agreement On May 16, 2017, we entered into an equity distribution agreement with JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC, pursuant to which we may offer and sell, from time to time, up to 1,865,000 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock. On March 21, 2019, we entered into an amended and restated equity distribution agreement with JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC, B. Riley FBR, Inc., Compass Point Research and Trading, LLC and Ladenburg Thalmann & Co. Inc., pursuant to which we may offer and sell, from time to time, up to 1,647,370 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock. Pursuant to the Series B preferred equity distribution agreement, shares of our Series B Preferred stock may be offered and sold through the preferred equity sales agents in transactions that are deemed to be at the market offerings as defined in Rule 415 under the Securities Act of 1933, including sales made directly on the NYSE or sales made to or through a market maker other than on an exchange or, subject to the terms of a written notice from us, in privately negotiated transactions . As of December 31, 2019, we had 1,645,961 shares of Series B Preferred stock available for sale under the Series B preferred equity distribution agreement. Common Share Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors authorized the Repurchase Program pursuant to which we may repurchase up to 2.0 million shares of our Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2019, 1,951,305 shares of Class A common stock remain available for repurchase under the repurchase program. REIT Distribution Requirements Commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 2019, we intend to elect to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. As a REIT, we are required to distribute annually 90% of our REIT taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) to our shareholders. So long as we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will generally not be subject to U.S. Federal or state corporate income taxes on our taxable income that we distribute to our shareholders on a timely basis. At present, it is our intention to distribute 100% of our taxable income, although we will not be required to do so. We intend to make distributions of our taxable income within the time limits prescribed by the Internal Revenue Code, which may extend into the subsequent taxable year. 55 Con tractual Obligations We have contractual obligations to make future payments in connection with long-term unsecured debt and non-cancelable lease agreements and other contractual commitments. The following table sets forth these contractual obligations by fiscal year as of December 31, 2019 (in thousands): 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Thereafter Total Long-term debt maturities $ $ $ $ 25,000 $ $ 50,300 $ 75,300 Interest on long-term debt (1) 4,750 4,750 4,750 3,922 3,094 7,361 28,627 Minimum rental commitments 52 65 55 172 $ 4,802 $ 4,815 $ 4,805 $ 28,922 $ 3,094 $ 57,661 $ 104,099 (1) Includes interest on (i) $25.0 million of Senior Notes due 2023 with a fixed annual interest rate of 6.625% that will mature on May 1, 2023 and (ii) $35.3 million of Senior Notes due 2025 with a fixed annual interest rate of 6.75% that will mature on March 15, 2025. Also includes interest on $15.0 million of trust preferred debt with variable interest rates indexed to three-month LIBOR and reset quarterly. Interest on trust preferred debt is based upon a weighted-average interest rate of 4.74%, which represents the weighted-average contractual interest rate in effect as of December 31, 2019. The trust preferred debt will mature beginning in October 2033 through July 2035. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Other Commitments As of December 31, 2019, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance, or special purpose or variable interest entities (VIEs), established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Our economic interests held in unconsolidated VIEs are limited in nature to those of a passive holder of MBS issued by a securitization trust. As of December 31, 2019, we had not consolidated for financial reporting purposes any securitization trusts as we do not have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of such entities. Further, as of December 31, 2019, we had not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities or entered into any commitment or intent to provide funding to any such entities. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements under