Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or this Quarterly Report, and in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2011. Certain of these statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding the extent and timing of future revenues and expenses and customer demand, statements regarding the deployment of our products, statements regarding our reliance on third parties and other statements using words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, forecasts, intends, may, plans, projects, should, will and would, and words of similar import and the negatives thereof, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are predictions based upon our current expectations about future events. Actual results could vary materially as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, those expressed in these statements. We refer you to the Risk Factors, Results of Operations, Disclosures About Market Risk, and Liquidity and Capital Resources sections contained in this Quarterly Report, and the risks discussed in our other Securities Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings, which identify important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. Overview We develop electronic design automation, or EDA, software, hardware, and design intellectual property, or IP. We license software and design IP, sell or lease hardware technology, provide maintenance for our software, design IP and hardware and provide engineering and education services throughout the world to help manage and accelerate product development processes for electronics. Our customers use our products and services to design and develop complex integrated circuits, or ICs, and electronics systems. We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software and design IP, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our products and providing engineering services. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from IC and electronics systems manufacturers and designers and is dependent upon their commencement of new design projects. As a result, our revenue is significantly influenced by our customers business outlook and investment in the introduction of new products and the improvement of existing products. Semiconductor industry growth during 2011 has been slower than most research firms projected at the beginning of the year. It now appears that semiconductor industry revenue will be similar to 2010 due to lower sales of personal computers and memory chips. While EDA customers remain cautious about making substantial new EDA expenditures, we believe that spending on EDA offerings may still grow modestly as customers invest in new projects. Electronics companies demand ever higher levels of productivity from their design teams, better predictability in their development schedules and higher quality products in order to be competitive and profitable in the price-conscious markets they serve. Electronics companies are responding to demand for increased functionality and miniaturization by combining subsystems such as radio frequency, or RF, 29 Table of Contents wireless communication, video signal processing and microprocessors onto a single silicon chip, creating a system-on-chip, or SoC, or multiple chips into a single chip package in a format referred to as system-in-package, or SiP. These trends toward subsystem integration have required chip makers to find solutions to challenges previously addressed by system companies, such as verifying system-level functionality and hardware-software interoperability. Our offerings address many of the challenges associated with developing unique silicon circuitry, integrating original circuitry with design IP developed by third parties to create SoCs, and combining ICs and SoCs with software to create electronic systems. Our strategy is to provide our customers with the ability to address the broad range of issues that arise at the silicon, SoC, and system levels. In 2010, we published our vision for the industry, called EDA360, which describes in detail the challenges and opportunities in EDA. The most significant issues that our customers face in creating their products include optimizing energy consumption, manufacturing microscopic circuitry, verifying device functionality, and achieving technical performance targets, all while meeting aggressive cost requirements. These issues are becoming more complex as requirements for performance, size, cost, and features evolve across the full spectrum of electronics products, such as smart phones, tablets, televisions, communications and internet infrastructure, and computing platforms. Providers of EDA solutions must deliver products that address these technical challenges while improving the productivity, predictability, reliability and profitability of the design processes and products of their customers. We combine our products and technologies into platforms for four major design activities: Functional Verification and Design IP; Digital IC Design and Implementation; Custom IC Design and Verification; and System Interconnect Design. The four Cadence design platforms are branded as Incisive functional verification, Encounter digital IC design, Virtuoso custom design and Allegro system interconnect design. In addition, we augment these platform product offerings with a set of design for manufacturing, or DFM, products that service both the digital and custom IC design flows. Our functional verification offerings include both design IP and verification IP. The products and technologies that comprise our platforms are combined with services, ready-to-use packages of technologies assembled from our broad portfolio and other associated components that provide comprehensive solutions for low power, mixed signal, enterprise verification and advanced node designs. These solutions and their constituent elements are marketed to users who specialize in areas such as system design and verification, functional verification, logic design, digital implementation, custom IC design and printed circuit board, or PCB, and IC package and SiP design. We have identified certain items that management uses as performance indicators to manage our business, including revenue, certain elements of operating expenses and cash flow from operations, and we describe these items further below under the heading Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources. Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income (loss) and net income, as 30 Table of Contents well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. At least quarterly, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates and make changes accordingly. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results. For further information about our critical accounting estimates, see the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2011. On January 2, 2011, we adopted new accounting standards prospectively for multiple element arrangements, or MEAs, and for revenue arrangements that include both hardware and software elements. For a detailed discussion of these new accounting standards, see Note 3 in our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result of this adoption, additional assumptions, judgments and estimates are now required in the accounting for revenue recognition, which are described below. Revenue Recognition We begin to recognize revenue from licensing and supporting our software, IP and hardware products when all of the following criteria are met: We have persuasive evidence of an arrangement with a customer; Delivery has occurred; The fee for the arrangement is considered to be fixed or determinable, at the outset of the arrangement; and Collectibility of the fee is probable. Significant judgment is involved in the determination of whether the facts and circumstances of an arrangement support that the fee for the arrangement is considered to be fixed or determinable and that collectibility of the fee is probable, and these judgments can affect the amount of revenue that we recognize in a particular reporting period. We must also make these judgments when assessing whether a contract amendment to a term arrangement (primarily in the context of a license extension or renewal) constitutes a concession. Our experience has been that we are able to determine whether a fee is fixed or determinable for term licenses and we have established a history of collecting under the original contract without providing concessions on payments, products or services. For installment contracts that do not include a substantial up-front payment, we consider that a fee is fixed or determinable only if the arrangement has payment periods that are equal to or less than the term of the licenses and the payments are collected in equal or nearly equal installments, when evaluated over the entire term of the arrangement. While we do not expect our experience to change, if we no longer were to have a history of collecting under the original contract without providing concessions on term licenses, revenue from term licenses would be required to be recognized when payments under the installment contract become due and payable. Such a change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our experience has been that we are generally able to estimate whether collection is probable. Significant judgment is applied as we assess the creditworthiness of our customers to make this determination. If our experience were to change, such a change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If, in our judgment, collection of a fee is not probable, we defer the revenue until the uncertainty is removed, which generally means revenue is recognized upon receipt of cash payment from the customer. 31 Table of Contents We generally recognize revenue for subscription licenses of our software products, including our eDA Platinum Cards, ratably over the term of the license agreement beginning with delivery of the products, and such revenue is allocated between product and maintenance revenue. For term and perpetual licenses of our software products that include a stated annual maintenance renewal rate, including our eDA Gold Cards, software license fees are recognized up-front when all four of the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are met, generally upon delivery. In either case, maintenance fees are recognized ratably over the maintenance term. Under our current business model, a relatively small percentage of our revenue from software licenses is recognized on an up-front basis. Sale of our hardware products generally involves the following deliverables: the hardware product and its related essential software, and maintenance for the hardware and the essential software. Consideration allocated to the hardware product and the essential software is recognized as revenue at the time of delivery provided all other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Consideration allocated to the maintenance is recognized ratably over the maintenance term. Revenue from services contracts is recognized either on the time and materials method, as work is performed, or on the percentage-of-completion method. For contracts with fixed or not-to-exceed fees, we estimate on a monthly basis the percentage of completion based on the completion of milestones relating to the arrangement. We have a history of accurately estimating project status and the costs necessary to complete projects. A number of internal and external factors can affect our estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances, and specification and testing requirement changes. If different conditions were to prevail such that accurate estimates could not be made, then the use of the completed contract method would be required and the recognition of all revenue and costs would be deferred until the project was completed. Such a change could have a material impact on our results of operations. If a group of contracts might be so closely related that they are, in effect, part of a single arrangement, such arrangements may be an MEA. We exercise significant judgment to evaluate the relevant facts and circumstances in determining whether the separate contracts should be accounted for individually as distinct arrangements or whether the separate contracts are, in substance, an MEA. Our judgments about whether a group of contracts is an MEA can affect the timing of revenue recognition under those contracts, which could have an effect on our results of operations for the periods involved. For example, when term license agreements that would otherwise result in up-front revenue upon delivery are executed within close proximity, or in contemplation of, other license agreements that require ratable revenue recognition with the same customer, the agreements together may be deemed an MEA, in which event all the revenue is recognized over the longest term of any component of the MEA instead of up-front. For a single transaction or MEA that includes software and nonsoftware elements, we allocate consideration to all deliverables based on their relative standalone selling prices. Revenue allocated to each deliverable is then recognized when all four criteria are met. In these circumstances, there is a hierarchy to determine the standalone selling price to be used for allocating consideration to the deliverables as follows: Vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value, or VSOE; Third-party evidence of selling price, or TPE; and Best estimate of the selling price, or ESP. We calculate the ESP of our hardware products based on our pricing practices, including the historical average prices charged for comparable hardware products, as VSOE or TPE could not be 32 Table of Contents established. Our process for determining ESP for our software deliverables without VSOE or TPE takes into account multiple factors that vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. Key external and internal factors considered in developing the ESPs include prices charged by us for similar arrangements, historical pricing practices and the nature of the product. In addition, when developing ESPs, we may consider other factors as appropriate, including the pricing of competitive alternatives if they exist, and product-specific business objectives. We exercise significant judgment to evaluate the relevant facts and circumstances in calculating the ESP of the deliverables in our arrangements. Results of Operations Financial results for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2011, as compared to the three and nine months ended October 2, 2010, reflect the following: An increase in revenue primarily because of: Increased revenue recognized from bookings in prior quarters from our continuing transition to a ratable license mix and a decrease in the average contract duration; Increases in the sale and lease of our hardware products; and Our acquisition of Denali in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. An increase in employee-related costs for commissions and other employee incentive compensation primarily resulting from improving business levels, partially offset by decreased costs as a result of our prior year restructuring plans; An increase in the cost of hardware products sold due to increases in the sale and lease of our hardware products; An increase in operating expenses, primarily research and development, including increased expenses related to the acquisition of Denali; Effective settlement during the three and nine months ended October 2, 2010 of the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2000 through 2002, which resulted in a benefit for income taxes of $148.3 million; and The increase in deferred tax liabilities from the intangible assets acquired with Denali and the resulting benefit for income taxes because of the release of valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets during the nine months ended October 2, 2010. Revenue We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software and design IP, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software, design IP and hardware and providing engineering services. We principally use three license types: subscription, term and perpetual. The different license types provide a customer with different conditions of use for our products, such as: The right to access new technology; The duration of the license; and Payment timing. The timing of our product revenue is significantly affected by the mix of orders executed in any given period and whether the revenue for such orders is recognized over multiple periods or up-front, upon completion of delivery. We seek to achieve a mix of bookings with approximately 90% of the aggregate value of our bookings of a type for which the revenue is recurring, or ratable, in nature, and approximately 10% of the resulting revenue recognized up-front, upon completion of delivery. Our ability to achieve this 90% to 10% 33 Table of Contents ratio of ratable to up-front bookings may be impacted by an increase in hardware sales beyond our current expectations, because revenue for hardware sales is generally recognized up-front in the quarter in which it is installed and ready for use. For an additional description of the impact of hardware sales on the anticipated mix of bookings, see the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition above, and Note 3 in our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. During the three and nine months ended October 1, 2011, and October 2, 2010, approximately 90% of the aggregate value of our bookings was of a type for which the revenue is recurring, or ratable, in nature. Customer decisions regarding these aspects of license transactions determine the license type, timing of revenue recognition and potential future business activity. For example, if a customer chooses a fixed duration of use, this will result in either a subscription or term license. A business implication of this decision is that, at the expiration of the license period, the customer must decide whether to continue using the technology and therefore renew the license agreement. Historically, larger customers generally have used products from two or more of our five product groups and rarely completely terminated their relationship with us upon expiration of the license. See the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition above for an additional description of license types and timing of revenue recognition. Although we believe that pricing volatility has not generally been a material component of the change in our revenue from period to period, we believe that the amount of revenue recognized in future periods will depend on, among other things, the: Competitiveness of our new technology; Length of our sales cycle; and Size, duration, terms and type of: Contract renewals with existing customers; Additional sales to existing customers; and Sales to new customers. The value and renewal of contracts, and consequently product revenue recognized, are affected by the competitiveness of our products. Product revenue recognized in any period is also affected by the extent to which customers purchase subscription, term or perpetual licenses, and by the extent to which contracts contain flexible payment terms. Revenue by Period The following table shows our revenue for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010 and the change in revenue between periods: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change (In millions) Product $ 164.0 $ 118.2 $ 45.8 $ 463.7 $ 338.0 $ 125.7 Services 29.1 23.9 5.2 86.4 75.1 11.3 Maintenance 99.4 95.8 3.6 291.7 273.8 17.9 Total revenue $ 292.5 $ 237.9 $ 54.6 $ 841.8 $ 686.9 $ 154.9 Product revenue increased during the three and nine months ended October 1, 2011, as compared to the three and nine months ended October 2, 2010, primarily because of increased revenue recognized from bookings in prior quarters from our continuing transition to a ratable license mix and a decrease in the average contract duration, an increase in revenue related to the sale and lease of our hardware products and an increase in revenue due to our acquisition of Denali in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. 34 Table of Contents Services revenue increased during the three and nine months ended October 1, 2011, as compared to the three and nine months ended October 2, 2010, primarily because of cash collections from customers for which revenue is recognized upon receipt of cash payment and higher utilization rates for our services personnel. We adopted new revenue recognition accounting standards on the first day of fiscal 2011 for revenue arrangements that include both hardware and software elements. If we had accounted for arrangements entered into on or after January 2, 2011 under the pre-existing accounting standards, revenue for the three months ended October 1, 2011 would have been $9.0 million less than reported and revenue for the nine months ended October 1, 2011 would have been $11.1 million less than reported. See Note 3 in our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for an additional description of our adoption of these accounting standards. Revenue by Product Group The following table shows the percentage of product and related maintenance revenue contributed by each of our five product groups, and Services and other for the past five consecutive quarters: Three Months Ended October 1, 2011 July 2, 2011 April 2, 2011 January 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Functional Verification and Design IP 30 % 33 % 28 % 22 % 25 % Digital IC Design 22 % 21 % 24 % 26 % 23 % Custom IC Design 23 % 22 % 20 % 27 % 24 % System Interconnect 9 % 8 % 10 % 8 % 10 % Design for Manufacturing 6 % 6 % 8 % 7 % 8 % Services and other 10 % 10 % 10 % 10 % 10 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % As described in Note 2 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2011, certain of our licensing arrangements allow customers the ability to remix among software products. Additionally, we have arrangements with customers that include a combination of our products with the actual product selection and number of licensed users to be determined at a later date. For these arrangements, we estimate the allocation of the revenue to product groups based upon the expected usage of our products. The actual usage of our products by these customers may differ and, if that proves to be the case, the revenue allocation in the table above would differ. The changes in the percentage of revenue contributed by the Functional Verification and Design IP product group for the quarters presented are generally related to changes in revenue related to our hardware products. Although we believe the methodology of allocating revenue to product groups is reasonable, there can be no assurance that such allocated amounts reflect the amounts that would result if the customer had individually licensed each specific software solution at the onset of the arrangement. 35 Table of Contents Revenue by Geography Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change (In millions) United States $ 123.8 $ 97.6 $ 26.2 $ 360.0 $ 274.9 $ 85.1 Other Americas 6.1 3.7 2.4 19.5 17.2 2.3 Europe, Middle East and Africa 61.6 48.5 13.1 174.4 150.6 23.8 Japan 51.0 47.2 3.8 150.3 130.1 20.2 Asia 50.0 40.9 9.1 137.6 114.1 23.5 Total revenue $ 292.5 $ 237.9 $ 54.6 $ 841.8 $ 686.9 $ 154.9 The increase in revenue across our geographies is primarily because of increased revenue recognized from bookings in prior quarters from our continuing transition to a ratable license mix, an increase in revenue related to the sale and lease of our hardware products and an increase in revenue due to our acquisition of Denali in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. Revenue by Geography as a Percent of Total Revenue Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 United States 42 % 41 % 43 % 40 % Other Americas 2 % 2 % 2 % 2 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 21 % 20 % 21 % 22 % Japan 18 % 20 % 18 % 19 % Asia 17 % 17 % 16 % 17 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % No one customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue during the three and nine months ended October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010. Most of our revenue is transacted in the United States dollar. However, certain revenue transactions are in foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, and we recognize additional revenue in periods when the United States dollar weakens in value against the Japanese yen and reduced revenue in periods when the United States dollar strengthens against the Japanese yen. For an additional description of how changes in foreign exchange rates affect our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, see the discussion under the heading