Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 4 Table of Contents Technical Support and Maintenance Customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide our customers with technical support and maintenance to facilitate their use of our software, hardware and IP solutions. Services We offer a number of services, including services related to methodology, education and hosted design solutions. These services may be sold separately or sold and performed in conjunction with the license, sale or lease of our products. As necessary, certain of our design services engineers are assigned to internal research and development projects associated with our design IP business. As part of our services offerings, we design advanced ICs, develop custom IP and address industry design issues that may not be solved adequately by todays EDA technologies. This enables us to target and accelerate the development of new software technology and products to satisfy current and future design requirements. We offer engineering services to collaborate with our customers in the design of complex ICs and the implementation of key design capabilities, including low power design, IC packaging and board design, functional verification, digital implementation, analog/mixed-signal design and system-level design. The customers for these services primarily consist of semiconductor and systems companies developing products for the consumer, communications, military, aerospace and computing markets. These ICs range from digital SoCs and analog and RF designs to complex mixed-signal ICs. In delivering methodology services, we leverage our experience and knowledge of design techniques, our products, leading practices and different design environments to improve the productivity of our customers engineering teams. Depending on the customers projects and needs, we work with customers using outsourcing, consultative and collaborative offerings. Our education services offerings can be customized and include training programs that are conducted via the internet or in a classroom setting. The content of these offerings ranges from the latest IC design techniques to methodologies for using the most recent features of our EDA products. The primary focus of education services is to accelerate our customers path to productivity in the use of our products. Third-Party Programs and Initiatives In addition to our products, many customers use design tools that are provided by other EDA companies, as well as design IP available from multiple suppliers. We support the use of third-party design products and design IP through our Connections program and through our participation in industry groups such as the Silicon Integration Initiative and Accellera System Initiative. We actively contribute to the development and deployment of industry standards. Product and Maintenance and Services Revenue Revenue, and revenue as a percentage of total revenue, from our product and maintenance and services offerings for the last three fiscal years were as follows: 2017 2016 2015 (In millions, except percentages) Product and maintenance $ 1,814.0 93 % $ 1,683.8 93 % $ 1,578.9 93 % Services 129.0 7 % 132.3 7 % 123.2 7 % Total revenue $ 1,943.0 $ 1,816.1 $ 1,702.1 Our revenue mix is such that approximately 90% of our revenue is recognized over the contract life, and the remainder of the revenue is recognized up front, upon completion of delivery. For an additional description of our product and maintenance and services revenue, see the discussion under Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For our fiscal 2016 results of operations and our financial position as of December 30, 2017 , see Part IV, Item 15, Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. Backlog Our backlog was $ 2.7 billion and $2.5 billion as of December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 , respectively. Our backlog as of December 30, 2017 consisted of the deferred revenue on our balance sheet and the remaining unbilled portion of fully executed arrangements with effective dates commencing no later than December 30, 2017 with revenue to be recognized thereafter, and included a variety of types, generally including, but not limited to: licenses for software products and IP; 5 Table of Contents maintenance on software, hardware and IP products; bookings for the sale and lease of hardware products, including those that have expected delivery dates after December 30, 2017 but before March 31, 2018 ; and the undelivered portion of engineering services contracts. The substantial majority of our backlog consists of customer contracts for which product and maintenance revenue is recognized over the contract life. Historically, we have not experienced significant cancellations of our contracts with customers. For engineering services contracts in backlog, completion dates are occasionally rescheduled, delaying revenue recognition under those contracts beyond the original anticipated completion date. During fiscal 2017 , approximately 70% of our revenue came from arrangements that were in backlog as of December 31, 2016 . We expect $1.4 billion , or approximately 70% of our fiscal 2018 revenue, to come from arrangements that were in backlog as of December 30, 2017 . The actual percentage of revenue coming from backlog during fiscal 2018 may change if our actual business levels in fiscal 2018 are different than our current expectations. Marketing and Sales We generally market our products and provide services to existing and prospective customers through a direct sales force consisting of sales people and applications engineers. Applications engineers provide technical pre-sales and post-sales support for our products. Due to the complexity of many of our products and the system design process, the sales cycle is generally long, requiring three to six months or more. During the sales cycle, our direct sales force generally provides technical presentations, product demonstrations and support for on-site customer evaluation of our solutions. We also promote our products and services through advertising, marketing automation, trade shows, public relations and the internet. We selectively utilize value-added resellers to broaden our reach and reduce cost of sales. Our OrCAD products and certain Allegro products are primarily marketed through these channels. With respect to international sales, we generally market and support our products and services through our subsidiaries. We also use a third-party distributor to license our software products and services to certain customers in Japan. Research and Development Our research and development expense was $804.2 million during fiscal 2017 , $735.3 million during fiscal 2016 and $637.6 million during fiscal 2015 . The primary areas of our research and development include the following: Functional Verification, including Emulation and Prototyping Hardware; Digital IC Design and Signoff; Custom IC Design and Verification; System Interconnect and Analysis; and IP. Our future performance depends on our ability to innovate, commercialize newly developed solutions and enhance and maintain our current products. We must continuously re-engineer our products to solve new or increased physics challenges that arise with each successive process node and address the increase in complexity that is introduced by the resulting much larger designs. We must also keep pace with our customers technical developments, satisfy industry standards and meet our customers increasingly demanding performance, productivity, quality and predictability requirements. Therefore, we expect to continue to invest in research and development. Hardware Manufacturing and Software Distribution Our emulation and prototyping hardware, including all individual PCBs, custom ICs and FPGA-based prototyping products, is manufactured, assembled and tested by subcontractors before delivery to our customers. Software and documentation are primarily distributed to customers by secure electronic delivery or on DVD. 6 Table of Contents Proprietary Technology Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new licenses or renew existing licenses for third-party software and other intellectual property in the future. As part of performing engineering services for customers, our engineering services business uses certain software and other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including that of our competitors. Competition We compete most frequently with Synopsys, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation, which was acquired by Siemens AG in 2017, and with numerous other EDA providers, manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed, acquired or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, electronics design and consulting companies, and other IP companies. These include Altium Limited, Ansys, Inc., CEVA, Inc., Keysight Technologies, Inc. and Zuken Ltd. Certain competitive factors in the engineering services business differ from those of the products businesses. While we compete with other EDA companies in the engineering services business, our principal competitors include independent engineering service businesses. Many of these companies are also customers, and therefore use our product offerings in the delivery of their services or products. Corporate Information We were organized as a Delaware corporation in June 1988. Our headquarters is located at 2655 Seely Avenue, San Jose, California 95134. Our telephone number is (408) 943-1234. We use our website at www.cadence.com to communicate important information about our company, including news releases and financial information. Our website permits investors to subscribe to e-mail notification alerts when we post new material information on our website. We also make available on our investor relations webpage, free of charge, copies of our SEC filings and submissions as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such documents with the SEC. Stockholders may also request copies of these documents by writing to our Corporate Secretary at the address above. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K unless expressly noted. International Operations As of December 30, 2017 , we had 52 sales offices, design centers and research and development facilities, approximately 70% of which are located outside of the United States. We primarily consider customer sales and support requirements, the availability of a skilled workforce, and costs and efficiencies, among other relative benefits, when determining what operations to locate internationally. For additional information relating to our international operations, including revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area, see Note 19 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. For risks related to our international operations, see the discussion under The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact our financial condition and Risks associated with our international operations could seriously harm our financial condition under Item 1A, Risk Factors. Fiscal Year End Our fiscal years are 52- or 53-week periods ending on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015 were each 52-week fiscal years. Employees As of December 30, 2017 , we had approximately 7,200 full-time employees. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table provides information regarding our executive officers as of February 20, 2018 : Name Age Positions and Offices Lip-Bu Tan 58 Chief Executive Officer and Director John M. Wall 47 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Anirudh Devgan 48 President Thomas P. Beckley 60 Senior Vice President, Research and Development James J. Cowie 53 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Surendra Babu Mandava 59 Senior Vice President, Research and Development Neil Zaman 49 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations 7 Table of Contents Our executive officers are appointed by the Board of Directors and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. LIP-BU TAN has served as Chief Executive Officer of Cadence since January 2009. From January 2009 to November 2017, Mr. Tan also served as President of Cadence. Mr. Tan has been a member of the Cadence Board of Directors since February 2004. In 1987, Mr. Tan founded Walden International, an international venture capital firm, and since that time has served as its Chairman. Mr. Tan serves as a director of Aquantia Corp., Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Quantenna Communications, Inc. and Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation. Mr. Tan has a B.S. from Nanyang University in Singapore, an M.S. in nuclear engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an M.B.A. from the University of San Francisco. JOHN M. WALL has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cadence since October 2017. From October 2000 to September 2017, Mr. Wall held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President and Corporate Controller from April 2016 to October 2017, Vice President, Finance and Operations, Worldwide Revenue Accounting and Sales Finance from 2015 to 2016 and Vice President, Finance and Operations, EMEA and Worldwide Revenue Accounting from 2005 to 2015. Mr. Wall has an NCBS from the Institute of Technology, Tralee and is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. ANIRUDH DEVGAN has served as President of Cadence since November 2017. From May 2012 to November 2017, Dr. Devgan held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Executive Vice President, Research and Development from March 2017 to November 2017 and Senior Vice President, Research and Development from November 2013 to March 2017. Prior to joining Cadence, from May 2005 to March 2012, Dr. Devgan served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the Custom Design Business Unit at Magma Design Automation, Inc., an electronic design automation company. Dr. Devgan has a B.Tech. in electrical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, and an M.S. and Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering from Carnegie Mellon University. THOMAS P. BECKLEY has served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since September 2012. From April 2004 to September 2012, Mr. Beckley served as Corporate Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence. Prior to joining Cadence, Mr. Beckley served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Neolinear, Inc., a developer of auto-interactive and automated analog/RF tools and solutions for mixed-signal design that was acquired by Cadence in April 2004. Mr. Beckley has a B.S. in mathematics and physics from Kalamazoo College and an M.B.A. from Vanderbilt University. JAMES J. COWIE has served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Cadence since April 2008 and Secretary of Cadence since May 2008. From August 2000 to March 2008, Mr. Cowie held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President - Business Development, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Mr. Cowie has an A.B. in economics from Duke University and a J.D. from Stanford Law School. SURENDRA BABU MANDAVA has served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since January 2017. Prior to joining Cadence, Mr. Mandava served as Chief Executive Officer of Ineda Systems Inc., a low-power System-on-Chip solutions company, from November 2014 to July 2016, Vice President of Broadcom Corporation, a provider of semiconductor solutions, from November 2010 to December 2012, and President and then as Chief Executive Officer of Beceem Communications Inc., a semiconductor company, from December 2003 until it was acquired by Broadcom in November 2010. Mr. Mandava has a B.Tech. in electronics and communication engineering from the Regional Engineering College, Trichy, and a M.Tech. in electrical engineering and computer science from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur. NEIL ZAMAN has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations of Cadence since September 2015. From October 1999 to September 2015, Mr. Zaman held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President, North America Field Operations. Prior to joining Cadence, Mr. Zaman held positions at Phoenix Technologies Ltd. and IBM Corporation. Mr. Zaman has a B.S. in Finance from California State University, Hayward. 8 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the sections below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business Any periods of uncertainty in the global economy in general, and any potential downturn in the semiconductor and electronics industries in particular, may negatively impact our business and reduce our bookings levels and revenue. Purchases of our products and services are dependent upon the commencement of new design projects by IC manufacturers and electronics systems companies. The IC and electronics systems industries are cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The IC and electronics systems industries have also experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both these industries and their customers products. While spending on EDA products and services has grown in recent years, the current outlook for the semiconductor industry is uncertain and may result in a decrease in spending on EDA products and services, which are a part of our overall SDE offering. While we cannot predict global economic conditions, uncertainty about future political and economic conditions and future decline in consumer spending could negatively impact our customers businesses, reducing the number of new chip designs and their overall research and development spending, including their spending on our products and services, and as a result decrease demand for our products. Decreased bookings for our products and services, customer bankruptcies, consolidation among our customers, or problems or delays with our hardware suppliers or with the supply or delivery of our hardware products could also adversely affect our ability to grow our business or adversely affect our future revenues and financial results. Our future business and financial results are subject to considerable uncertainty that could impact our stock price. If economic conditions deteriorate in the future, or, in particular, if semiconductor or electronics systems industry revenues do not grow or our suppliers of our hardware components and products are subject to problems or delays, our future revenues and financial results could be adversely affected. However, if economic conditions improve for our customers, the positive impact on our revenues and financial results may be deferred due to cautious customer research and development spending and our mix of licenses that yield revenue recognized over time. Customer consolidation could affect our operating results. There has been a trend toward customer consolidation in the semiconductor industry through business combinations, including mergers, asset acquisitions and strategic partnerships. As this trend continues, it could make us dependent on fewer customers who may be able to exert increased pressure on our prices and other contract terms and could increase the portion of our total sales concentration for any single customer. Customer consolidation activity could also reduce the demand for our products and services if such customers streamline research and development or operations, reduce purchases or delay purchasing decisions. These outcomes could negatively impact our financial condition. Our failure to respond quickly to technological developments or customers increasing technological requirements could make our products uncompetitive and obsolete. The industries in which we compete experience rapid technology developments, rapid changes in industry standards and customer requirements, and frequent introductions and improvements of new products. Currently, the industries we serve are experiencing the following trends: changes in the design and manufacturing of ICs, including migration to advanced process nodes and three-dimensional transistors, such as FinFETs, present major challenges to the semiconductor industry, particularly in IC design, design automation, design of manufacturing equipment, and the manufacturing process itself. With migration to advanced process nodes, the industry must adapt to more complex physics and manufacturing challenges such as the need to draw features on silicon that are many times smaller than the wavelength of light used to draw the features via lithography. Models of each components electrical properties and behavior also become more complex as do requisite analysis, design, verification and manufacturing capabilities. Novel design tools and methodologies must be invented and enhanced quickly to remain competitive in the design of electronics in the smallest nanometer ranges; the ability to design SoCs increases the complexity of managing a design that, at the lowest level, is represented by billions of shapes on fabrication masks. In addition, SoCs typically incorporate microprocessors and digital signal processors that are programmed with software, requiring simultaneous design of the IC and the related software embedded on the IC; 9 Table of Contents with the availability of seemingly endless gate capacity, there is an increase in design reuse, or the combining of off-the-shelf design IP with custom logic to create ICs or SoCs. The unavailability of a broad range of high-quality design IP (including our own) that can be reliably incorporated into a customers design with our software products and services could lead to reduced demand for our products and services; increased technological capability of the FPGA, which is a programmable logic chip, creates an alternative to IC implementation for some electronics companies. This could reduce demand for our IC implementation products and services; a growing number of low-cost engineering services businesses could reduce the need for some IC companies to invest in EDA products; and adoption of cloud computing technologies with accompanying new business models for an increasing number of software categories. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these trends, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become obsolete. To compete successfully, we must develop, acquire or license new products and improve our existing products and processes on a schedule that keeps pace with technological developments and the requirements for products addressing a broad spectrum of designers and designer expertise in our industries. We must provide frequent and relevant updates to our software products in order to provide substantial benefit to the customer throughout the license periods because of the rapid changes in our customers industries. The market must also accept our new and improved products. Our hardware platforms must be enhanced periodically to reduce the likelihood that a competitor surpasses the capabilities we offer. Our introduction of new products could reduce the demand and revenue of our older products or affect their pricing. We must also be able to support a range of changing computer software, hardware platforms and customer preferences. A rapid transition to different business models associated with cloud computing technologies could result in reduced revenue. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in keeping pace with all, or any, of the customer trends. Competitive pressures may require us to reduce our pricing, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The highly competitive markets in which we do business can put pressure on us to reduce the prices of our software, emulation and prototyping hardware and IP. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products in an effort to recapture or gain market share or to sell other software or hardware products, we may then need to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully. Any such changes would be likely to reduce our profit margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Any substantial changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for our products. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the number of sales or with lower spending, then the reduced revenues resulting from lower prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our System Design Enablement strategy requires the development or acquisition of products and expertise in new areas of technology. Our inability to develop or acquire these capabilities could impede our ability to address the technical requirements in technology segments which are expected to contribute to our growth. Our SDE strategy is meant to increase our business among electronic systems companies, which are now designing their own ICs. SDE is also meant to increase our business among semiconductor companies, which are increasing their contribution to the end products into which their ICs are incorporated. Part of this strategy involves addressing the needs of new categories of electronic systems, including machine learning, augmented reality, virtual reality, internet-of-things and autonomous vehicle sub-systems, where increased investment is expected by our customers. Each of these categories requires technologies and expertise that are application-specific. If we are unable to develop or acquire the application-specific technologies and expertise necessary to address the requirements of these categories, it could impede our ability to expand our business in these categories and ultimately affect our future growth. We have experienced varied operating results, and our operating results for any particular fiscal period are affected by the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our emulation and prototyping hardware and IP products. Various factors affect our operating results, and some of them are not within our control. Our operating results for any period are affected by the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our emulation and prototyping hardware and IP products. In addition, we have recorded net losses in the past and may record net losses in the future. A substantial portion of the product revenue related to our hardware business and some of our IP offerings is recognized upon delivery, and our forecasted revenue results are based, in part, on our expectations of hardware and IP to be delivered in a particular quarter. Therefore, changes in hardware and IP bookings or deliveries relative to expectations will have a more immediate impact on our revenue than changes in software or services bookings, for which revenue is generally recognized over time. 10 Table of Contents In recent years, we made significant investments to expand our IP offerings through, among other things, research and development and acquisitions. As we continue to expand our IP offerings, a portion of the revenue related to our IP bookings will be deferred until we complete and deliver the licensed IP to our customers. As a result, costs related to the research and development of the IP may be incurred prior to the recognition of the related revenue. Revenue related to our hardware and IP products is inherently difficult to predict because sales of our hardware and IP products depend on the commencement of new projects for the design and development of complex ICs and systems by our customers, our customers willingness to expend capital to deploy our hardware or IP products in those projects and the availability of our hardware or IP products for delivery. Therefore, our hardware or IP sales may be delayed or may decrease if our customers delay or cancel projects because their spending is constrained or if there are problems or delays with the supply or delivery of our hardware or IP products or our hardware suppliers. Moreover, the hardware and IP markets are highly competitive, and our customers may choose to purchase a competitors hardware or IP product based on cost, performance or other factors. These factors may result in lower revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. A substantial proportion of our licenses yield revenue recognized over time, which may make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue in future fiscal periods. We plan our operating expenses based on forecasted revenue, expected business needs and other factors. These expenses and the effect of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. Bookings and the related revenue are harder to forecast in a difficult economic environment. If we experience a shortfall in bookings, our operating results could differ from our expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce our expenses in response to short-term business changes. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see Critical Accounting Estimates under Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that may lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Historical results of operations should not be viewed as reliable indicators of our future performance. If our revenue, operating results or business outlook for future periods fall short of the levels expected by us, securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in research and development efforts for new and existing products and technologies and technical sales support. Such investments may affect our operating results, and, if the return on these investments is lower or develops more slowly than we expect, our revenue and operating results may suffer. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in research and development for new and existing products, technologies and services in response to our customers increasing technological requirements. Such investments may be in related areas, such as technical sales support. These investments may involve significant time, risks and uncertainties, including the risk that the expenses associated with these investments may affect our margins and operating results and that such investments may not generate sufficient revenues to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments. We believe that we must continue to invest a significant amount of time and resources in our research and development efforts and technical sales support to maintain and improve our competitive position. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, or if customers reduce or slow the need to upgrade or enhance their EDA products and design flows, our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses and may not realize the expected benefits of these acquisitions. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses in order to expand our product offerings. Our future revenue growth and expansion of our business is dependent on our successful integration of our acquisitions. We may incur significant costs in connection with potential transactions, including acquisitions that are not consummated. Potential and completed acquisitions involve a number of risks. If any of the following acquisition-related risks occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely impacted: the failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; overlapping customers and product sets that impact our ability to maintain revenue at historical rates; the failure to understand, compete and operate effectively in markets where we have limited experience; the failure to integrate and manage acquired products and businesses effectively; the failure to integrate and retain key employees of the acquired company or business; difficulties in combining previously separate companies or businesses into a single unit; the substantial diversion of managements attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating these transactions and integrating an acquired company or business; 11 Table of Contents the discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of unanticipated liabilities assumed from the acquired company, business or assets, such that we cannot realize the anticipated value of the acquisition; difficulties related to integrating the products of an acquired company or business in, for example, distribution, engineering, licensing models or customer support areas; unanticipated costs; or unwillingness of customers of the acquired business to continue licensing or buying products from us following the acquisition. In a number of our completed acquisitions, we have agreed to make future payments, either in the form of employee retention bonuses or contingent purchase price payments, based on the achievement of specified milestones. The performance goals pursuant to which these future payments may be made generally relate to the achievement by the acquired company or business, or by the employees who joined us with the acquired company or business, of certain specified bookings, revenue, run rate, product proliferation, product development or employee retention goals during a specified period following completion of the applicable acquisition. The specific performance goal levels and amounts and timing of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments vary with each acquisition. We may continue to use contingent purchase price payments in connection with acquisitions in the future and while we expect to derive value from an acquisition in excess of such contingent payment obligations, we may be required to make certain contingent payments without deriving the anticipated value. Future acquisitions may involve issuances of stock as full or partial payment of the purchase price for the acquired company or business, grants of restricted stock, restricted stock units or stock options to employees of the acquired companies or businesses (which may be dilutive to existing stockholders), expenditure of substantial cash resources or the incurrence of a material amount of debt. These arrangements may impact our liquidity, financial position and results of operations or increase dilution of our stockholders equity interests in the company. The competition in our industries is substantial, and we may not be able to continue to successfully compete in our industries. The EDA industry, the commercial electronics engineering services industry and the IP industry are highly competitive. If we fail to compete successfully in these industries, it could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. To compete in these industries, we must identify and develop or acquire innovative and cost-competitive EDA products, integrate them into platforms and market them in a timely manner. We may not be able to compete successfully in these industries. Factors that could affect our ability to compete successfully include: the development by others of competitive EDA products or platforms and engineering services, possibly resulting in a shift of customer preferences away from our products and services and significantly decreased revenue; aggressive pricing competition by some of our competitors may cause us to lose our competitive position, which could result in lower revenues or profitability and could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our software or emulation and prototyping hardware systems products; the challenges of advanced node design may lead some customers to work with more mature, less risky manufacturing processes that may reduce their need to upgrade or enhance their EDA products and design flows; the challenges of developing (or acquiring externally developed) technology solutions, including hardware and IP offerings, that are adequate and competitive in meeting the rapidly evolving requirements of next-generation design challenges; intense competition to attract acquisition targets, possibly making it more difficult for us to acquire companies or technologies at an acceptable price, or at all; the low cost of entry in EDA; the combination of our EDA competitors or collaboration among many EDA companies to deliver more comprehensive offerings than they could individually; and decisions by electronics manufacturers to perform engineering services or IP development internally, rather than purchase these services from outside vendors due to budget constraints or excess engineering capacity. We compete most frequently with Synopsys, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation, which was acquired by Siemens AG in 2017, and also with numerous other EDA providers, manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed, acquired or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, electronics design and consulting companies, and other IP companies.These include Altium Limited, Ansys, Inc., CEVA, Inc., Keysight Technologies, Inc. and Zuken Ltd. 12 Table of Contents The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact our revenue, expenses, cash flows and financial condition. We have significant operations outside the United States. Our revenue from international operations as a percentage of total revenue was approximately 58% during fiscal 2017 and 54% during both fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015. We expect that revenue from our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. We also transact business in various foreign currencies, although the majority of our revenue contracts worldwide are denominated in U.S. dollars. Volatility of currencies in countries where we conduct business, most notably the U.S. dollar, Chinese renminbi, Japanese yen, European Union euro, British pound and Indian rupee have had and may in the future have an effect on our revenue or operating results. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of other countries where we conduct business could seriously affect our business, operating results or financial condition. For example, when a foreign currency declines in value relative to the U.S. dollar, it takes more of the foreign currency to purchase the same amount of U.S. dollars than before the change. If we price our products and services in the foreign currency, we receive fewer U.S. dollars than we did before the change. If we price our products and services in U.S. dollars, the decrease in value of the local currency results in an increase in the price for our products and services compared to those products of our competitors that are priced in local currency. This could result in our prices being uncompetitive in markets where business is transacted in the local currency. On the other hand, when a foreign currency increases in value relative to the U.S. dollar, it takes more U.S. dollars to purchase the same amount of the foreign currency. As we use the foreign currency to fund payroll costs and other operating expenses in our international operations, this results in an increase in operating expenses. Approximately 30% of our total costs and expenses are transacted in foreign currencies. Our attempts to reduce the effect of foreign currency fluctuations may be unsuccessful, and significant exchange rate movements may adversely impact our results of operations as expressed in U.S. dollars. Our operating results could be adversely affected by an increase in our effective tax rate as a result of tax law changes, outcomes of current or future tax examinations, or by material differences between our forecasted and actual effective tax rates. Our operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions, with a significant amount of our foreign earnings generated by our subsidiaries organized in Ireland and Hungary. Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the following: changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws in the United States, Ireland, Hungary, the United Kingdom, China, Republic of Korea, Japan, India or other international locations where we have operations; earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the United States federal and state statutory tax rates; an increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; changes in tax benefits from stock-based compensation; changes in the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets; changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information that results in a recognition, derecognition or change in measurement of a tax position taken in a prior period; increases to interest or penalty expenses classified in the financial statements as income taxes; new accounting standards or interpretations of such standards; or results of examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), state, and foreign tax or other governmental authorities. The IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns and other non-income tax returns, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth or franchise, property, goods and services, consumption, import, stamp, and excise taxes, in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. The calculation of our provision for income taxes and our accruals for other taxes requires us to use significant judgment and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations. In determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, we regularly assess the potential settlement outcomes resulting from income tax examinations. However, the final outcome of tax examinations, including the total amount payable or the timing of any such payments upon resolution of these issues, cannot be estimated with certainty. In addition, we cannot be certain that such amount will not be materially different from the amount that is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals for other taxes. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes, penalties or interest as a result of a current or a future examination, we may be required to record charges to operations in future periods that could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows in the applicable period or periods. 13 Table of Contents Forecasts of our annual effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of estimating our annual income or loss, the mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as benefits from available deferred tax assets, the impact of various accounting rules, our interpretations of changes in tax laws and results of tax audits. Forecasts of our annual effective tax rate do not include the anticipation of future tax law changes. In addition, we account for certain tax benefits from stock-based compensation in the period the stock compensation is settled, which may cause increased variability in our quarterly effective tax rates. If there were a material difference between forecasted and actual tax rates, it could have a material impact on our results of operations. Tax laws, regulations, and compliance practices are evolving and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) was enacted in December 2017, and significantly affected U.S. tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations. The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously required by U.S. tax law. As such, the application of certain accounting guidance is currently evolving. Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for certain provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. As a result, we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements. As additional interpretative guidance is issued by the applicable authorities, we will continue our analysis on the application of the Tax Act and will revise our current estimates in future periods. The revisions to our current estimates could materially affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial position. For further discussion regarding our income taxes, please refer to Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the heading New Accounting Standards and Note 6 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions are evolving and may be subject to significant changes due to economic, political, and other conditions. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. Governments are increasingly focused on ways to increase tax revenues, particularly from multinational corporations, which may lead to an increase in audit activity and harsher positions taken by tax authorities. We are currently subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions, including Germany, India, Israel and certain states within the United States, and these jurisdictions may assess additional tax liabilities against us. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), an international association of 34 countries, including the United States, released the final reports from its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Action Plans, which aim to standardize and modernize global tax policies. The BEPS Action Plans propose revisions to numerous tax rules, including country-by-country reporting, permanent establishment, hybrid entities and instruments, transfer pricing, and tax treaties. The BEPS Action Plans have been or are being enacted by countries where we have operations. The European Commission (EC) has conducted investigations in multiple countries focusing on whether local country tax rulings provide preferential tax treatment that violates European Union state aid rules and concluded that certain countries, including Ireland, have provided illegal state aid in certain cases. The EC and OECD have also been evaluating new rules on the taxation of the digital economy companies. In addition, Taiwan, Italy and the United Kingdom have recently introduced new rulings or proposals to tax digital transactions. These developments in tax laws and regulations, and compliance with these rules, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. Our stock price has been subject to fluctuations and may continue to be subject to fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and may fluctuate or decline in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: quarterly or annual operating or financial results or forecasts that fail to meet or are inconsistent with earlier projections or the expectations of our securities analysts or investors; changes in our forecasted bookings, revenue, earnings or operating cash flow estimates; an increase in our debt or other liabilities; market conditions in the IC, electronics systems and semiconductor industries; announcements of a restructuring plan; changes in management; repurchases of shares of our common stock or changes to plans to repurchase shares of our common stock; a gain or loss of a significant customer or market segment share; litigation; and 14 Table of Contents announcements of new products or acquisitions of new technologies by us, our competitors or our customers. In addition, equity markets in general, and the equities of technology companies in particular, have experienced and may experience in the future, extreme price and volume fluctuations due to, among other factors, the actions of market participants or other actions outside of our control. Such price and volume fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. Our future revenue is dependent in part upon our installed customer base continuing to license or buy products and purchase services. Our installed customer base has traditionally generated additional new license, service and maintenance revenues. In future periods, customers may not necessarily license or buy additional products or contract for additional services or maintenance. Our customers, many of which are large semiconductor and systems companies, often have significant bargaining power in negotiations with us. Customer consolidation can reduce the total level of purchases of our software, hardware, IP and services, and in some cases, increase customers bargaining power in negotiations with their suppliers, including us. We could suffer serious harm to our business because of the infringement of our intellectual property rights by third parties or because of our infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. There are numerous patents relating to our business and ecosystem. New patents are being issued at a rapid rate and are owned by EDA companies as well as entities and individuals outside the EDA industry, including parties whose income is primarily derived from infringement-related licensing and litigation. It is not always practicable to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes the patent rights of others. As a result, from time to time, we may be compelled to respond to or prosecute intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights or defend a customers rights. Intellectual property infringement claims, including contractual defense reimbursement obligations related to third-party claims against our customers, regardless of merit, could consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation or cause product shipment delays, all of which could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. The risk of infringement and related indemnification claims associated with design IP products that are incorporated into a customer product broadly used by consumers may be higher than the risk associated with our software products. In settling these claims, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not have terms favorable to us. Being compelled to enter into a license agreement with unfavorable terms could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Any potential intellectual property litigation could compel us to do one or more of the following: pay damages (including the potential for treble damages), license fees or royalties (including royalties for past periods) to the party claiming infringement; stop licensing products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property; obtain a license from the owner of the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or redesign the challenged technology, which could be time consuming and costly, or impossible. If we were compelled to take any of these actions, our business or operating results may suffer. 15 Table of Contents If our security measures are breached, and an unauthorized party obtains access to customer data, financial data or assets or our proprietary business information, our information systems may be perceived as being unsecure, which could harm our business and reputation. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of our proprietary information and that of our customers. We have offices throughout the world, including key research and development facilities outside of the United States. Our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber attacks by unauthorized third parties (which may include nation-states and individuals sponsored by them) or breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions, which could result in unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information and could significantly interfere with our business operations. Computer hackers may attempt to gain unauthorized access through a variety of methods (such as the use of viruses, malware, ransomware, phishing, denial of service attacks and other cyber attacks) and corrupt the processes of the products and services that we provide. We may also be a target of malicious attackers who attempt to gain access to our network or data centers or those of our customers or end users; steal proprietary information related to our business, products, services or infrastructure; steal financial data or assets or interrupt our systems and services or those of our customers or others. Breaches of our security measures could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, loss of financial assets, litigation and potential liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage information systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, if we select a vendor that uses cyber storage of information as part of their service or product offerings, despite our attempts to validate the security of such services, our proprietary information may be misappropriated by third parties. In the event of an actual or perceived breach of our security, or the security of one of our vendors, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could suffer damage to our reputation or our business, or lose existing customers and our ability to obtain new customers, or suffer harm to our financial condition. Risks associated with our international operations could adversely impact our financial condition. A significant amount of our revenue is derived from our international operations, and we have offices throughout the world, including key research and development facilities outside of the United States. Our international operations may be subject to a number of risks, including: shifts in political, trade or other policies resulting from the results of certain elections or votes, such as changes in policies pursued by the United States, and the United Kingdoms withdrawal from the European Union; the adoption or expansion of government trade restrictions, including tariffs and other trade barriers; limitations on repatriation of earnings; limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies; reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; performance of national economies; longer collection periods for receivables and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in managing foreign operations; political and economic instability; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; inability to continue to offer competitive compensation in certain growing regions; differing employment practices and labor issues; United States and other governments licensing requirements for exports, which may lengthen the sales cycle or restrict or prohibit the sale or licensing of certain products; and variations in costs or expenses associated with our international operations, including as a result of changes in foreign tax laws or devaluation of the U.S. dollar relative to other foreign currencies. Some of our international research and development and other facilities are in parts of the world where there may be a greater risk of business interruption as a result of political instability, terrorist acts or military conflicts than businesses located domestically. Furthermore, this potential harm is exacerbated because damage to or disruptions at our international research and development facilities could have a more significant adverse effect on our ability to develop new or improve existing products than other businesses that may only have sales offices or other less critical operations abroad. We are not insured for losses or interruptions caused by acts of war. Furthermore, our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Activities that interfere with our international connectivity or operations, such as cyber hacking, the introduction of a virus into our computer systems, natural disasters, civil unrest or terrorism, could significantly interfere with our business operations. In addition, internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not prevent our employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the laws and regulations applicable to our worldwide operations. 16 Table of Contents We depend upon our management team and key employees, and our failure to attract, train, motivate and retain management and key employees may make us less competitive and therefore harm our results of operations. Our business depends upon the continued services, efforts and abilities of our senior management and other key employees. Competition for highly skilled executive officers and employees can be intense, particularly in geographic areas recognized as high technology centers such as the Silicon Valley area, where our principal offices are located, and in other locations where we maintain facilities. In addition, competition for qualified personnel, including software engineers, in the EDA, commercial electronics engineering services and IP industries has intensified. Further, increased uncertainty regarding social, political and immigration policies in the United States and abroad may make it difficult to recruit employees with adequate experience. We may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring and departure of executive officers, and as a result, we may experience disruption to our business that may harm our operating results and our relationships with our employees, customers and suppliers may be adversely affected. To attract, retain and motivate individuals with the requisite expertise, we may be required to grant large numbers of stock options or other stock-based incentive awards, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders and increase compensation expense, and pay significant base salaries and cash bonuses, which could harm our operating results. The high cost of training new employees, not fully utilizing these employees, or losing trained employees to competing employers could also reduce our operating margins and harm our business or operating results. In addition, applicable rules and regulations require stockholder approval for new equity compensation plans and significant amendments to existing equity compensation plans (including increases in shares available for issuance under such plans), and prohibit publicly-traded companies from giving a proxy to vote on equity compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions. These rules and regulations could make it more difficult for us to grant equity compensation to employees in the future. To the extent that these regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant equity compensation to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We rely on our proprietary technology, as well as software and other intellectual property rights licensed to us by third parties, and we cannot assure you that the precautions taken to protect our rights will be adequate or that we will continue to be able to adequately secure such intellectual property rights from third parties. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Despite the precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, third parties have tried in the past, and may try in the future, to challenge, invalidate or circumvent these safeguards. Our patents and other intellectual property rights may not provide us with sufficient competitive advantages. Patents may not be issued on any of our pending applications and our issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent as applicable law protects these rights in the United States. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights, or deter or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. Many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new or renew existing licenses for such software and other intellectual property in the future. Our engineering services business holds licenses to certain software and other intellectual property owned by third parties, including that of our competitors. Our failure to obtain software, other intellectual property licenses or other intellectual property rights that are necessary or helpful for our business on favorable terms, or our need to engage in litigation over these licenses or rights, could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. 17 Table of Contents We have substantial cash requirements in the United States, but a significant portion of our cash is held and generated outside of the United States, and if our cash available in the United States and the cash available under our revolving credit facility are insufficient to meet our operating expenses and debt repayment obligations in the United States, then we may be required to raise cash in ways that could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. We have significant operations outside the United States. As of December 30, 2017 , approximately 80% of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balance was held by subsidiaries outside the United States, with the remainder of the balance held by us or our subsidiaries in the United States. We believe that the combination of our U.S. cash, cash equivalents, future U.S. operating cash flows, cash available under our revolving credit facility and other cash that may be accessible to us on attractive terms are sufficient to meet our ongoing U.S. operating expenses and debt repayment obligations. While the Tax Act may have reduced the tax impact of repatriation of foreign earnings, there are still administrative processes associated with repatriation of foreign earnings that could affect the timing of returning cash to the U.S. from non-U.S. jurisdictions. Accordingly, if our U.S. cash were insufficient to meet our future funding obligations in the United States, we could be required to seek funding sources on less attractive terms, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and the market price of our common stock. Litigation could adversely affect our financial condition or operations. We currently are, and in the future may be, involved in various disputes and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, including customer indemnification, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contracts, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. For information regarding the litigation matters in which we are currently engaged, please refer to the discussion under Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Note 11 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. We cannot provide any assurances that the final outcome of these lawsuits or any other proceedings that may arise in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Litigation can be time consuming and expensive and could divert managements time and attention from our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Errors or defects in our products and services could expose us to liability and harm our business. Our customers use our products and services in designing and developing products that involve a high degree of technological complexity, each of which has its own specifications. Because of the complexity of the systems and products with which we work, some of our products and designs can be adequately tested only when put to full use in the marketplace. As a result, our customers or their end users may discover errors or defects in our software or the systems we design, or the products or systems incorporating our design and intellectual property may not operate as expected. Errors or defects could result in: loss of customers; loss of market share; damage to our reputation; failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; diversion of development resources to resolve the problem; loss of or delay in revenue or payments; increased service costs; and liability for damages. Our operating results and revenue could be adversely affected by customer payment delays, customer bankruptcies and defaults or modifications of licenses. Occasionally, our customers file for bankruptcy or request to modify license terms. If our customers experience adversity in their business, they may delay or default on their payment obligations to us, file for bankruptcy or modify or cancel plans to license our products. For instance, if our customers are not successful in generating sufficient cash or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us, although these obligations are generally not cancelable. Our customers inability to fulfill payment obligations, in turn, may adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. Additionally, our customers have, in the past, sought, and may, in the future, seek, to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments. Payment defaults by our customers or significant reductions in existing contractual commitments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 18 Table of Contents The long sales cycle of our products and services may cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly. Generally, we have a long sales cycle that can extend up to six months or longer. The complexity and expense associated with our products and services generally require a lengthy customer education, evaluation and approval process. Consequently, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management effort and expense to develop potential relationships that do not result in agreements or revenue and may prevent us from pursuing other opportunities. In addition, sales of our products and services have been and may in the future be delayed if customers delay approval or commencement of projects because of: the timing of customers competitive evaluation processes; or customers budgetary constraints and budget cycles. Long sales cycles for hardware products subject us to a number of significant risks over which we have limited control, including insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory, variations in inventory valuation and fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles, and we may incur significant costs to adjust our accounting systems and processes to comply with significant changes. United States generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. We are also subject to evolving rules and regulations of the countries in which we do business. Changes to accounting standards may result in different accounting principles under U.S. GAAP that could have a significant effect on our reported financial results for us in areas including, but not limited to, principles for recognizing revenue and accounting for leases. For information regarding new accounting standards, please refer to Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the heading New Accounting Standards. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future need to significantly change our customer contracts, accounting systems and processes when we adopt future or proposed changes in accounting principles noted above. The cost and effect of these changes may negatively impact our results of operations during the periods of transition. Our restructuring plans may not result in the benefits we have anticipated, possibly having a negative effect on our future operating results. In recent fiscal years, we have initiated restructuring plans in an effort to reallocate or decrease costs by reducing our workforce and by consolidating facilities. We incur substantial costs to implement restructuring plans, and our restructuring activities may subject us to litigation risks and expenses. Our past restructuring plans do not provide any assurance that additional restructuring plans will not be required or implemented in the future. In addition, our restructuring plans may have other consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce, a negative effect on employee morale and productivity or our ability to attract highly skilled employees. Our competitors may also use our restructuring plans to seek to gain a competitive advantage over us. As a result, our restructuring plans may affect our revenue and other operating results in the future. We depend on sole suppliers for certain hardware components and contract manufacturers for production of our emulation and prototyping hardware products, making us vulnerable to supply disruption and price fluctuation. We depend on sole suppliers for certain hardware components and contract manufacturers for production of our emulation and prototyping hardware products. Our reliance on sole suppliers and contract manufacturers could result in product delivery problems and delays and reduced control over product pricing and quality. Though we prefer to have multiple sources to procure certain key components, in some cases it is not practical or feasible to do so. We may suffer a disruption in the supply of certain hardware components if we are unable to purchase sufficient components on a timely basis or at all for any reason. Any supply or manufacturing disruption, including delay in delivery of components by our suppliers or products by our manufacturers, or the bankruptcy or shutdown of our suppliers or manufacturers, could delay our production process and prevent us from delivering completed hardware products to customers or from supplying new evaluation units to customers, which could have a negative impact on our revenue and operating results. Failure to obtain export licenses could harm our business by rendering us unable to ship products and transfer our technology outside of the United States. We must comply with regulations of the United States and of certain other countries in shipping our products and transferring our technology outside the United States and to foreign nationals. Any significant future difficulty in complying with these regulations could harm our business, operating results or financial condition. 19 Table of Contents If we become subject to unfair hiring claims, we could be prevented from hiring needed employees, incur liability for damages and incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. When companies in our industry lose employees to competitors, they frequently claim that these competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that the employment of these persons would involve the disclosure or use of trade secrets. These claims could prevent us from hiring employees or cause us to incur liability for damages. We could also incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against these claims, regardless of their merits. Defending ourselves from these claims could also divert the attention of our management away from our operations. Anti-takeover defenses in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions under Delaware law could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that apply to us could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. For example: Our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue, at any time and without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as it may determine. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. However, the rights of holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with a person owning 15% or more of its voting stock, or who is affiliated with the corporation and owned 15% or more of its voting stock at any time within three years prior to the proposed business combination, for a period of three years from the date the person became a 15% owner, unless specified conditions are met. All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and could allow our Board of Directors to resist, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if a proposed transaction were favored by a majority of our independent stockholders. The investment of our cash is subject to risks that may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. Our investments include various money market funds and may include other investments as well. Weakened financial markets have at times adversely impacted the general credit, liquidity, market prices and interest rates for these and other types of investments. Additionally, changes in monetary policy by the Federal Open Market Committee or other relevant regulators and concerns about the rising U.S. government debt level may cause a decrease in the purchasing power of the U.S. dollar and adversely affect our investment portfolio. The financial market and monetary risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that impact compliance costs and risks of noncompliance. We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulatory organizations, including the SEC, Nasdaq, and the FASB. These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity, and many new requirements have been created in response to laws enacted by the U.S. and foreign governments, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. The increase in costs to comply with such evolving rules and regulations, as well as any risk of noncompliance, could adversely impact us. Conflict minerals regulations may cause us to continue to incur additional expenses and may adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. In August 2012, the SEC adopted new rules establishing disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of certain minerals referred to as conflict minerals in products. These rules require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such minerals in our products originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with these rules, including costs associated with conducting due diligence on our supply chain and fulfilling our reporting requirements, and we may incur costs related to changes to our products, processes or sources of supply. In addition, these rules could affect the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our emulation and prototyping hardware products and IP boards (the Covered Products), and thus impact our ability to source, at competitive prices, certain materials that are used in the Covered Products. Finally, our customers may prefer to purchase products from vendors who claim that all minerals in their products are conflict-free, and our revenues may be harmed or we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify that our Covered Products are conflict-free. 20 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the risk of earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations and certain of our distribution facilities, is located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known to experience seismic activity. If significant seismic activity were to occur, our operations may be interrupted, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our other offices in the United States and in other countries around the world may be adversely impacted by natural disasters. If a natural disaster occurs at or near any of our offices, our operations may be interrupted, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. If a natural disaster impacts a significant number of our customers, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Risks Related to Our Securities and Indebtedness Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness. As of December 30, 2017 , we had total outstanding indebtedness of $729.4 million . We also had the ability to borrow an additional $265.0 million under our revolving credit facility, with the right to request increased capacity up to an additional $250.0 million upon the receipt of lender commitments, for total maximum borrowings of $600.0 million under our revolving credit facility. Subject to the limits contained in the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility, the indenture that governs the 4.375% Senior Notes due 2024 (the 2024 Notes) and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, share repurchases or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to service our debt as described above; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; utilizing large portions of our U.S. cash to service our debt obligations because those payments are made in the United States, which may require us to repatriate cash from outside the United States; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, are at variable rates of interest; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors and competitors that have greater access to capital resources; limiting our interest deductions for US income tax purposes; and increasing our cost of borrowing. At the option of the holders of our outstanding notes, we may, under certain circumstances, be required to repurchase such notes. Under the terms of our 2024 Notes, we may be required to repurchase for cash such notes prior to their maturity in connection with the occurrence of certain significant corporate events. Specifically, we are required to offer to repurchase such notes upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indenture related to such notes), such as a change of control accompanied by certain downgrades in the credit ratings of such notes. The repayment obligations under such notes may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company. If we were required to pay the 2024 Notes prior to their scheduled maturity, it could have a significant negative impact on our cash and liquidity and could impact our ability to invest financial resources in other strategic initiatives. The terms of the agreements governing our revolving credit facility and 2019 Term Loan and the indenture governing our 2024 Notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The agreements governing our revolving credit facility and 2019 Term Loan contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; 21 Table of Contents prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; issue certain preferred stock or similar equity securities; make certain investments; incur liens; incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our revolving credit facility and 2019 Term Loan require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet them. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under the agreements governing our revolving credit facility and 2019 Term Loan could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility would permit the lenders under our revolving credit facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. In the event our lenders or note holders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in how we conduct our business; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The indenture governing our 2024 Notes also contains certain restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to incur liens and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our strategy. In addition, our financial results, our substantial indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of our financing. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The agreements governing our revolving credit facility and 2019 Term Loan restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. In addition, we conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, none of which are currently guarantors of our indebtedness. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they become guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. While the agreements governing our revolving credit facility and 2019 Term Loan limit the ability of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. 22 Table of Contents Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of our debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to loan money and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines that permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us, potentially hindering our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and increasing our costs of registration. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. We and our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our revolving credit facility and 2019 Term Loan contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the 2024 Notes, then subject to any collateral arrangements we may enter into, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of our company. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility and 2019 Term Loan are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. Assuming all loans were fully drawn, we were to fully exercise our right to increase borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility and we made no prepayments on our 2019 Term Loan, each quarter point change in interest rates would result in a $2.3 million change in annual interest expense on our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility and 2019 Term Loan. In the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. Various factors could increase our future borrowing costs or reduce our access to capital, including a lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our 2024 Notes by rating agencies. We may in the future seek additional financing for a variety of reasons, and our future borrowing costs and access to capital could be affected by factors including the condition of the debt and equity markets, the condition of the economy generally, prevailing interest rates, our level of indebtedness and our business and financial condition. In addition, the 2024 Notes currently have an investment grade rating, and any rating assigned could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agencys judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the 2024 Notes. Any future lowering of the ratings of the 2024 Notes likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties We own land and buildings at our headquarters located in San Jose, California. We also own buildings in India. As of December 30, 2017 , the total square footage of our owned buildings was approximately 1,010,000 . We lease additional facilities in the United States and various other countries. We may sublease certain of these facilities where space is not fully utilized. We believe that these facilities are adequate for our current needs and that suitable additional or substitute space will be available as needed to accommodate any expansion of our operations. 23 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we are involved in various disputes and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, indemnification obligations, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contracts, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. At least quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assesses its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount or the range of loss can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based on our judgments using the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation matters and may revise estimates. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 24 Table of Contents PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Common Stock Market Price Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol CDNS. To date, we have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and currently do not have plans to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As described in Note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, our revolving credit facility restricts certain payments, including dividends and share repurchases. As of February 3, 2018 , we had 550 registered stockholders and 46,483 beneficial owners of our common stock. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our common stock for each fiscal quarter in the two-year period ended December 30, 2017 : 2017 High Low Fourth Quarter $ 45.64 $ 39.60 Third Quarter 39.49 32.85 Second Quarter 35.69 30.81 First Quarter 32.19 25.24 2016 Fourth Quarter $ 28.00 $ 24.15 Third Quarter 26.24 23.83 Second Quarter 25.49 22.79 First Quarter 23.75 18.32 25 Table of Contents Stockholder Return Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative 5-year total stockholder return on our common stock relative to the cumulative total return of the Nasdaq Composite Index, the S&P 400 Information Technology Index, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Information Technology Index. The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and in each index on December 29, 2012 (including reinvestment of dividends) was $100 and tracks it each year thereafter on the last day of our fiscal year through December 30, 2017 and, for each index, on the last day of the calendar year. Cadence was added to the S&P 500 Index on September 18, 2017 and was previously part of the S&P 400 Information Technology Index. Cadence is, therefore, providing information on both indices and the S&P Information Technology Index, and will discontinue presenting the S&P 400 Information Technology Index in future stock performance graphs. 12/29/2012 12/28/2013 1/3/2015 1/2/2016 12/31/2016 12/30/2017 Cadence Design Systems, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 103.65 $ 140.10 $ 154.84 $ 187.65 $ 311.16 Nasdaq Composite 100.00 141.63 162.09 173.33 187.19 242.29 S&P 500 100.00 132.39 150.51 152.59 170.84 208.14 S&P Information Technology 100.00 128.43 154.26 163.40 186.03 258.28 S&P 400 Information Technology 100.00 135.54 138.00 143.58 166.73 207.62 The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 26 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities In January 2017, Cadences Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of shares of Cadence common stock with a value of up to $525.0 million in the aggregate. The actual timing and amount of repurchases are subject to business and market conditions, corporate and regulatory requirements, acquisition opportunities and other factors. As of December 30, 2017 , approximately $425 million remained available under this authorization. The following table presents repurchases made under our current authorization and shares surrendered by employees to satisfy income tax withholding obligations during the three months ended December 30, 2017 : Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid Per Share (2) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plan or Program Maximum Dollar Value of Shares Authorized for Repurchase Under Publicly Announced Plan or Program (1) (In millions) October 1, 2017 November 4, 2017 476,890 $ 41.66 452,793 $ 456.1 November 5, 2017 December 2, 2017 368,293 $ 44.48 350,145 $ 440.6 December 3, 2017 December 30, 2017 378,759 $ 43.18 360,988 $ 425.0 Total 1,223,942 $ 42.98 1,163,926 _________________ (1) Shares purchased that were not part of our publicly announced repurchase programs represent employee surrender of shares of restricted stock to satisfy employee income tax withholding obligations due upon vesting, and do not reduce the dollar value that may yet be purchased under our publicly announced repurchase programs. (2) The weighted average price paid per share of common stock does not include the cost of commissions. 27 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data-Unaudited The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and the information contained in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. The notes below the table are provided for comparability purposes due to adoptions of accounting pronouncements or to describe significant transactions that may not occur frequently. 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 (In millions, except per share amounts) Revenue $ 1,943.0 $ 1,816.1 $ 1,702.1 $ 1,580.9 $ 1,460.1 Income from operations 324.0 244.9 285.4 206.6 189.0 Net income (1) (2) 204.1 203.1 252.4 158.9 164.2 Net income per share-diluted (1) (2) 0.73 0.70 0.81 0.52 0.56 Total assets 2,418.7 2,096.9 2,345.5 3,209.6 2,428.6 Debt (3) 729.4 693.5 343.3 691.2 324.8 Stockholders equity (4) (5) 989.2 741.8 1,376.1 1,333.6 1,156.1 _________________ (1) During fiscal 2013, we recorded a $33.7 million benefit for income taxes from the release of an uncertain tax position, including related interest and penalties, and a $5.9 million tax benefit from the retroactive enactment of the fiscal 2012 United States federal research tax credit. (2) During fiscal 2017, we recorded a provisional income tax expense of $96.8 million related to the income tax effects of the Tax Act. (3) During fiscal 2015, we settled the outstanding principal amount of the 2015 Notes. In connection with the 2015 Notes we received proceeds of $530.6 million from the 2015 Notes Hedges, which fully offset the additional cash payments associated with the 2015 Notes Embedded Conversion Derivative. (4) During fiscal 2016, we repurchased shares of our common stock for a total cost of $960.3 million . (5) We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. 28 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and with Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Please refer to the cautionary language at the beginning of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding forward-looking statements. Business Overview We continue to focus on executing our system design enablement strategy to deliver the tools necessary for our customers to develop complete and functional electronic products. Our growing core electronic design automation business is at the heart of our strategy and is complemented by our business in intellectual property, system interconnect and analysis, system level design and hardware-software development. Our business serves customers that are driven by end-user demand for electronics systems, integrated circuits and devices that are smaller, use less power and provide more functionality. We must keep pace with our customers technical developments, satisfy industry standards and meet our customers increasingly demanding performance, productivity, quality and predictability requirements. We offer innovative solutions to help our customers meet these demands and our future performance depends on our ability to innovate, commercialize newly developed solutions and enhance and maintain our current products. Our acquisitions may increase the speed at which we can deliver innovative solutions to our customers. We have identified certain items that management uses as performance indicators to manage our business, including revenue, certain elements of operating expenses and cash flow from operations, and we describe these items further below under the headings Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources. Results of Operations Financial results for fiscal 2017 , as compared to fiscal 2016 and 2015 , reflect the following: increased product and maintenance revenue resulting from overall growth in our software and IP business, particularly in Asia and Europe; continued investment in research and development activities focused on creating and enhancing our products to maintain the pace of innovation required by our customers; and provisional tax effects from the enactment of the Tax Act. Our fiscal years are 52- or 53-week periods ending on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015 were each 52-week fiscal years. Revenue We primarily generate revenue from licensing our software and IP, selling or leasing our emulation and prototyping hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software, hardware and IP, providing engineering services and earning royalties generated from the use of our IP. The timing of our revenue is significantly affected by the mix of software, hardware and IP products generating revenue in any given period and whether the revenue is recognized over multiple periods or up front, upon completion of delivery. Our revenue may also be affected by our ability to bring to market newly developed or acquired technology. During fiscal 2017, we acquired technology that is not expected to generate significant incremental revenue during fiscal 2018. For an additional description of our acquisitions, see Note 7 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Approximately 90% of our revenue is recognized over time, and the remainder of the resulting revenue is recognized up front, upon completion of delivery. Revenue recognized over time includes revenue from our time-based software arrangements, certain IP license arrangements where revenue is recognized over multiple periods, services, royalties from certain IP arrangements, maintenance on perpetual software licenses and hardware, and operating leases of hardware. Upfront revenue is primarily generated by our sales of emulation and prototyping hardware and perpetual software and certain IP licenses. Our ability to maintain this mix in any single fiscal period may be impacted primarily by delivery of hardware and IP products to our customers. For an additional description of the impact of emulation hardware sales on the timing of revenue recognition, see the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we will recognize revenue based on the revenue recognition requirements of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). Under the new standard, we will continue to recognize revenue over time for our software arrangements, and the timing of revenue recognition for our hardware and professional services is expected to remain substantially unchanged. For additional information on the impact the new accounting standard will have on our revenue, see the discussion under the heading New Accounting Standards. 29 Table of Contents We believe our reported revenue and the amount of revenue recognized in future periods will depend on, among other things, the: competitiveness of our technology; and size, duration, timing, terms and type of: contract renewals with existing customers; additional sales to existing customers; and sales to new customers. Revenue by Year The following table shows our revenue for fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 and the change in revenue between years: Change 2017 2016 2015 2017 vs. 2016 2016 vs. 2015 (In millions, except percentages) Product and maintenance $ 1,814.0 $ 1,683.8 $ 1,578.9 $ 130.2 8 % $ 104.9 7 % Services 129.0 132.3 123.2 (3.3 ) (2 )% 9.1 7 % Total revenue $ 1,943.0 $ 1,816.1 $ 1,702.1 $ 126.9 7 % $ 114.0 7 % Product and maintenance revenue increased during fiscal 2017 , as compared to fiscal 2016 , primarily because of growth in our software and IP businesses, partially offset by lower revenue from emulation and prototyping hardware. Product and maintenance revenue increased during fiscal 2016 , as compared to fiscal 2015 , primarily because of an increase in revenue from our Palladium Z1 enterprise emulation system and our digital IC product offerings, offset by a reduction in revenue from our IP offerings. Services revenue may fluctuate from period to period based on demand for, and our available resources to fulfill, our services and IP offerings. No one customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue during fiscal 2017 , 2016 or 2015 . Revenue by Product Group The following table shows the percentage of product and related maintenance revenue contributed by each of our five product groups and services during fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 : 2017 2016 2015 Functional Verification, including Emulation and Prototyping Hardware 22 % 25 % 23 % Digital IC Design and Signoff 29 % 29 % 28 % Custom IC Design 27 % 25 % 26 % System Interconnect and Analysis 10 % 10 % 11 % IP 12 % 11 % 12 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Revenue by product group fluctuates from period to period based on demand for, and our available resources to deliver and support our products and services. As described in Note 2 in the notes to consolidated financial statements, certain of our licensing arrangements allow customers the ability to remix among software products. Additionally, we have arrangements with customers that include a combination of our products, with the actual product selection and number of licensed users to be determined at a later date. For these arrangements, we estimate the allocation of the revenue to product groups based upon the expected usage of our products. The actual usage of our products by these customers may differ and, if that proves to be the case, the revenue allocation in the table above would differ. 30 Table of Contents Revenue by Geography Change 2017 2016 2015 2017 vs. 2016 2016 vs. 2015 (In millions, except percentages) United States $ 829.4 $ 832.6 $ 782.4 $ (3.2 ) % $ 50.2 6 % Other Americas 35.1 31.3 26.0 3.8 12 % 5.3 20 % Asia 526.2 445.5 413.6 80.7 18 % 31.9 8 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 385.7 346.7 316.7 39.0 11 % 30.0 9 % Japan 166.6 160.0 163.4 6.6 4 % (3.4 ) (2 )% Total revenue $ 1,943.0 $ 1,816.1 $ 1,702.1 $ 126.9 7 % $ 114.0 7 % Revenue for the United States decreased during fiscal 2017, as compared to fiscal 2016, primarily due to lower revenue from emulation and prototyping hardware and services, partially offset by growth in revenue from software and IP. For the primary factors contributing to the increase in revenue for Other Americas, Asia, and Europe, Middle East and Africa and Japan during fiscal 2017, as compared to fiscal 2016, see the general description under Revenue by Year above. For the primary factors contributing to the increase in revenue for the United States, Other Americas, Asia, and Europe, Middle East and Africa during fiscal 2016, as compared to fiscal 2015, see the general description under Revenue by Year above. Revenue for Japan decreased during fiscal 2016, as compared to fiscal 2015, primarily due to difficult business conditions facing our Japanese customers. Revenue by Geography as a Percent of Total Revenue 2017 2016 2015 United States 42 % 46 % 46 % Other Americas 2 % 2 % 1 % Asia 27 % 25 % 24 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 20 % 19 % 19 % Japan 9 % 8 % 10 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Revenue by geography fluctuates from period to period based on demand for, and our available resources to deliver and support, our products and services. Most of our revenue is transacted in the United States dollar. However, certain revenue transactions are denominated in foreign currencies. For an additional description of how changes in foreign exchange rates affect our consolidated financial statements, see the discussion under Item 7A,