Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q , or this Quarterly Report, and in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2010. Certain of these statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding the extent and timing of future revenues and expenses and customer demand, statements regarding the deployment of our products, statements regarding our reliance on third parties and other statements using words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, forecasts, intends, may, plans, projects, should, will and would, and words of similar import and the negatives thereof, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are predictions based upon our current expectations about future events. Actual results could vary materially as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, those expressed in these statements. We refer you to the Risk Factors, Results of Operations, Disclosures About Market Risk, and Liquidity and Capital Resources sections contained in this Quarterly Report, and the risks discussed in our other Securities Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings, which identify important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. Overview We develop electronic design automation, or EDA, software, hardware and silicon intellectual property, or IP. We license software and IP, sell or lease hardware technology, provide maintenance for our software, IP and hardware and provide engineering and education services throughout the world to help manage and accelerate product development processes for electronics. Our customers use our products and services to design and develop complex integrated circuits, or ICs, and electronics systems. We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software and IP, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software and hardware and providing engineering services. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from IC and electronics systems manufacturers and designers and is dependent upon their commencement of new design projects. As a result, our revenue is significantly influenced by our customers business outlook and investment in the introduction of new products and the improvement of existing products. During 2008 and 2009, the semiconductor industry suffered as the overall macroeconomic environment deteriorated. Electronics companies faced financial challenges in 2008 and 2009 because consumer spending on electronics was adversely affected by increased unemployment, and corporate spending was restrained by the tightened credit market and the economic downturn. During 2009, semiconductor unit volumes decreased and average selling prices declined. These factors affect how electronics companies address traditional challenges of cost, quality, innovation and time-to-market associated with highly complex electronics systems and IC product development. Although estimates project growth for the semiconductor industry in 2010, we believe that increased spending on EDA and other tools may grow more slowly than the semiconductor industry as a whole in 2010. 29 Table of Contents Facing uncertainty and cost pressures in their own businesses or otherwise as a result of the recent economic downturn, some of our customers are continuing to wait to purchase our products and to seek purchasing terms and conditions that are less favorable to us. As a result, we have experienced low business levels and losses from operations in recent years. To enable us to keep our focus on the value of our technology and to assist with customer demands, we are continuing our transition to a license mix that will provide our customers with greater flexibility and will result in a substantial portion of our revenue being recognized ratably. Our customers may also experience adverse changes in their businesses and, as a result, may delay or default on their payment obligations, file for bankruptcy or modify or cancel plans to license our products. If our customers are not successful in generating sufficient cash or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us, although these obligations are generally not cancelable. Additionally, our customers may seek to renegotiate existing contractual commitments. Although we have not yet experienced a material level of defaults, any material payment default by our customers or significant reductions in existing contractual commitments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Product performance and size specifications of the mobile and other consumer electronics markets are requiring electronic systems to be smaller, consume less power and provide multiple functions in one system-on-chip, or SoC, or system-in-package, or SiP. The design challenge is also becoming more complex with each new generation of electronics because providers of EDA solutions are required to deliver products that address these technical challenges and improve the efficiency and productivity of the design process in a price-conscious environment. With the addition of emerging nanometer design considerations to the already burgeoning set of traditional design tasks, complex SoC or IC design can no longer be accomplished using a collection of discrete design tools. What previously consisted of sequential design activities must be merged and accomplished nearly simultaneously without time-consuming data translation steps. We combine our design technologies into platforms addressing four major design activities: functional verification, digital IC design, custom IC design and system interconnect design. The four Cadence design platforms are branded as Incisive functional verification, Encounter digital IC design, Virtuoso custom design and Allegro system interconnect design. In addition, we augment these offerings with a set of design for manufacturing, or DFM, products that service both the digital and custom IC design flows. These four offerings, together with our DFM products, comprise our primary product lines. We have identified certain items that management uses as performance indicators to manage our business, including revenue, certain elements of operating expenses and cash flow from operations, and we describe these items further below under the heading Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources. Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income (loss) and net income (loss), as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. At least quarterly, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates and make changes accordingly. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and 30 Table of Contents estimates relative to our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results. For further information about our critical accounting estimates, see the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2010. Our critical accounting estimates for valuation of intangible assets, valuation of goodwill and financial instruments and fair value are described below. These assumptions, judgments and estimates became critical accounting estimates during the nine months ended October 2, 2010. Valuation of Intangible assets When we acquire businesses, we allocate the purchase price to acquired tangible assets and liabilities and acquired identifiable intangible assets. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price requires us to make significant estimates in determining the fair values of these acquired assets and assumed liabilities, especially with respect to intangible assets. These estimates are based on information obtained from management of the acquired companies, our assessment of this information, and historical experience. These estimates can include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate in the future, the appropriate weighted-average cost of capital, and the cost savings expected to be derived from acquiring an asset. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable, and if different estimates were used, the purchase price for the acquisition could be allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities differently from the allocation that we have made. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates, and if such events occur, we may be required to record a charge against the value ascribed to an acquired asset or an increase in the amounts recorded for assumed liabilities. We review for impairment long-lived assets, including certain identifiable intangibles, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that we will not be able to recover an assets carrying amount. In addition, we assess our long-lived assets for impairment if they are abandoned. For long-lived assets to be held and used, including acquired intangibles, we initiate our review whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of an asset is measured by comparing its carrying amount to the expected future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of that asset, excluding future interest costs that would be recognized as an expense when incurred. Any impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair market value. Significant management judgment is required in: Identifying a triggering event that arises from a change in circumstances; Forecasting future operating results; and Estimating the proceeds from the disposition of long-lived or intangible assets. In future periods, material impairment charges could be necessary should different conditions prevail or different judgments be made. Valuation of Goodwill Costs in excess of the fair value of tangible and other intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are recorded as goodwill. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead is tested for impairment at least annually. We have evaluated goodwill on an annual basis and whenever events and changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 31 Table of Contents Impairment of goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level by comparing the reporting units carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. The fair values of the reporting units are estimated using a combination of the income, or discounted cash flows, approach and the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies data. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered to be impaired and a second step is performed to measure the amount of the impairment loss. The preparation of the goodwill impairment analysis requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions with respect to the determination of fair values of reporting units and tangible and intangible assets. These estimates and assumptions, which include future values, are complex and often subjective and may differ significantly from period to period based on changes in the overall economic environment, changes in our industry and changes in our strategy or our internal forecasts. Estimates and assumptions with respect to the determination of the fair value of our reporting unit include: Control premium assigned to our market capitalization; Our operating forecasts; Revenue growth rates; Risk-commensurate discount rates and costs of capital; and Market multiples of revenue and earnings. These estimates and assumptions, along with others, are used to estimate the fair value of our reporting unit as well as tangible and intangible assets. While we believe the estimates and assumptions we used are reasonable, different assumptions may materially impact the resulting fair value of the reporting unit, tangible assets and intangible assets, the amount of impairment we record in any given period and our results of operations. We completed our annual goodwill impairment test during the three months ended October 2, 2010 and determined that the fair value of our single reporting unit substantially exceeded the carrying amount of our net assets and that no impairment existed. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Inputs to valuation techniques are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our market assumptions. These two types of inputs have created the following fair-value hierarchy: Level 1 Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets; Level 2 Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets; and Level 3 Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable. This hierarchy requires us to minimize the use of unobservable inputs and to use observable market data, if available, when determining fair value. We recognize transfers between levels of this hierarchy based on the fair values of the respective financial instruments at the end of the reporting period in which the transfer occurred. Changes in fair value are recognized in earnings each period for financial instruments that are carried at fair value. 32 Table of Contents The types of instruments that trade in markets that are not considered to be active, but are valued based on quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency, are generally classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. In June 2010, we entered into hedge transactions, or the 2015 Notes Hedges, and recorded an embedded conversion derivative, or the 2015 Notes Embedded Conversion Derivative, concurrent with the issuance of the 2015 Notes. The fair values of these derivatives are determined using an option pricing model based on observable inputs, such as implied volatility of our common stock, risk-free interest rate and other factors, and as such are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. See Note 2 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of these transactions. Certain instruments are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy because they trade infrequently and therefore have little or no price transparency. For those instruments that are not traded in active markets or are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and/or non-transferability, and such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, our best estimate is used. Results of Operations Financial results for the three and nine months ended October 2, 2010, as compared to the three and nine months ended October 3, 2009, reflect the following: Increased revenue recognized because of higher business levels due to the timing of contract renewals with existing customers and from contracts executed in prior quarters due to our continued transition to a ratable license mix, which began in the third quarter of fiscal 2008; A decrease in our bad debt expense due to the prior year period increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts as a result of our assessment of the increased risk of customer delays or defaults on payment obligations and the current year release of a portion of the reserve as a result of collections on certain receivables that were previously included in our allowance for doubtful accounts; An increase in employee-related costs primarily resulting from improving business levels as compared to fiscal 2009, partially offset by decreased costs as a result of our prior year restructuring plans and other expense reductions; The acquisition of Denali Software, Inc., or Denali, including an increase in deferred tax liabilities from the intangible assets acquired with Denali and the resulting benefit for income taxes because of the release of valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets; Effective settlement of the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2000 through 2002, which resulted in a benefit for income taxes of $148.3 million; and The issuance of $350.0 million principal amount of our 2.625% Cash Convertible Senior Notes Due 2015, or the 2015 Notes, and the repurchase of $100.0 million principal amount of our 1.375% Convertible Senior Notes Due December 15, 2011, or the 2011 Notes, and $100.0 million principal amount of our 1.500% Convertible Senior Notes Due December 15, 2013, or the 2013 Notes, and collectively with the 2011 Notes, the Convertible Senior Notes. Acquisition of Denali In June 2010, we acquired Denali, a privately-held provider of electronic design automation software and intellectual property used in system-on-chip design and verification, for $296.8 million in cash. An additional $12.6 million of payments were deferred on the acquisition date and will be paid in cash 33 Table of Contents if certain Denali shareholders remain employees of Cadence during the periods specified in the respective agreements. Of the $12.6 million, $5.3 million was expensed in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations during the three months ended October 2, 2010 and $6.0 million was expensed in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations during the nine months ended October 2, 2010. The remaining amounts will be expensed in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations over the stated retention periods. As of October 2, 2010, $0.5 million of the $12.6 million has been paid. Denalis product portfolio includes memory models, design IP and verification IP. We acquired Denali to expand our portfolio to include memory sub-system modeling and IP building blocks to facilitate SoC integration. We expect that the acquisition of Denali will increase our costs more than our expected increase in revenue during the remainder of 2010. Revenue We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software and IP, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software, IP and hardware and providing engineering services. We principally use three license types: subscription, term and perpetual. The different license types provide a customer with different conditions of use for our products, such as: The right to access new technology; The duration of the license; and Payment timing. The timing of our product revenue is significantly affected by the mix of orders executed in any given period. For some orders, such as subscription orders, product and maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over multiple periods. In addition, depending on the individual facts and circumstances of a particular order, we have some orders for which product and maintenance revenue is recognized as payments become due and some for which revenue is only recognized when payment is received. For other orders, all product revenue is recognized up-front in the same quarter in which the order is executed. We seek to achieve a mix of orders with approximately 90% of the total value of all executed orders consisting of orders for which the revenue is recurring, or ratable in nature, with the balance of the orders made up of orders for which the product revenue is recognized up-front. During the three and nine months ended October 2, 2010 and the three and nine months ended October 3, 2009, approximately 90% of the total value of our executed orders was comprised of ratable revenue orders. Customer decisions regarding these aspects of license transactions determine the license type, timing of revenue recognition and potential future business activity. For example, if a customer chooses a fixed duration of use, this will result in either a subscription or term license. A business implication of this decision is that, at the expiration of the license period, the customer must decide whether to continue using the technology and therefore renew the license agreement. Historically, larger customers generally used products from two or more of our five product groups and rarely completely terminated their relationship with us upon expiration of the license. See the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional descriptions of license types and timing of revenue recognition. 34 Table of Contents Although we believe that pricing volatility has not generally been a material component of the change in our revenue from period to period, we believe that the amount of revenue recognized in future periods will depend on, among other things, the: Competitiveness of our new technology; Timing of contract renewals with existing customers; Length of our sales cycle; and Size, duration, terms and type of: Contract renewals with existing customers; Additional sales to existing customers; and Sales to new customers. The value and duration of contracts, and consequently product revenue recognized, is affected by the competitiveness of our products. Product revenue recognized in any period is also affected by the extent to which customers purchase subscription, term or perpetual licenses, and the extent to which contracts contain flexible payment terms. Revenue Mix We analyze our software and hardware businesses by product group, combining revenues for both product and maintenance because of their interrelationship. We have formulated a design solution strategy that combines our design technologies in platforms, as described in the various product groups below. Functional Verification : Products in this group, including the Incisive functional verification platform and the Denali products, are used to verify that the high level, logical representation of an IC design is functionally correct and for verification at the system and SoC levels. Our emulation hardware products, verification IP products, memory sub-system models, and silicon IP products are included in this product group. Digital IC Design : Products in this group, including the Encounter digital IC design platform, are used to accurately convert the high-level, logical representation of a digital IC into a detailed physical blueprint and then detailed design information showing how the IC will be physically implemented. This data is used for creation of the photomasks used to manufacture semiconductors. Custom IC Design : Our custom design products, including the Virtuoso custom design platform, are used for ICs that must be designed at the transistor level, including analog, RF, memory, high performance digital blocks and standard cell libraries. Detailed design information showing how an IC will be physically implemented is used for creation of the photomasks used to manufacture semiconductors. System Interconnect Design : This product group consists of our PCB and IC package design products, including the Allegro and OrCAD products. The Allegro system interconnect design platform enables consistent co-design of interconnects across ICs, IC packages and PCBs, while the OrCAD line focuses on cost-effective, entry-level PCB solutions. Design for Manufacturing : Included in this product group are our physical verification and analysis products. These products are used to analyze and verify that the physical blueprint of the IC has been constructed correctly and can be manufactured successfully. Our strategy includes focusing on integrating DFM awareness into our core design platforms of Encounter digital IC design and Virtuoso custom design. 35 Table of Contents Revenue by Period The following table shows our revenue for the three and nine months ended October 2, 2010 and October 3, 2009 and the change in revenue between periods: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 2, October 3, October 2, October 3, 2010 2009 Change 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Product $ 118.2 $ 96.9 $ 21.3 $ 338.0 $ 286.3 $ 51.7 Services 23.9 26.7 (2.8 ) 75.1 83.7 (8.6 ) Maintenance 95.8 92.5 3.3 273.8 262.4 11.4 Total revenue $ 237.9 $ 216.1 $ 21.8 $ 686.9 $ 632.4 $ 54.5 Product revenue increased during the three and nine months ended October 2, 2010, as compared to the three and nine months ended October 3, 2009, primarily because of higher business levels due to the timing of contract renewals with existing customers and from contracts executed in prior quarters due to our continued transition to a ratable license mix. Product and maintenance revenue also increased as a result of our acquisition of Denali during the second fiscal quarter of 2010. Services revenue decreased during the three and nine months ended October 2, 2010, as compared to the three and nine months ended October 3, 2009, primarily because of lower business levels in the services business. Revenue by Product Group The following table shows for the past five consecutive quarters the percentage of product and related maintenance revenue contributed by each of our five product groups, and Services and other: Three Months Ended October 2, July 3, April 3, January 2, October 3, 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 Functional Verification 25% 26% 22% 22% 21% Digital IC Design 23% 21% 21% 22% 19% Custom IC Design 24% 26% 27% 28% 28% System Interconnect 10% 10% 9% 11% 11% Design for Manufacturing 8% 6% 9% 7% 9% Services and other 10% 11% 12% 10% 12% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% As described under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2010, certain of our licenses allow customers the ability to remix among software products. Additionally, we have licensed a combination of our products to customers with the actual product selection and number of licensed users to be determined at a later date. For these arrangements, we estimate the allocation of the revenue to product groups based upon the expected usage of our products by these customers. The actual usage of our products by these customers may differ and, if that proves to be the case, the revenue allocation in the above table would differ. Although we believe the methodology of allocating revenue to product groups is reasonable, there can be no assurance that such allocated amounts reflect the amounts that would result if the customer had individually licensed each specific software solution at the outset of the arrangement. 36 Table of Contents Revenue by Geography Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 2, October 3, October 2, October 3, 2010 2009 Change 2010 2009 Change (In millions) United States $ 97.6 $ 87.9 $ 9.7 $ 274.9 $ 263.9 $ 11.0 Other Americas 3.7 4.1 (0.4 ) 17.2 14.0 3.2 Europe, Middle East and Africa 48.5 43.4 5.1 150.6 136.7 13.9 Japan 47.2 50.2 (3.0 ) 130.1 125.6 4.5 Asia 40.9 30.5 10.4 114.1 92.2 21.9 Total revenue $ 237.9 $ 216.1 $ 21.8 $ 686.9 $ 632.4 $ 54.5 The increase in revenue in Asia is primarily due to the economic growth in the Asia region, resulting in increased business levels and cash collections. Revenue by Geography as a Percent of Total Revenue Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 2, October 3, October 2, October 3, 2010 2009 2010 2009 United States 41% 41% 40% 42% Other Americas 2% 2% 2% 2% Europe, Middle East and Africa 20% 20% 22% 22% Japan 20% 23% 19% 20% Asia 17% 14% 17% 14% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% Most of our revenue is transacted in the United States dollar. However, certain revenue transactions are in foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, and we recognize additional revenue in periods when the United States dollar weakens in value against the Japanese yen and reduced revenue in periods when the United States dollar strengthens against the Japanese yen. For an additional description of how changes in foreign exchange rates affect our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, see the discussion under the heading