Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 5 Table of Contents Technical Support and Maintenance Customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide our customers with technical support and maintenance to facilitate their use of our software, hardware and IP solutions. Our education services offerings can be customized and include training programs that are delivered online, app-based, or in a classroom setting. The content of these offerings ranges from the latest design techniques to methodologies for using the most recent features of our products. The primary focus of education services is to accelerate our customers path to productivity in the use of our products. Services We offer a number of services, including services related to methodology, education and hosted design solutions. These services may be sold separately or sold and performed in conjunction with the license, sale or lease of our products. As necessary, specialized design services engineers are assigned to internal R&D projects associated with our design IP business. As part of our services offerings, we design advanced ICs, develop custom IP and help customers address design challenges. This enables us to target and accelerate the development of new software technology and products to satisfy current and future design requirements. We offer engineering services to collaborate with our customers in the design of complex ICs and the implementation of key design capabilities, including low power design, IC packaging and board design, functional verification, digital implementation, analog/mixed-signal design and system-level design. The customers for these services primarily consist of semiconductor and systems companies developing products for the consumer, hyperscale computing, 5G communications, mobile, automotive, aerospace and defense, industrial and life science vertical sectors. These ICs range from digital SoCs and analog and RF designs to complex mixed-signal ICs. The Cadence Cloud portfolio, consisting of Cadence-managed and customer-managed environments for electronic product and life sciences companies using the scalability of the cloud, continues to expand, with additional cloud-based and software as a service (SaaS) products added or under development in fiscal 2023, including cloud-based platforms for e-commerce and molecular sciences. Contractual arrangements with customers for both environments are generally time-based, similar to the on-premises software license arrangements described above and may also include usage-based terms. In delivering methodology services, we leverage our experience and knowledge of design techniques, our products, leading practices and different design environments to improve the productivity of our customers engineering teams. Depending on the customers projects and needs, we work with customers using outsourced, consultative and collaborative offerings. Third-Party Programs and Initiatives In addition to our products, many customers use design tools that are provided by other companies, as well as design IP available from alternative suppliers. We support the use of third-party design products and design IP through our Cadence Connections program and through our participation in industry groups such as the Silicon Integration Initiative and Accellera System Initiative. We actively contribute to the development and deployment of industry standards. Product and Maintenance and Services Revenue Revenue, and revenue as a percentage of total revenue, from our product and maintenance and services offerings for the last three fiscal years were as follows: 2023 2022 2021 (In millions, except percentages) Product and maintenance $ 3,834 94 % $ 3,340 94 % $ 2,813 94 % Services 256 6 % 222 6 % 175 6 % Total revenue $ 4,090 $ 3,562 $ 2,988 Recurring revenue includes revenue recognized over time from our software arrangements, services, royalties, maintenance on IP licenses and hardware, and operating leases of hardware. Recurring revenue also includes revenue recognized at varying points in time over the term of other arrangements with non-cancelable commitments, whereby the customer commits to a fixed dollar amount over a specified period of time that can be used to purchase from a list of products or services. These arrangements do not meet the definition of a revenue contract until the customer executes a separate selection form to identify the products and services that they are purchasing. Each separate selection form under the arrangement is treated as an individual contract and accounted for based on the respective performance obligations. The remainder of our revenue is recognized at a point in time and is characterized as up-front revenue. Up-front revenue is primarily generated by sales of emulation and prototyping hardware and individual IP licenses. The percentage of our recurring and up-front revenue is impacted by delivery of hardware and IP products to our customers in any single fiscal period. 6 Table of Contents For additional information and analysis on our revenue, including revenue by geography, see the discussion under Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For our fiscal 2023 results of operations and our financial position as of December 31, 2023, see Part IV, Item 15, Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. Remaining Performance Obligations Revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations represents the transaction price allocated to the performance obligations that are unsatisfied, or partially unsatisfied, which includes unearned revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. We have elected to exclude the potential future royalty receipts from the remaining performance obligations. Contracted but unsatisfied performance obligations were approximately $6.0 billion as of December 31, 2023, which included $0.4 billion of non-cancelable commitments from customers where actual product selection and quantities of specific products or services are to be determined by customers at a later date. We estimate our remaining performance obligations at a point in time. Actual amounts and timing of revenue recognition may differ from these estimates largely due to changes in actual installation and delivery dates, as well as contract renewals, modifications and terminations. As of December 31, 2023, we expected to recognize 56% of the contracted but unsatisfied performance obligations, excluding non-cancelable commitments, as revenue over the next 12 months, 39% over the next 13 to 36 months and the remainder thereafter. Marketing and Sales We generally market our products and provide services to existing and prospective customers through a direct sales force consisting of salespeople and applications engineers. Applications engineers provide technical pre-sales and post-sales support for our products. Due to the complexity of many of our products and the system design process, the sales cycle is generally long, requiring up to six months or longer. During the sales cycle, our direct sales force generally provides technical presentations, product demonstrations and support for on-site customer evaluation of our solutions. We also promote our products and services through advertising, marketing automation, trade shows, public relations and the internet. We selectively utilize value-added resellers to broaden our reach and reduce cost of sales. Our OrCAD products and certain Allegro products are primarily marketed through these channels. With respect to international sales, we generally market and support our products and services through our subsidiaries. We also use a third-party distributor to license our products and services to certain customers in Japan. Research and Development Our future performance depends on our ability to innovate, commercialize newly developed solutions and enhance and maintain our current products. The primary areas of our R&D align with our product categories discussed above. We must continuously adapt our products to solve new or increased physics challenges that arise with each successive process node and address the increase in complexity that is introduced by the resulting much larger designs. We must also keep pace with our customers technical developments, satisfy industry standards and meet our customers increasingly demanding performance, productivity, quality and predictability requirements. Therefore, we expect to continue to make significant investments in R&D. Hardware Manufacturing and Software Distribution Our emulation and prototyping hardware, including all individual PCBs, custom ICs and FPGA-based prototyping components, is manufactured, assembled and tested by subcontractors before delivery to our customers. Software and documentation are primarily distributed to customers by secure electronic delivery. Proprietary Technology Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Many of our products include software or other IP licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new licenses or renew existing licenses for third-party software and other IP in the future. As part of performing engineering services for customers, our engineering services business uses certain software and other IP licensed from third parties, including that of our competitors. Governmental Regulations We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to our business and operations. These include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations related to trade controls, anti-corruption and anti-bribery, and data privacy and data protection, as well as antitrust, competition, employment, income taxes and the environment. 7 Table of Contents Trade controls. We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions concerning the sale, shipment and transmission of our products and technology outside the United States and to foreign nationals, including tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, sanctions and other trade regulations. U.S. Export Administration Regulations include Entity List and Unverified List restrictions imposed by the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) of the U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC). BIS frequently adds entities to the Entity List and the Unverified List, some of which have been Cadence customers. BIS also issues new rules and regulations from time to time. In 2022, BIS issued new restrictions concerning advanced node IC production in China and other countries and extended controls to additional technologies, including electronic computer-aided design software specially designed for the development of ICs with Gate-All-Around Field-Effect Transistor structure. Trade regulations limiting or banning sales into certain countries or to certain companies have impacted our ability to transact business in certain countries and with certain customers. Future trade regulations may also impact our ability to transact business with certain customers and in certain countries and may restrict certain non-U.S. person employees from performing their duties at Cadence without first obtaining appropriate authorization if their duties involve an export, reexport, or transfer of export-controlled technology. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery. We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions concerning anti-corruption and anti-bribery, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, which prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials and bribes to other persons. Data privacy and data protection. We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions governing data privacy and data protection, including the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union, which regulate our collection, handling and use of personal information. The laws and regulations to which we are subject are complex and may change or develop over time, sometimes with limited or no advance notice. Developments or other changes in laws or regulations or how they are interpreted or enforced have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our business and increase our compliance-related expenditures. For additional information regarding risks related to laws and regulations, including existing restrictions imposed by BIS, as well as international relations, see Item 1A, Risk Factors. Competition We compete most frequently with Synopsys, Inc., Siemens EDA, and ANSYS, Inc., and also with numerous other tools providers, electronics device manufacturers with their own EDA capabilities, technical or computational software companies, electronics design and consulting companies and other IP companies. These include U.S. based companies such as Keysight Technologies, Inc., Schrdinger, Inc. and CEVA, Inc. and foreign companies such as Altium Limited (Australia) and Zuken Ltd. (Japan) and emerging competitors in China like Huada Empyrean, Xpeedic, X-EPIC, Primarius Technologies, Univista and Giga-DA. Some of our competitors have made or may make acquisitions and/or have entered or may enter into partnerships or other strategic relationships which may alter their ability to compete with us. Certain competitive factors in the engineering services business differ from those of the products businesses. While we compete with other computational software companies in the engineering services business, our principal competitors in this area include independent engineering service businesses. Many of these companies are also customers, and therefore use our product offerings in the delivery of their services or products. For more information on risks related to competitive factors affecting our business, see the relevant discussions throughout Item 1A, Risk Factors. Human Capital Resource Management Our future success is inextricably linked to our ability to attract, retain and develop exceptional talent globally. To facilitate talent attraction and retention, we invest in key initiatives including, but not limited to, furthering diversity, equity and inclusion, physical and mental health, and talent development. To measure engagement and collect feedback from our employees, we administer regular employee engagement surveys. Our core cultural tenet is One Team One Cadence, highlighting that seamless teamwork is critical to making Cadence a great place to work for all. We believe that a high-performing, inclusive culture is a competitive differentiator and crucial to our business' success. Cadence leaders are tasked with creating and sustaining our culture and therefore, they are measured on their contributions to diversity, equity and inclusion, attraction, development and engagement of high-caliber talent, and advancing our sustainability objectives. Employees We believe our employees represent the best and brightest in our industry, and the talent we select to be a part of our team defines our culture and success. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 11,200 employees. Our global workforce is highly educated, technical and specialized, with a substantial majority of employees working in engineering roles. 8 Table of Contents Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We believe that workforce diversity, equity and inclusion advance high performance and innovation. We recognize that gender and racial disparities remain a challenge in the technology field, and with a high proportion of technical employees, we are focused on addressing this issue and have appointed executive sponsors to drive this focus throughout our company. Some of our current programs and initiatives aimed at addressing this issue include: Regular monitoring of the diversity of our current workforce and candidate pool, with an aim to identify and address areas where we can improve. Partnerships with organizations such as National Society of Black Engineers, Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, Out in Tech, National GEM Consortium and Society of Women Engineers and similar university programs to advance our efforts in outreach, engagement, and inclusion. Development programs at Cadence including our IMPACT mentorship program which gives early career women, and U.S. Black and Latinx employees an opportunity to choose a meaningful mentor based on their career goals. Training and resources for managers, such as inclusive leadership training. Inclusion groups for Black, Latinx, Asian American and Pacific Islanders, LGBTQ+, veterans, women employees, employees who are neurodivergent or disabled and allies which host networking events to foster dialogue and promote awareness. Health, Safety and Wellness We strive to create a safe and rewarding environment to enable our employees to develop the innovations necessary for our sustained success. With the aim of providing for both the physical and mental health of our employees, we offer a variety of benefits that go beyond traditional health insurance. Our U.S. health and well-being benefits include fertility benefits, coverage for transgender employees undergoing medical treatment, expanded new parent leave, adoption and surrogacy benefits, financial planning and coaching services and legal services. We also provide training and tools for stress management, time management, conflict resolution and emotional well-being. Compensation and Benefits To inspire and recognize our employees, we offer what we believe are competitive compensation and benefits programs. Our compensation programs link employee compensation to our business and individual performance. We also offer a semi-annual bonus program, 401(k) match, Employee Stock Purchase Plan and equity compensation. In addition, our employees are eligible to receive monetary awards from their colleagues through our peer-to-peer recognition program. Talent Development To help employees succeed in their current roles, pursue their passions and develop the skills necessary for advancement, we provide formal training programs and curriculums in addition to on-the-job training. Our high performance culture platform provides our employees with valuable resources such as a comprehensive online Learning Management program with training and development tools on a broad range of topics and skills. We also offer tuition reimbursement opportunities to employees to further hone their skills. Social Impact and Community Outreach We believe it is important to create meaningful opportunities for employees to connect and contribute to their communities. We provide paid volunteer time off, charitable contribution matching, company-wide volunteer campaigns, international service immersion projects and grants to employees who are giving back to their communities. The Cadence Giving Foundation, established in 2021, is committed to providing Cadence employees and others a means through which to carry out their volunteer activities as well as making an impact on our focus areas of environmental sustainability and climate change, diversity, equity and inclusion, and science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education. This is accomplished through various means, including grant making and partnerships with non-profit organizations committed to addressing these issues. We also make charitable contributions consisting of Cadence technology product donations. Corporate Responsibility We believe that, in general, the best and brightest talent is inclined to build a career with a responsible organization that positively impacts society. We recognize that climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. We are focused on doing our part to contribute to the health of the planet by actively investing in initiatives to reduce our environmental footprint. We encourage you to review our 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance ("ESG") Report available through our website, and our 2023 ESG Report when released, for more information on our ESG targets, initiatives and progress. The contents of our ESG Reports are not part of or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 9 Table of Contents Corporate Information Our headquarters is located at 2655 Seely Avenue, San Jose, California 95134. Our telephone number is (408) 943-1234. We use our website at www.cadence.com to communicate important information about our company, including news releases and financial information. Our website permits investors to subscribe to email notification alerts when we post new material information on our website. We also make available on our investor relations webpage, free of charge, copies of our SEC filings and submissions, which can be found at the SECs website, www.sec.gov, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such documents with the SEC. Stockholders may also request copies of these documents by writing to our Corporate Secretary at the address above. Website references are provided throughout this document for convenience only. The contents of these websites do not constitute a part of this Annual Report and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report unless expressly noted. Fiscal Year End Historically, our fiscal years were 52- or 53-week periods ending on the Saturday closest to December 31. During fiscal 2022, our Board of Directors approved a change in our fiscal year end from the Saturday closest to December 31 of each year to December 31 of each year. The fiscal year change became effective beginning with our 2023 fiscal year, which began on January 1, 2023. Both fiscal year 2022 and 2021, which are included in this report for comparative purposes, represent 52-week periods. Our first three fiscal quarters end on March 31, June 30, and September 30. 10 Table of Contents INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following table provides information regarding our executive officers as of February 13, 2024: Name Age Positions and Offices Anirudh Devgan 54 President and Chief Executive Officer John M. Wall 53 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thomas P. Beckley 66 Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Custom IC and PCB Group Paul Cunningham 46 Senior Vice President and General Manager of the System Verification Group Karna Nisewaner 49 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Chin-Chi Teng 58 Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Digital and Signoff Group Neil Zaman 55 Senior Vice President and Chief Revenue Officer Our executive officers are appointed by our Board of Directors and serve at the discretion of our Board of Directors. ANIRUDH DEVGAN has served as Chief Executive Officer of Cadence since December 2021 and President of Cadence since November 2017. From May 2012 to November 2017, Dr. Devgan held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Executive Vice President, Research and Development from March 2017 to November 2017 and Senior Vice President, Research and Development from November 2013 to March 2017. Prior to joining Cadence, from May 2005 to March 2012, Dr. Devgan served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the Custom Design Business Unit at Magma Design Automation, Inc., an EDA company. Dr. Devgan has a B.Tech. in electrical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, and an M.S. and Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering from Carnegie Mellon University. JOHN M. WALL has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cadence since October 2017. From June 1997 to October 2017, Mr. Wall held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President and Corporate Controller from April 2016 to October 2017, Vice President, Finance and Operations, Worldwide Revenue Accounting and Sales Finance from 2015 to 2016 and Vice President, Finance and Operations, EMEA and Worldwide Revenue Accounting from 2005 to 2015. Mr. Wall has an NCBS from the Institute of Technology, Tralee and is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. THOMAS P. BECKLEY has served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Custom IC and PCB Group of Cadence since 2018. From September 2012 to September 2018, Mr. Beckley served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence. From April 2004 to September 2012, Mr. Beckley served as Corporate Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence. Prior to joining Cadence, Mr. Beckley served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Neolinear, Inc., a developer of auto-interactive and automated analog/RF tools and solutions for mixed-signal design that Cadence acquired in April 2004. Mr. Beckley has a B.S. in mathematics and physics from Kalamazoo College and an M.B.A. from Vanderbilt University. PAUL CUNNINGHAM has served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the System Verification Group of Cadence since March 2021. From August 2011 to March 2021, Dr. Cunningham held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President of the System Verification Group beginning January 2018. Prior to joining Cadence, Dr. Cunningham was co-founder and Chief Executive Officer of Azuro, Inc., a clock concurrent optimization company, that Cadence acquired in July 2011. Dr. Cunningham has an M.A. and Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Cambridge in the United Kingdom. KARNA NISEWANER has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Cadence since February 2024. From May 2011 to February 2024, Ms. Nisewaner held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary beginning in September 2022. Prior to joining Cadence, Ms. Nisewaner held in-house counsel roles at Intuit from 2007 to 2011 and IBM from 2003 to 2007. Ms. Nisewaner was in private practice focused on IP at Finnegan, Henderson, Farbow, Garrett, and Dunner, LLP from 2001 to 2003. Ms. Nisewaner has a B.S.E. in civil engineering and operations research from Princeton University and a J.D. from UCLA School of Law. CHIN-CHI TENG has served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Digital and Signoff Group of Cadence since September 2018. From January 2002 to September 2018, Dr. Teng held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President, Research and Development from June 2015 to September 2018, and Vice President, Research and Development from March 2009 to June 2015. Dr. Teng has a B.S. in electrical engineering from the National Taiwan University and a Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. NEIL ZAMAN has served as Chief Revenue Officer of Cadence since October 2020 and as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations since September 2015. From October 1999 to September 2015, Mr. Zaman held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President, North America Field Operations. Prior to joining Cadence, Mr. Zaman held positions at Phoenix Technologies Ltd., a developer of core system software, and IBM Corporation, a technology and consulting company. Mr. Zaman has a B.S. in finance from California State University, Hayward. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the sections below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, revenue, growth, prospects, demand for our products and services, reputation and the trading price of our common stock, and make an investment in us speculative or risky. The following does not summarize all of the risks that we face, and there may be additional risks or uncertainties that are currently unknown or not believed to be material that occur or become material. Business and Operational Risks We have experienced varied operating results, and our operating results for any particular fiscal period are affected by the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our emulation and prototyping hardware and IP products. Historical results of operations should not be viewed as reliable indicators of our future performance. Various factors affect our operating results, and some of them are not within our control. Our operating results for any period are affected by the mix of products and services sold in a given period and the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our emulation and prototyping hardware and IP products. In addition, we have recorded net losses in the past and may record net losses in the future. Also, our cash flows from operating activities have and will continue to fluctuate due to a number of factors, including the timing of our billings, collections, disbursements and tax payments. A substantial portion of the product revenue related to our hardware business and our IP offerings is recognized upon delivery, and our forecasted revenue results are based, in part, on our expectations of hardware and IP to be delivered in a particular quarter. Therefore, changes in hardware and IP bookings or deliveries relative to expectations will have a more immediate impact on our revenue than changes in software or services bookings, for which revenue is generally recognized over time. As we continue to expand our IP offerings, a portion of the revenue related to our IP bookings will be deferred until we complete and deliver the licensed IP to our customers. As a result, costs related to the research and development of IP may be incurred prior to the recognition of the related revenue. Revenue related to our hardware and IP products is inherently difficult to predict because sales of our hardware and IP products depend on the commencement of new projects for the design and development of complex ICs and systems by our customers, our customers willingness to expend capital to deploy our new and existing hardware or IP products in those projects and the availability of our new and existing hardware or IP products for delivery. Therefore, our hardware or IP sales may be delayed or may decrease if our customers delay or cancel projects because their spending is constrained or if there are problems or delays with the supply, delivery or installation of our hardware or IP products or our hardware suppliers. Moreover, the market environment for hardware and IP is highly competitive, and our customers may choose to purchase a competitors hardware or IP product based on cost, performance or other factors. These factors may result in lower revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. A substantial proportion of our software licenses yield revenue recognized over time, which may make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue in future fiscal periods and means that a decrease in orders in a given period would negatively affect our revenue in future periods. We plan our operating expenses based on forecasted revenue, expected business needs and other factors such as inflation. These expenses and the effect of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. Bookings and the related revenue are harder to forecast in a difficult economic environment. If we experience a shortfall in bookings, our operating results could differ from our expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce our expenses in response to short-term business changes. Our operating expenses are also impacted by economic conditions, such as inflation. Unexpected increases in inflation could cause our expenses to increase at a rate faster than our product pricing to recover such increases. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see Critical Accounting Estimates under Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Such methods, estimates and judgments are subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that may lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Uncertainty in the global economy and instability within international relations, including changes in governmental policies relating to technology, and any potential downturn in the semiconductor and electronics industries, may negatively impact our business and reduce our bookings levels and revenue. Purchases of our products and services are dependent upon the commencement of new design projects by IC manufacturers and electronics systems companies. The IC and electronics systems industries are cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The IC and electronics systems industries have also experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both these industries and their customers products. The current outlook for the global economy is uncertain and may result in a decrease in spending on our products and services despite recent growth. 12 Table of Contents Uncertainty caused by the recent challenging global political and economic conditions, including the effects of the rise in inflation and interest rates, bank failures, U.S. deficit concerns, the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the conflict in the Middle East, adverse changes to international relationships among countries in which we or our customers operate or do business, protectionist measures or decline in corporate or consumer spending could negatively impact our customers businesses, reducing the number of new chip designs and their overall research and development spending, including their spending on our products and services, and as a result decrease demand for our products and services. Adverse developments that affect financial institutions, transactional counterparties or other third parties, such as bank failures and protracted U.S. federal debt ceiling negotiations, or concerns or speculation about any similar events or risks, have led and could lead to further credit downgrades and market-wide liquidity problems, which in turn may cause customers and other third parties to become unable to meet their obligations under various types of financial arrangements as well as general disruptions or instability in the financial markets. Public health emergencies, like the COVID-19 pandemic, and reactionary measures by governments and businesses have also had, and could in the future have, the effect of curtailing economic activity and causing substantial volatility and disruption in global markets. Decreased bookings for our products and services, customer bankruptcies, consolidation among our customers, or problems or delays with our hardware suppliers or with the supply or delivery of our hardware products could also adversely affect our ability to grow our business or adversely affect our future revenue and financial results. There is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships between certain countries and within regions, that political, diplomatic or military events could result in trade disruptions and other disruptions in the markets and industries we serve and our supply chain. A significant disruption in any area where we or our customers operate or do business could reduce customer demand, make our products and services more expensive or unavailable for customers, increase the cost of our products and services, have a negative impact on customer spending, make our products less competitive, or otherwise have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits, our customers and suppliers businesses, and our results of operations. For example, the ongoing geopolitical and economic uncertainty between the United States and China, where we have derived an increased percentage of our revenue, the unknown impact of current and future U.S. and Chinese trade regulations, and geopolitical risks with respect to Taiwan, which serves as a central hub for the technology industry supply chain, could, directly or indirectly, materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future business and financial results, including demand for our products and services, are subject to considerable uncertainties that could impact our stock price. If economic conditions or international relationships among countries in which we do business deteriorate, or, in particular, if semiconductor or electronics systems industry revenues do not grow, including as a result of a global semiconductor shortage, the ability to export or import products or services by the semiconductor or electronics systems industry is adversely restricted, or our supplies of hardware components and products are subject to problems or delays, we may be adversely affected. Further, political or economic conflicts between various global actors, and responsive measures that have been or could be taken, have created and can further create significant global economic uncertainty that could prolong or expand such conflicts, which could have a lasting impact on regional and global economies and harm our business and operating results. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in global markets as well as a variety of other laws and regulations. We must comply with regulations of the United States and of certain other countries in selling or shipping our products and transferring our technology outside the United States, to foreign nationals (including foreign nationals within the United States) or across borders. Changes in these regulations or restrictions due to changes in trade relationships with the United States, including new tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, sanctions, trade embargoes and other trade barriers, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, the BIS maintains and frequently updates the Entity List, which limits our ability to deliver products and services to these entities, some of which are our customers. When customers are on the Entity List or are subject to new or expanded trade restrictions, such as the recent implementation of controls on advanced computing ICs, computer commodities that contain such ICs, and certain semiconductor manufacturing items, as well as controls on transactions involving items for supercomputer and semiconductor manufacturing end-users, it has a negative effect on our ability to sell products and provide services to these customers. In addition, the issuance of new or expanded trade restrictions, such as the continued expansion of the military end-user and military end-use rule, the foreign-produced direct product rules, or any other rule that prevents a class of commodities, software or technology from export to any specific country or countries without a license, could increase our costs or expenses. Anticipated or actual changes in trade restrictions could also affect customer purchasing behaviors. Entity List restrictions and other trade restrictions may also encourage customers to seek substitute products from our competitors, including a growing class of foreign competitors and open source alternatives, that are not subject to these restrictions or to develop their own solutions, thereby decreasing our long-term competitiveness. In particular, Chinas stated national policy to be a global leader in all segments of the semiconductor industry by 2030 has resulted in and may continue to cause increased competitive capability in China. In addition, although customers on the Entity List are not prohibited from paying (and we are not restricted from collecting) for products we previously delivered to them (in compliance with applicable law), the credit risks associated with outstanding receivables from customers on the Entity List including receivables from anti-piracy enforcement efforts and litigation settlements and other trade restrictions could increase. We cannot predict whether or when any changes will be made that eliminate or decrease these limitations on our ability to sell products and provide services to these Entity List customers or other customers impacted by other trade restrictions. We are unable to predict the duration of the export restrictions imposed with respect to any particular customer, technology, country or region or the long-term effects on our business or our customers businesses. In addition, there may be indirect impacts to our 13 Table of Contents business which we cannot reasonably quantify, including that a country-specific export control may limit or prevent our employees who are nationals of the restricted country from performing their duties unless a license can be obtained. Additionally, our business may also be impacted by other trade restrictions that may be imposed by the United States, China, or other countries. Restrictions on our ability to sell and ship our products to customers on the Entity List have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Failure to obtain export licenses when required or restrictions on trade imposed by the United States or other countries could harm our business by rendering us unable to sell or ship products and transfer our technology outside of the United States or across borders. Although we have implemented risk-based policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to comply with all applicable trade restrictions, we and governmental authorities have had and may in the future have reason to inquire into particular sales. Specifically, in February 2021, we received an administrative subpoena from BIS requesting the production of records in connection with certain sales to our customers in China. In November 2023, we received a related subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) that also requested information regarding our business activity in China. We have been and will continue cooperating with BIS and DOJ in responding to the subpoenas and their ongoing reviews. These matters are subject to uncertainties and the outcomes of these and other proceedings that may occur are difficult to predict. The laws and policies of the United States and other countries in this area are evolving and changing, and we have experienced and may continue to experience challenges in complying with new rules as they become effective. The application and interpretation of these laws and policies can also be uncertain and change over time, and we may need to adjust our policies and procedures accordingly. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws and policies could have negative consequences, including significant legal costs, government investigations, penalties, denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, reputation and financial condition. In addition to export control laws, our global operations are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, tax, corporate governance, financial and other disclosures, competition, antitrust, data privacy, data protection and employment. These laws and regulations are complex and may have differing or conflicting legal standards, making compliance difficult and costly, and changes to these laws may require us to make significant changes to our business operations that may adversely affect our business overall. The policies and procedures we have implemented to assist our compliance with these laws and regulations do not provide complete assurance that our employees, contractors, agents or partners will not violate such laws and regulations. Any violation individually or in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our operations, reputation and financial condition. As we continue to acquire and invest in companies or technologies, we may not realize the expected business or financial benefits and these acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results and the market value of our common stock. As part of our business strategy, we invest in, and acquire complementary businesses, joint ventures, services and technologies and IP rights, some of which may be material to our financial condition and operating results. We continue to engage in investments and acquisitions and evaluate such opportunities and expect to continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to find and identify desirable investment or acquisition targets, and we may not be successful in entering into an agreement with any particular target. Acquisitions and other transactions, arrangements and investments involve numerous risks and potential operating difficulties and expenditures, including: the failure to realize, or a delay in realizing, anticipated benefits or synergies, including as a result of any conditions placed upon approvals from governmental authorities; the failure to complete transactions on a timely basis or at all, including due to a failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, or at all, from governmental authorities; potential identified or unknown security vulnerabilities in acquired companies, technologies or products that expose us to additional security risks or delay our ability to integrate them into our organization and offerings; brand or reputational harm; in the case of acquisitions with large greenhouse gas emissions, the failure or perceived failure to achieve our publicly disclosed greenhouse gas emissions reduction target; the failure to understand, compete and operate effectively in markets where we have limited experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; the failure to integrate, combine or manage acquired products, infrastructure, technologies and businesses effectively or to obtain customer acceptance of multiple platforms on a temporary or permanent basis; difficulties in integrating and assimilating acquired employees, which may lead to retention risk with respect to both acquired and existing employees; the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; diversion of financial resources and managements attention from day-to-day business; 14 Table of Contents overlapping customers and product sets that impact our ability to maintain revenue at historical rates; unanticipated costs or assumed liabilities, including those related to an acquired company's disclosure