Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Functional Verification Our Functional Verification offerings are comprised of two major categories of offerings: Logic Verification and System Design and Verification. Logic Verification Our Logic Verification offering consists of the property checking and simulation and environment capabilities within the Incisive functional verification platform. This offering enables our customers to employ enterprise-level verification process automation, including verification planning, process tracking and management that allow the coordination of verification activities across multiple teams and various specialists. Our Logic Verification offering includes: Planning and management that automates and guides the verification process, from specifications to metric-driven functional closure; Testbench and simulation that offer Open Verification Methodology, or OVM, multi-language testbench and transaction-level support, assertion checking, low-power and mixed-signal simulation, analysis and a debug environment; Formal verification, providing a mathematical method for verifying register transfer level, or RTL, functional correctness with assertions before a testbench simulation; A verification intellectual property, or IP, portfolio that enables engineers to improve productivity while reducing risks associated with standard protocol development and compliance and provides a broad catalog of standard verification IP equipped with a Compliance Management System allowing metric-driven closure; Palladium and Xtreme series of emulation and acceleration hardware; SoC Functional Verification Kit, capturing reference examples of verification flows and reduces customers language, technology and methodology adoption risks; and Tailored verification services for methodology adoption, environment migration and educational training that provide customized means of addressing customer-specific challenges. Our Logic Verification offering also provides methodology-driven and multi-product flows that allow customers to incrementally adopt certain aspects of this offering and to address specific challenges. These flows include: Multi-language OVM, enabling productivity and quality gains with reusable and scalable verification environments; Metric-driven verification, enabling schedule predictability with a plan- and metric-driven solution and automated functional verification closure; 3 Table of Contents Assertion-based verification, enabling productivity and quality gains with block and chip verification of functional intent that are captured via assertions; Low power verification, as part of our Low Power Solution, enabling quality and productivity gains associated with the growing need to verify power management logic; and Mixed signal verification, enabling risk reduction via integrated verification of designs with both digital and analog content. System Design and Verification Our System Design and Verification consists of the acceleration/emulation and system-level design capabilities and includes design and verification hardware and software, verification IP services and methodologies that provide customers with system-wide planning and management, design and verification IP reuse automation and system verification. In addition, this offering provides system power exploration, analysis and optimization. Our System Design and Verification offering targets IP and SoC design and verification planners and architects, transaction-level IP developers and SoC and system-level IP verification and validation engineers. Our System Design and Verification offering includes: SoC estimation software that enables chip architects and planners to evaluate the cost, performance and power of the SoC before initiating a design project; System-level verification planning and management that automates and guides the verification process; C-to-Silicon Compiler, providing high-level synthesis with IP reuse automation and architectural analysis and produces RTL micro-architectural designs; Palladium and Xtreme series of emulation and acceleration hardware; Incisive Simulation Analysis, providing support for transaction-level verification, analysis and mixed-language testbench and full RTL verification; Incisive Software eXtension for hardware and software co-verification and co-debug; and Verification IP and SpeedBridge adapters that enable chip architect and planners to improve productivity while reducing risks associated with standard protocol compliance and provide a catalogue of standard protocols. We also offer customers consulting services for verification acceleration and system emulation. Our QuickCycles program allows customers access to our Palladium and Xtreme simulation acceleration and emulation products, either on their secure internet site or remotely over a high-speed, secure network connection. Digital IC Design and Implementation Our Digital IC offerings include two major categories of offerings: Logic Design and Implementation. Logic Design Our Logic Design offering is comprised of equivalency checking, synthesis and test capabilities within the Encounter digital IC design platform and property checking, simulation, and environment capabilities within the Incisive functional verification platform. This offering provides planning, design, verification and test technologies and services to customers across all digital design end markets. Logic Design capabilities are aggregated into solutions that address our customers needs in areas such as power efficiency and advanced process nodes. Our Logic Design offering targets engineers who are tasked with digital chip development planning, functional design, verification, logical implementation and design-for-test, or DFT. Our Logic Design offering includes: Chip Planning System and Incyte Chip Estimator, providing users with the ability to perform technical and cost trade-off analyses in the product planning phase of a project; Low power capability that enables users to maximize energy efficiency of their designs; Engineering change order aware products that provide an automated solution for pre-mask and post-mask management of specification changes; Logic synthesis, enabling simultaneous, multi-objective optimization for key project attributes; 4 Table of Contents Implementation signoff, extending into areas of low power, constraints and design sign-off rule verification, to provide more accurate results; and DFT, automatic test pattern generation and failure diagnosis technologies integrated in the design process, to address the challenges of complex SoC development. Implementation Our Implementation offering is comprised of a range of the Encounter digital IC design platform capabilities. The Implementation offering includes timing analysis, signal integrity and place and route capabilities within the Encounter digital IC design platform. This offering enables customers to create a physical representation of logic models, analyze electrical and physical characteristics of a design and prepare a design for manufacturing. Our Implementation offering includes: Silicon virtual prototyping with automated floorplan synthesis and ranking capabilities, enabling designers to explore the design space and plan the complete implementation of a chip before committing to a specific implementation strategy; Global RTL and physical synthesis that enables customers to improve the quality of silicon; Embedded sign-off-qualified variation analysis and optimization across the design flow, providing a more predictable design closure at advanced nodes; Integrated diagnostic tools for rapid global timing, clock and power analysis and debugging; and Interoperability with our Custom IC Design offering to enable implementation of mixed-signal ICs. Our Encounter L, XL and GXL offerings also provide designers with the ability to chose the appropriate products that match their needs, ranging from smaller designs on mature technologies to the largest designs on the most advanced process nodes. Custom IC Design and Verification Our Custom IC Design and Verification offering is comprised of a range of Virtuoso custom design platform capabilities and certain DFM products capabilities. The Custom IC Design and Verification offering includes the environment, IC layout and simulation capabilities within the Virtuoso custom design platform. This offering provides designers with an integrated flow for design creation, validation and implementation of silicon-accurate analog, custom digital, mixed-signal, memory and RF designs, while ensuring that these designs are ready for manufacturing through integrated DFM capabilities. Our Virtuoso Custom IC Design and Verification offering includes: Reference flows for analog, mixed-signal, RF and analog-digital integration focused on wireless and analog/mixed-signal market segments; Comprehensive specification-driven design environment to analyze designs over a broad set of manufacturing and environmental operating conditions; Schematic-capture support and constraint-driven design techniques to secure and retain a designers intent throughout the design process; Automatic analog circuit sizing and optimization including yield optimization; Multi-mode simulation for digital, analog, mixed-signal and RF designs; and Interactive, assisted or fully automated options for custom layout with advanced floorplanning, chip editing, process node migration and analog/mixed-signal routing technologies. Our Virtuoso L, XL and GXL offerings also provide designers with the ability to choose the appropriate products that match their needs, ranging from simple entry-level component design to the most complex DFM-aware SoC designs. System Interconnect Design Our System Interconnect Design offerings include the following capabilities within the Allegro system interconnect design platform: PCB, IC package, SiP, design management and collaboration. Certain offerings also include the simulation capability within the Virtuoso custom design platform. These offerings enable engineers who 5 Table of Contents are responsible for the capture, layout and analysis of advanced PCB and IC packages to design high-performance electronic products across the domains of IC, IC package and PCB, to increase functional density and to manage design complexity while reducing cost and time to market. Our System Interconnect Design offering includes: Constraint-driven methodology from advanced design capture and authoring, signal integrity and power delivery optimization and analysis through detailed physical implementation and DFM preparation; Optimized system level interconnect the electronic signal and power paths across PCBs, IC Packages and ICs through a co-design methodology to reduce hardware costs and the duration of design projects; Embedded support for silicon input/output transceiver algorithmic modeling (using Input / Output Buffer Information Specification 5.0); Algorithmic modeling, enabling characterization of the latest serial interface protocols that are being adopted across all markets; Million-bit channel analysis, allowing design engineers to verify standards compliance during the design process; SiP RF Layout and RF Architect, including a methodology for integrating multiple levels of silicon and discrete functionality in a single performance, cost and size-optimized IC Package; and SiP integration with our Encounter Digital IC and Virtuoso Custom IC offerings to co-design, streamline and optimize IC Package design. Our System Interconnect Design offerings are available as a set of scalable capability-tiered products, including L, XL and GXL, depending on the requirements of our customers. For the mainstream PCB customers, where individual or small team productivity is a focus, we provide the OrCAD family of offerings that is marketed worldwide through a network of resellers. Design for Manufacturing With the advent of silicon manufacturing technologies at geometries of 65 nanometer and below, our customers are increasingly concerned about manufacturability of their designs. The physical layout of each IC requires detailed analysis and optimization to ensure that the design can be manufactured in volume while performing as expected. Our strategy is to integrate DFM awareness into our core design platforms of Encounter Digital IC and Virtuoso Custom IC. Some of our DFM capabilities include: Parasitic extraction products that take a physical representation of a design and determine the electrical properties to enable additional simulation and timing analysis; On-chip power distribution for digital, analog and SoC designs; Manufacturing design rule checks to ensure the proposed design meets foundry process requirements; and Analytical and design tools for physical and electrical effects, process proximity correction, and yield / failure analysis diagnostics. Our primary focus in DFM is to address manufacturing effects as early in the product development process as possible. As a result, we are enhancing the DFM awareness of our core Encounter Digital IC and Virtuoso Custom IC product offerings. Where upstream integration is not possible, we offer certain stand-alone DFM products. Third Party Programs and Initiatives In addition to our products, many customers use internally-developed design tools or design tools provided by other EDA companies, as well as IP available from multiple suppliers. We support the use of third-party design products and IP through vehicles such as our Connections program and through our participation in the OpenAccess Coalition, the Power Forward Initiative and other programs and initiatives. We also contribute to the development and deployment of EDA industry standards. 6 Table of Contents Maintenance Customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide our customers with technical support to facilitate their use of our software and hardware solutions. We offer maintenance to our customers as an integral, non-cancelable component of our subscription license agreements, as a component of our term license agreements subject to annual renewal, or as a separate agreement subject to annual renewal for our perpetual license customers. Our Maintenance revenue was $345.3 million, or 40% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2009, $388.5 million, or 37% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2008, and $385.2 million, or 24% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2007. For additional description of our Maintenance revenue, see the discussion under the heading Results of Operations under Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Services We offer a number of fee-based services, including engineering and education services. These services may be sold separately or sold and performed in conjunction with the sale, lease or license of our products. Our Services revenue was $106.5 million, or 13% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2009, $133.5 million, or 13% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2008, and $125.8 million, or 8% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2007. For additional description of our Services revenue, see the discussion under the heading Results of Operations under Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Engineering Services We offer engineering services to aid our customers with the design of complex ICs and the implementation of key design capabilities, including low power, IC packaging and board design, mixed-signal design, functional verification, digital implementation, analog/mixed-signal and system-level. The customers for these services primarily consist of semiconductor and systems companies developing products for the consumer, communications, military and aerospace and computing markets. These ICs range from digital SoCs, analog and RF designs to complex mixed-signal ICs. We offer engineering capabilities to assist customers from product concept to volume manufacturing. We leverage our experience and knowledge of design techniques, our products, leading practices and different design environments to improve the productivity of our own and our customers engineering teams. Depending on the customers projects and needs, we work with customers using outsourcing, consultative and collaborative offerings. Our Virtual Computer-Aided Design offering enables our engineering teams at one or more of our locations to collaborate with our customers teams located elsewhere in the world during the course of their design and engineering projects through a secure network infrastructure. We also make our design IP portfolio available to customers as part of our technology and services solutions. These reusable design and methodology components enable us to efficiently deliver our services and allow our customers to reduce the design complexity and time to market when developing complex SoCs. Through collaboration with our customers, we are able to design advanced ICs and gain direct and early visibility to industry design issues that may not be addressed adequately by todays EDA technologies. This enables us to target and accelerate the development of new software technology and products to satisfy current and future design requirements. Education Services Our education services offerings can be customized and include training programs that are conducted via the internet or in a classroom setting. The content of these offerings ranges from the latest IC design techniques to methodologies for using the most recent features of our EDA products. The primary focus of education services is to accelerate our customers path to productivity in the use of our products. 7 Table of Contents Marketing and Sales We generally market our products and provide maintenance and services to existing and prospective customers through a direct sales force consisting of sales people and applications engineers. Applications engineers provide technical pre-sales and post-sales support for software products. Due to the complexity of many of our EDA products and the electronic design process, the sales cycle is generally long, requiring three to six months or more. During the sales cycle, our direct sales force generally provides technical presentations, product demonstrations and support for on-site customer evaluation of our solutions. We also use traditional marketing approaches to promote our products and services, including advertising, direct mail, trade shows, public relations and the internet. We selectively utilize value added resellers to broaden our reach and reduce cost of sales. All OrCAD and selected Incisive products are primarily marketed through these channels. With respect to international sales, we generally market and support our products and services through our subsidiaries. We also use a third-party distributor to sell our products and services to certain customers in Japan. Software Licensing Arrangements We sell software using three license types: subscription, term and perpetual. Customers who prefer to license technology for a specified, limited period of time will choose either a subscription or term license, and customers who prefer to have the right to use the technology continuously without time restriction will choose a perpetual license. Customers who desire to use new technology during the life of the contract will select a subscription license, which allows them limited access to unspecified new technology on a when-and-if-available basis, as opposed to a term or perpetual license, which does not include rights to use new technology. Payment terms for subscription and term licenses generally provide for payments to be made in installments over the license period and payment terms for perpetual licenses generally are net 30 days. We offer a delivery mechanism for term and subscription licenses called eDA Cards. eDA cards have an overall face value amount that customers draw down against as they select specific products that are priced based on the particular duration of use the customer desires. The selection and licensing of the specific products is accomplished through an automated on-line system. The card expires when all of the face value is consumed, or on the pre-determined expiration date, whichever comes first. There are two types of eDA Cards. An eDA Gold Card is a term license that enables a customer to access a predetermined list of existing products. An eDA Platinum Card is a subscription license that enables a customer to access existing and new technology. For a further description of our license agreements, revenue recognition policies and results of operations, please refer to the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates under Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Backlog Our backlog as of January 2, 2010 was approximately $1.6 billion, as compared to approximately $1.8 billion as of January 3, 2009. Backlog consists of revenue to be recognized in fiscal periods after January 2, 2010 from a variety of license types, which generally include, but are not limited to: Subscription licenses for software products; Sale or lease of hardware; Maintenance contracts on hardware and software products; Orders for hardware and software products sold on perpetual and term licenses on which customers have delivery dates after January 2, 2010; Licenses with payments that are outside our customary terms; and The undelivered portion of engineering services contracts. The substantial majority of our backlog is generated by our product and maintenance businesses because customer licenses generally include both product and maintenance components. Historically, we have not experienced significant cancellations of our contracts with customers. However, we occasionally reschedule the required completion dates of engineering services contracts, deferring revenue recognition under those contracts beyond the original anticipated completion date. Changes in customer license types or payment terms also can 8 Table of Contents impact the timing of revenue recognition. We currently expect approximately 80% of our fiscal 2010 revenue to come from our backlog as of January 2, 2010. Revenue Seasonality Historically, revenue has been lowest in our first quarter and highest in our fourth quarter, with a material decline between the fourth quarter of one year and the first quarter of the following year. However, our license mix has changed such that a substantial proportion of licenses require ratable revenue recognition. Although we still expect the first quarter to remain our lowest quarter for revenue within a fiscal year, we do not expect the decrease in revenue from the fourth quarter of one year to the first quarter of the following year to be as significant as it has been historically. Research and Development Our investment in research and development was $354.7 million during fiscal 2009, $457.9 million during fiscal 2008 and $494.0 million during fiscal 2007. The primary areas of our research and development include SoC design, the design of silicon devices in the nanometer range, high-performance IC packaging, SiP and PCB design, system-level modeling and verification, high-performance logic verification technology and hardware/software co-verification. The electronics industry combines rapid innovation with rapidly increasing design and manufacturing complexity, so we make significant investments in enhancing our current products, as well as creating new products and technologies and integrating those products and technologies together into segmented solutions. Our future performance depends largely on our ability to maintain and enhance our current product development and commercialization, to develop, acquire or operate with new products from third parties, and to develop solutions that meet increasingly demanding productivity, quality, predictability and cost requirements on a schedule that keeps pace with our customers technical developments and industry standards. Manufacturing and Software Distribution We perform final assembly and testing of our hardware verification, acceleration and emulation products at our headquarters in San Jose, California. Subcontractors manufacture all major subassemblies, including all individual PCBs and custom ICs, and supply them for qualification and testing before their incorporation into the assembled product. Software and documentation are primarily distributed to customers by secure electronic delivery or on DVD. Proprietary Technology Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new licenses or renew existing licenses for third party software and other intellectual property in the future. As part of performing engineering services for customers, our engineering services business uses certain software and other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including that of our competitors. Competition We compete in the EDA industry for products and maintenance primarily with three companies: Synopsys, Inc., Mentor Graphics Corporation and Magma Design Automation, Inc. We also compete with numerous smaller EDA companies, with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics design and consulting companies. We generally compete on the basis of product quality, product features, level of integration or compatibility with other tools, price, payment terms and maintenance offerings. 9 Table of Contents Our maintenance business flows directly from our product business. The competitive issues associated with our maintenance business are substantially similar to those for our product business in that every maintenance contract is the direct result of a product contract, and once we have entered into a product contract, maintenance is generally purchased by the customer to ensure access to bug fixes and service releases, as and when they are made available, and other continued support. Certain competitive factors in the engineering services business as described herein differ from those of the products and maintenance businesses. While we do compete with other EDA companies in the engineering services business, our principal competitors are independent engineering service businesses. These companies vary greatly in focus, geographic location, capability, cost structure and pricing. In addition, manufacturers of electronic devices may be reluctant to purchase services from independent vendors, including us, because they wish to promote their own internal design departments. We compete with these companies by focusing on the design of complex analog, digital and mixed-signal ICs and SoCs. It is our strategy to use engineering services as a differentiator to further promote our products and maintenance businesses. International Operations We have 56 sales offices, design centers and research and development facilities, approximately half of which are located outside of the United States. We consider customer sales and support requirements, the availability of a skilled workforce, and costs and efficiencies, among other relative benefits, when determining what operations to locate internationally. For additional information regarding our international operations, see the discussion under the heading The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and other risks to our international operations may seriously harm our financial condition under Item 1A, Risk Factors and Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Employees As of January 2, 2010, we employed approximately 4,400 individuals, with approximately 1,800 in sales, services, marketing, support and manufacturing activities, approximately 2,000 in product research and development and approximately 600 in management, administration and finance. None of our employees is represented by a labor union and we have experienced no work stoppages. We believe that our employee relations are good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table provides information regarding our executive officers as of February 26, 2010: Name Age Positions and Offices Lip-Bu Tan 50 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director John J. Bruggeman II 48 Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Thomas A. Cooley 48 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations James J. Cowie 45 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Chi-Ping Hsu 54 Senior Vice President, Research and Development Charlie Huang 46 Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer Nimish H. Modi 47 Senior Vice President, Research and Development Kevin S. Palatnik 52 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Our executive officers are appointed by the Board of Directors and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. LIP-BU TAN has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Cadence since January 2009. Mr. Tan has been a member of the Cadence Board of Directors since February 2004 and serves as a member of the Technology Committee of the Cadence Board of Directors. In 1987, Mr. Tan founded Walden International, an international venture capital firm, and since that time has served as its Chairman. Mr. Tan also serves as a director of Flextronics International Ltd., Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation and SINA Corporation. 10 Table of Contents JOHN J. BRUGGEMAN II has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Cadence since August 2009. Before joining Cadence, from February 2004 to July 2009, Mr. Bruggeman served as Chief Marketing Officer at Wind River Systems, Inc., an embedded software company that was acquired by Intel Corporation in July 2009. From May 2002 to January 2004, Mr. Bruggeman was Vice President of Marketing at Mercury Interactive Corporation, a business technology optimization company. THOMAS A. COOLEY has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations of Cadence since October 2008. From March 1995 to October 2008, Mr. Cooley held several sales related positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President of Sales for North America, Europe, Middle East, Africa, or EMEA, and India. JAMES J. COWIE has served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Cadence since April 2008 and Secretary of Cadence since May 2008. From August 2000 to March 2008, Mr. Cowie held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President Business Development, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. CHI-PING HSU has served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since November 2008. From April 2003 to November 2008, Mr. Hsu held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President, IC Digital and Power Forward. Before joining Cadence, Mr. Hsu served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Get2Chip Inc., a supplier of high-performance system-on-chip synthesis that was acquired by Cadence in April 2003. CHARLIE HUANG has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of Cadence since January 2009. From April 2007 to January 2009, Mr. Huang served as Senior Vice President Business Development of Cadence. Mr. Huang was General Partner at Telos Venture Partners, a Cadence related venture capital firm, from 2004 to 2005. From 2001 to March 2007, Mr. Huang held several positions at Cadence related to business development. Before joining Cadence, Mr. Huang co-founded and was Chief Executive Officer of CadMOS Design Technology, Inc., an EDA company that was acquired by Cadence in 2001. NIMISH H. MODI has served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since November 2008. From August 2006 to November 2008, Mr. Modi served as Corporate Vice President, Front-End Design. Before joining Cadence, from May 1988 to August 2006, Mr. Modi held several positions at Intel Corporation, a semiconductor company, most recently as Vice President in the Enterprise Platforms Group. KEVIN S. PALATNIK has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cadence since April 2008. From January 2002 to April 2008, Mr. Palatnik served in a number of positions at Cadence, including as Corporate Vice President, Technical Field Operations and Corporate Vice President, Field Operations Finance, and most recently as Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller. Before joining Cadence, Mr. Palatnik held several engineering and senior financial positions at International Business Machines Corporation, a computer hardware and software company. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. Described below are what we believe to be the material risks that we face. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to the cyclical nature of the integrated circuit and electronics systems industries, and any downturn in these industries may reduce our orders and revenue. Purchases of our products and services are dependent upon the commencement of new design projects by IC manufacturers and electronics systems companies. The IC and electronics systems industries are cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The IC and electronics systems industries experienced significant challenges in 2008 and 2009. The IC and electronic systems industries have also experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both these industries and their customers products. As in the past, the economic downturn in 2008 and 2009 was characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Although estimates project moderate growth for the semiconductor industry in 2010, we believe that increased spending on EDA and other tools may grow more slowly than the semiconductor industry as a whole in 2010. The economic downturn in the industries we serve has contributed to the reduction in our revenue in the past and could continue to adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have experienced varied operating results, and our operating results for any particular fiscal period are affected by the timing of significant orders for our software products, fluctuations in customer preferences for license types and the timing of revenue recognition under those license types. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, varied operating results. In particular, we incurred net losses during fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, and we expect to incur a net loss during fiscal 2010. Various factors affect our operating results and some of them are not within our control. Our operating results for any period are affected by the timing of certain orders for our software products. Our operating results are also affected by the mix of license types executed in any given period. We license software using three different license types: subscription, term and perpetual. Product revenue associated with term and perpetual licenses is generally recognized at the beginning of the license period, whereas product revenue associated with subscription licenses is recognized over multiple periods during the term of the license. Revenue may also be deferred under term and perpetual licenses until payments become due and payable from customers with nonlinear payment terms or as cash is collected from customers with lower credit ratings. In addition, revenue is impacted by the timing of license renewals, the extent to which contracts contain flexible payment terms, changes in existing contractual arrangements with customers and the mix of license types (i.e., perpetual, term or subscription) for existing customers. These changes could have the effect of accelerating or delaying the recognition of revenue from the timing of recognition under the original contract. Our license mix has changed such that a substantial proportion of licenses require ratable revenue recognition, and we expect the change in license mix, combined with the slow growth in spending by our customers in the semiconductor sector, may make it difficult for us to increase our revenue. We plan operating expense levels primarily based on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. In addition, revenue levels are harder to forecast in a difficult economic environment. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these expenses in response to short-term business changes. Generally, the majority of our contracts are executed in the final few weeks of a fiscal quarter. This makes it difficult to estimate with accuracy how much business will be executed before the end of each fiscal quarter. Due to 12 Table of Contents the volume or complexity of transactions that we review at the very end of the quarter, or due to operational matters regarding particular agreements, we may not finish processing or ship products under some contracts that have been signed during that fiscal quarter, which means that the associated revenue cannot be recognized in that particular period. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see Critical Accounting Estimates under Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. You should not view our historical results of operations as reliable indicators of our future performance. If our revenue, operating results or business outlook for future periods fall short of the levels expected by securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our operating results and revenue could be adversely affected by customer payment delays, customer bankruptcies and defaults or modifications of licenses or supplier modifications. As a result of the challenging economic environment, our customers, who are primarily concentrated in the semiconductor sector, have experienced and may continue to experience adverse changes in their business and, as a result, may delay or default on their payment obligations, file for bankruptcy or modify or cancel plans to license our products, and our suppliers may significantly and quickly increase their prices or reduce their output. If our customers are not successful in generating sufficient cash or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us, although these obligations are generally not cancelable. Our customers inability to fulfill payment obligations may adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. Additionally, our customers may seek to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments. Payment defaults by our customers or significant reductions in existing contractual commitments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Because of the high volatility driving material fluctuations in asset prices, the capital and credit markets have contracted, and if we were to seek funding from the capital or credit markets in response to any material level of customer defaults, we may not be able to secure funding on terms acceptable to us or at all, which, may have a material negative impact on our business. Our failure to respond quickly to technological developments could make our products uncompetitive and obsolete. The industries in which we compete experience rapid technology developments, changes in industry standards and customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and improvements. Currently, the industries we serve are experiencing the following trends: Migration to nanometer design when the size of process features and features, such as wires, transistors and contacts on ICs, continuously shrink due to the ongoing advances in the semiconductor manufacturing processes represents a major challenge for participants in the semiconductor industry, from IC design and design automation to design of manufacturing equipment and the manufacturing process itself. Shrinkage of transistor length to such proportions is challenging the industry in the application of more complex physics and chemistry that is needed to realize advanced silicon devices. For EDA tools, models of each components electrical properties and behavior become more complex as do requisite analysis, design and verification capabilities. Novel design tools and methodologies must be invented quickly to remain competitive in the design of electronics in the smallest nanometer ranges. The challenges of nanometer design are leading some customers to work with older, less risky manufacturing processes that may reduce their need to upgrade or enhance their EDA products and design flows. The ability to design SoCs increases the complexity of managing a design that, at the lowest level, is represented by billions of shapes on the fabrication mask. In addition, SoCs typically incorporate 13 Table of Contents microprocessors and digital signal processors that are programmed with software, requiring simultaneous design of the IC and the related software embedded on the IC. With the availability of seemingly endless gate capacity, there is an increase in design reuse, or the combining of off-the-shelf design IP with custom logic to create ICs. The unavailability of high-quality design IP that can be reliably incorporated into a customers design with our IC implementation products and services could reduce demand for our products and services. Increased technological capability of the Field-Programmable Gate Array, which is a programmable logic chip, creates an alternative to IC implementation for some electronics companies. This could reduce demand for our IC implementation products and services. A growing number of low-cost engineering services businesses could reduce the need for some IC companies to invest in EDA products. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these trends, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we must develop or acquire new products and improve our existing products and processes on a schedule that keeps pace with technological developments and the requirements for products addressing a broad spectrum of designers and designer expertise in our industries. We must also be able to support a range of changing computer software, hardware platforms and customer preferences. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in this effort. Our stock price has been subject to significant fluctuations, and may continue to be subject to fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may fluctuate or decline in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: Announcements of our quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts that fail to meet or are inconsistent with earlier projections or the expectations of our securities analysts or investors; Changes in our orders, revenue or earnings estimates; Announcements of a restructuring plan; Changes in management; A gain or loss of a significant customer or market segment share; Announcements of new products or acquisitions of new technologies by us, our competitors or our customers; and Market conditions in the IC, electronics systems and semiconductor industries. In addition, equity markets in general, and technology companies equities in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Such price and volume fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. Litigation could adversely affect our financial condition or operations. We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in various disputes and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contracts, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. We are also currently engaged in a consolidated securities class action lawsuit and shareholder derivative lawsuits. For information regarding the litigation matters in which we are currently engaged, please refer to the discussion under Item 1, Legal Proceedings. We cannot provide any assurances that the final outcome of these lawsuits or any other proceedings that may arise in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Litigation can be time-consuming and expensive and could divert managements time and attention from our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. 14 Table of Contents Our future revenue is dependent in part upon our installed customer base continuing to license or buy additional products, renew maintenance agreements and purchase additional services. Our installed customer base has traditionally generated additional new license, service and maintenance revenues. In future periods, customers may not necessarily license or buy additional products or contract for additional services or maintenance. In some cases, maintenance is renewable annually at a customers option, and there are no mandatory payment obligations or obligations to license additional software. If our customers decide not to renew their maintenance agreements or license additional products or contract for additional services, or if they reduce the scope of the maintenance agreements, our revenue could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our customers, many of which are large semiconductor companies, often have significant bargaining power in negotiations with us. Mergers or acquisitions of our customers can reduce the total level of purchases of our software and services, and in some cases, increase customers bargaining power in negotiations with their suppliers, including us. We depend upon our management team and key employees, and our failure to attract, train, motivate and retain management and key employees may make us less competitive in our industries and therefore harm our results of operations. Our business depends upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees, including key development personnel. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring and departure of executive officers, and as a result, we may experience disruption to our business that may harm our operating results and our relationships with our employees, customers and suppliers may be adversely affected. Competition for highly skilled executive officers and employees can be intense, particularly in geographic areas recognized as high technology centers such as the Silicon Valley area, where our principal offices are located, and the other locations where we maintain facilities. To attract, retain and motivate individuals with the requisite expertise, we may be required to grant large numbers of stock options or other stock-based incentive awards, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders and increase compensation expense, and pay significant base salaries and cash bonuses, which could harm our operating results. The high cost of training new employees, not fully utilizing these employees, or losing trained employees to competing employers could also reduce our operating margins and harm our business or operating results. In addition, the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules require stockholder approval for new equity compensation plans and significant amendments to existing equity compensation plans, including increases in shares available for issuance under such plans, and prohibit NASDAQ member organizations from giving a proxy to vote on equity compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions. These regulations could make it more difficult for us to grant equity compensation to employees in the future. To the extent that these regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant equity compensation to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We may not be able to effectively implement our restructuring plans, and our restructuring plans may not result in the expected benefits we have anticipated, possibly having a negative affect on our future operating results. During fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009, we initiated restructuring plans in an effort to decrease costs by reducing our workforce and by consolidating facilities. We may not be able to successfully complete and realize the expected benefits of our restructuring plans, such as improvements in operating margins and cash flows, in the restructuring periods contemplated. The restructuring plans have involved and may continue to involve higher costs or a longer timetable than we currently anticipate or may fail to improve our operating results as we anticipate. Our inability to realize these benefits may result in an inefficient business structure that could negatively impact our results of operations. Our restructuring plans have caused us and will cause us to incur substantial costs related to severance and other employee-related costs. Our restructuring plans may also subject us to litigation risks and expenses. In addition, our restructuring plans may have other consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce, a negative impact on employee morale or our ability to attract highly skilled employees and our competitors may seek to gain a competitive advantage over us. The restructuring plans could also cause our 15 Table of Contents remaining employees to leave or result in reduced productivity by our employees, and, in turn, this may affect our revenue and other operating results in the future. We may not receive significant revenue from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing EDA technology and integrating acquired technology into existing platforms is expensive, and these investments often require a long time to generate returns. Our strategy involves significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain and improve our competitive position. However, we cannot predict that we will receive significant, if any, revenue from these investments. The competition in our industries is substantial and we may not be able to continue to successfully compete in our industries. The EDA industry and the commercial electronics engineering services industry are highly competitive. If we fail to compete successfully in these industries, it could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. To compete in these industries, we must identify and develop or acquire innovative and cost-competitive EDA products, integrate them into platforms and market them in a timely manner. We must also gain industry acceptance for our engineering services and offer better strategic concepts, technical solutions, prices and response time, or a combination of these factors, than those of our competitors and the internal design departments of electronics manufacturers. We may not be able to compete successfully in these industries. Factors that could affect our ability to succeed include: The development by others of competitive EDA products or platforms and engineering services, possibly resulting in a shift of customer preferences away from our products and services and significantly decrease revenue; Decisions by electronics manufacturers to perform engineering services internally, rather than purchase these services from outside vendors due to budget constraints or excess engineering capacity; The challenges of developing (or acquiring externally-developed) technology solutions that are adequate and competitive in meeting the requirements of next-generation design challenges; The significant number of current and potential competitors in the EDA industry and the low cost of entry; Intense competition to attract acquisition targets, possibly making it more difficult for us to acquire companies or technologies at an acceptable price or at all; and The combination of or collaboration among many EDA companies to deliver more comprehensive offerings than they could individually. We compete in the EDA products market with Synopsys, Inc., Magma Design Automation, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation. We also compete with numerous smaller EDA companies, with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics design and consulting companies. Manufacturers of electronic devices may be reluctant to purchase engineering services from independent vendors such as us because they wish to promote their own internal design departments. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. The highly competitive markets in which we compete can put pressure on us to reduce the prices of our products. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products in an effort to recapture or gain market segment share or to sell other software or hardware products, we may then need to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully. Any such changes would be likely to reduce our profit margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Any substantial changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause sales and software license revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, 16 Table of Contents significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for our products. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the number of sales or with lower spending, then the reduced license revenues resulting from lower prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses and may not realize the expected benefits of these acquisitions. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses in the future. While we expect to carefully analyze each potential acquisition before committing to the transaction, we may not consummate any particular transaction, but may nonetheless incur significant costs, or if a transaction is consummated, we may not be able to integrate and manage acquired products and businesses effectively. In addition, acquisitions involve a number of risks. If any of the following events occurs when we acquire another business, it could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition: Difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit; The substantial diversion of managements attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating these transactions and integrating an acquired business; The discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of unanticipated liabilities assumed from the acquired business or of assets acquired, such that we cannot realize the anticipated value of the acquisition; The failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; The failure to retain key employees of the acquired business; Difficulties related to integrating the products of an acquired business in, for example, distribution, engineering and customer support areas; Unanticipated costs; Customer dissatisfaction with existing license agreements with us, possibly dissuading them from licensing or buying products acquired by us after the effective date of the license; and The failure to understand and compete effectively in markets where we have limited experience. In a number of our previously completed acquisitions, we have agreed to make future payments, either in the form of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments, or earnouts, based on the performance of the acquired businesses or the employees who joined us with the acquired businesses. We may use earnouts for acquisitions in the future. The performance goals pursuant to which these future payments may be made generally relate to achievement by the acquired business or the employees who joined us with the acquired business of certain specified orders, revenue, run rate, product proliferation, product development or employee retention goals during a specified period following completion of the applicable acquisition. Future acquisitions may involve issuances of stock as full or partial payment of the purchase price for the acquired business, grants of incentive stock or options to employees of the acquired businesses (which may be dilutive to existing stockholders), expenditure of substantial cash resources or the incurrence of material amounts of debt. The specific performance goal levels and amounts and timing of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments vary with each acquisition. While we expect to derive value from an acquisition in excess of such contingent payment obligations, our strategy may change and we may be required to make certain contingent payments without deriving the anticipated value. We rely on our proprietary technology, as well as software and other intellectual property rights licensed to us by third parties, and we cannot assure you that the precautions taken to protect our rights will be adequate or that we will continue to be able to adequately secure such intellectual property rights from third parties. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Despite the precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, third parties have tried in the past, and may try in the future, to challenge, invalidate or circumvent these safeguards. The rights granted under our patents or attendant to our other intellectual property may not provide us with any competitive advantages. Patents may not be issued on any of our pending applications and our issued patents may not be 17 Table of Contents sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent as applicable law protects these rights in the United States. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. Many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new or renew existing licenses for such software and other intellectual property in the future. Our engineering services business holds licenses to certain software and other intellectual property owned by third parties, including that of our competitors. Our failure to obtain software or other intellectual property licenses or other intellectual property rights that is necessary or helpful for our business on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation over these licenses or rights, could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We could lose key technology or suffer serious harm to our business because of the infringement of our intellectual property rights by third parties or because of our infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. There are numerous patents in the EDA industry and new patents are being issued at a rapid rate. It is not always practicable to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes the patent rights of others. As a result, from time to time, we may be compelled to respond to or prosecute intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights or defend a customers rights. Intellectual property infringement claims, regardless of merit, could consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation, or cause product shipment delays, all of which could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. In settling these claims, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not have terms favorable to us. Being compelled to enter into a license agreement with unfavorable terms could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Any potential intellectual property litigation could compel us to do one or more of the following: Pay damages (including the potential for treble damages), license fees or royalties (including royalties for past periods) to the party claiming infringement; Stop licensing products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property; Obtain a license from the owner of the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or Redesign the challenged technology, which could be time-consuming and costly, or not be accomplished. If we were compelled to take any of these actions, our business or operating results may suffer. If our security measures are breached and an unauthorized party obtains access to customer data, our information systems may be perceived as being unsecure and customers may curtail or stop their use of our products and services. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of customers proprietary information, and breaches of our security measures could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage information systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose existing customers and our ability to obtain new customers. 18 Table of Contents The long sales cycle of our products and services makes the timing of our revenue difficult to predict and may cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly. Generally, we have a long sales cycle that can extend up to six months or longer. The complexity and expense associated with our business generally require a lengthy customer education, evaluation and approval process. Consequently, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management effort and expense to develop potential relationships that do not result in agreements or revenue and may prevent us from pursuing other opportunities. In addition, sales of our products and services have been and may in the future be delayed if customers delay approval or commencement of projects because of: The timing of customers competitive evaluation processes; or Customers budgetary constraints and budget cycles. Long sales cycles for acceleration and emulation hardware products subject us to a number of significant risks over which we have limited control, including insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory, variations in inventory valuation and fluctuations in quarterly operating results. The majority of our contracts are executed in the final few weeks of a fiscal quarter. This makes it difficult to determine with accuracy how much business will be executed in each fiscal quarter. Also, because of the timing of large orders and our customers buying patterns, we may not learn of orders shortfalls, revenue shortfalls, earnings shortfalls or other failures to meet market expectations until late in a fiscal quarter. These factors may cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly, which can cause significant fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles. United States generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. In addition, the SEC has announced a multi-year plan that could ultimately lead to the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by United States issuers in their SEC filings. Any such change could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and other risks to our international operations may seriously harm our financial condition. We have significant operations outside the United States. Our revenue from international operations as a percentage of total revenue was approximately 57% during fiscal 2009, 58% during fiscal 2008 and 54% during fiscal 2007. We expect that revenue from our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. We also transact business in various foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen. The volatility of foreign currencies in certain regions, most notably the Japanese yen, European Union euro, British pound and Indian rupee have had, and may in the future have, a harmful effect on our revenue or operating results. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the United States dollar and the currencies of other countries where we conduct business could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. For example, when a foreign currency declines in value relative to the United States dollar, it takes more of the foreign currency to purchase the same amount of United States dollars than before the change. If we price our products and services in the foreign currency, we receive fewer United States dollars than we did before the change. If we price our products and services in United States dollars, the decrease in value of the local currency results in an increase in the price for our products and services compared to those products of our competitors that are priced in local currency. This could result in our prices being uncompetitive in markets where business is transacted in the local currency. On the other hand, when a foreign currency increases in value relative to the United States dollar, it takes more United States 19 Table of Contents dollars to purchase the same amount of the foreign currency. As we use the foreign currency to pay for payroll costs and other operating expenses in our international operations, this results in an increase in operating expenses. Exposure to foreign currency transaction risk can arise when transactions are conducted in a currency different from the functional currency of one of our subsidiaries. A subsidiarys functional currency is generally the currency in which it primarily conducts its operations, including product pricing, expenses and borrowings. Although we attempt to reduce the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, significant exchange rate movements may hurt our results of operations as expressed in United States dollars. Our international operations may also be subject to other risks, including: The adoption or expansion of government trade restrictions; Limitations on repatriation of earnings; Limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies; Reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; Recessions in foreign economies; Longer collection periods for receivables and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; Difficulties in managing foreign operations; Compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to our worldwide operations; Political and economic instability; Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; Tariffs and other trade barriers; and United States and other governments licensing requirements for exports, which may lengthen the sales cycle or restrict or prohibit the sale or licensing of certain products. We have offices throughout the world, including key research and development facilities outside of the United States. Our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Activities that interfere with our international connectivity, such as computer hacking or the introduction of a virus into our computer systems, could significantly interfere with our business operations. Our operating results could be adversely affected as a result of changes in our effective tax rates. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the following: Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including potential United States and international tax reforms; Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the United States federal and state statutory tax rates; An increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation and impairment of goodwill; Changes in the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets; Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information that results in a recognition, derecognition, or change in measurement of a tax position taken in a prior period; Increases to interest expenses classified in the financial statements as income taxes; New accounting standards or interpretations of such standards; A change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings outside the United States; or Results of tax examinations by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and state and foreign tax authorities. Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. 20 Table of Contents We have received examination reports from the IRS proposing deficiencies in certain of our tax returns, and the outcome of current and future tax examinations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. The IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns, and the IRS is currently examining our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2006 through 2008. In July 2006, the IRS completed its field examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2000 through 2002 and issued a Revenue Agents Report, or RAR, in which the IRS proposed to assess an aggregate tax deficiency for the three-year period of approximately $324.0 million. In November 2006, the IRS revised the proposed aggregate tax deficiency for the three-year period to approximately $318.0 million. The IRS is contesting our qualification for deferred recognition of certain proceeds received from restitution and settlement in connection with litigation during the period. The proposed tax deficiency for this item is approximately $152.0 million. The remaining proposed tax deficiency of approximately $166.0 million is primarily related to proposed adjustments to our transfer pricing arrangements with foreign subsidiaries and to our deductions for foreign trade income. We have filed a timely protest with the IRS and are seeking resolution of the issues through the Appeals Office of the IRS, or the Appeals Office. In May 2009, the IRS completed its field examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2003 through 2005 and issued a RAR, in which the IRS proposed to assess an aggregate deficiency for the three-year period of approximately $94.1 million. In August 2009, the IRS revised the proposed aggregate tax deficiency for the three-year period to approximately $60.7 million. The IRS is contesting our transfer pricing arrangements with our foreign subsidiaries and deductions for foreign trade income. The IRS made similar claims against our transfer pricing arrangements and deductions for foreign trade income in prior examinations and may make similar claims in its examinations of other tax years. We have filed a timely protest with the IRS and will seek resolution of the issues through the Appeals Office. We believe that the proposed IRS adjustments are inconsistent with applicable tax laws and we are vigorously challenging these proposed adjustments. The RARs are not final Statutory Notices of Deficiency, but the IRS imposes interest on the proposed deficiencies until the matters are resolved. Interest is compounded daily at rates published and adjusted quarterly by the IRS and have been between 4% and 10% since 2001. The calculation of our provision (benefit) for income taxes requires us to use significant judgment and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations. In determining the adequacy of our provision (benefit) for income taxes, we regularly assess the potential settlement outcomes resulting from income tax examinations. However, the final outcome of tax examinations, including the total amount payable or the timing of any such payments upon resolution of these issues, cannot be estimated with certainty. In addition, we cannot be certain that such amount will not be materially different from the amount that is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes as a result of a current or a future examination, we may be required to record charges to operations in future periods that could have a material impact on the results of operations, financial position or cash flows in the applicable period or periods. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates could have a material impact on our results of operations. Forecasts of our income tax position and resultant effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of estimating our annual income or loss, the mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as benefits from available deferred tax assets, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and results of tax audits. To forecast our global tax rate, pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction are estimated and tax expense by jurisdiction is calculated based on such estimates. Forecasts of annual income or loss that are near break-even will cause our estimated annual effective tax rate to be particularly sensitive to any changes to our estimates of tax expense. If our estimate of the pre-tax profit and losses, the mix of our profits and losses, our ability to use deferred tax assets, the results of tax audits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimates, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Failure to obtain export licenses could harm our business by rendering us unable to ship products and transfer our technology outside of the United States. We must comply with regulations of the United States and of certain other countries in shipping our software products and transferring our technology outside the United States and to foreign nationals. Although we have not had any significant difficulty complying with such regulations so far, any significant future difficulty in complying could harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Errors or defects in our products and services could expose us to liability and harm our reputation. Our customers use our products and services in designing and developing products that involve a high degree of technological complexity, each of which has its own specifications. Because of the complexity of the systems and products with which we work, some of our products and designs can be adequately tested only when put to full use in the marketplace. As a result, our customers or their end users may discover errors or defects in our software or the systems we design, or the products or systems incorporating our design and intellectual property may not operate as expected. Errors or defects could result in: Loss of customers; Loss of market segment share; Failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; Diversion of development resources to resolve the problem; Loss of or delay in revenue; Increased service costs; and Liability for damages. If we become subject to unfair hiring claims, we could be prevented from hiring needed employees, incur liability for damages and incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. Companies in our industry that lose employees to competitors frequently claim that these competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that the employment of these persons would involve the disclosure or use of trade secrets. These claims could prevent us from hiring employees or cause us to incur liability for damages. We could also incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against these claims, regardless of their merits. Defending ourselves from these claims could also divert the attention of our management away from our operations. Our business is subject to the risk of earthquakes. Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations and certain of our distribution facilities, is located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known to experience seismic activity. If significant seismic activity were to occur, our operations may be interrupted, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. We maintain research and development and other facilities in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the United States, and as a result we may face a higher risk of business interruption from acts of war or terrorism than businesses located only or primarily in the United States. We maintain international research and development and other facilities, some of which are in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the United States. Consequently, we may face a greater risk of business interruption as a result of terrorist acts or military conflicts than businesses located domestically. Furthermore, this potential harm is exacerbated given that damage to or disruptions at our international research and development facilities could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop new or improve existing products as compared to other businesses which may only have sales offices or other less critical operations abroad. We are not insured for losses or interruptions caused by acts of war or terrorism. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Securities and Indebtedness Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness. We have a substantial level of debt. As of January 2, 2010, we had outstanding indebtedness with a principal balance of $500.2 million as follows: $250.0 million related to our 1.375% Convertible Senior Notes Due December 2011, or the 2011 Notes; $250.0 million related to our 1.500% Convertible Senior Notes Due December 2013, or the 2013 Notes and, together with the 2011 Notes, the Convertible Senior Notes; and $0.2 million related to our Zero Coupon Zero Yield Senior Convertible Notes Due 2023, or the 2023 Notes. The level of our current or future indebtedness, among other things, could: Make it difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations on our debt as described below; Make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; Reduce funds available for use in our operations or for developments or acquisitions of new technologies; Make it difficult for us to incur additional debt or obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; Impose operating or financial covenants on us; Limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; or Place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have greater access to capital resources. While we are not currently a party to any loans that would prohibit us from making payment on our outstanding convertible notes, we are not prevented by the terms of the convertible notes from entering into other loans that could prohibit such payments. If we are prohibited from paying our outstanding indebtedness, we could try to obtain the consent of the lenders under those arrangements to make such payment, or we could attempt to refinance the borrowings that contain the restrictions. If we do not obtain the necessary consents or refinance the borrowings, we may be unable to satisfy our outstanding indebtedness. Any such failure would constitute an event of default under our indebtedness, which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of any other indebtedness then outstanding. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under any other indebtedness as well. We have in the past and may in the future attempt to access the capital or credit markets in order to obtain funding to meet particular capital or liquidity needs. The capital and credit markets have contracted and, when compounded by the difficult economic environment and our lower levels of business, we may not be able to secure additional funding on terms acceptable to us or at all, which may adversely impact our business and operating results. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines that permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us and potentially hindering our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and will increase the costs of such registration to us. On the first day of fiscal 2009, we retrospectively adopted new accounting principles as required by the Debt with Conversion and Other Options subtopic of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, and adjusted all periods for which the Convertible Senior Notes were outstanding before the date of adoption. This adoption had an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, particularly with respect to interest expense ratios 23 Table of Contents commonly referred to by lenders, and could potentially hinder our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities. Conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. The terms of the Convertible Senior Notes permit the holders to convert the Convertible Senior Notes into shares of our common stock. The terms of the Convertible Senior Notes stipulate a net share settlement, which upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes requires us to pay the principal amount in cash and the conversion premium, if any, in shares of our common stock based on a daily settlement amount, calculated on a proportionate basis for each day of the relevant 20 trading-day observation period. The initial conversion rate for the Convertible Senior Notes is 47.2813 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes, equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $21.15 per share of our common stock. The conversion price is subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for accrued interest, except in limited circumstances. The conversion of some or all of the Convertible Senior Notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Each $1,000 of principal of the Convertible Senior Notes is initially convertible into 47.2813 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events. Holders of the Convertible Senior Notes may convert their notes at their option on any day before the close of business on the scheduled trading day immediately preceding December 15, 2011 in the case of the 2011 Notes and December 15, 2013 in the case of the 2013 Notes, in each case only if: The price of our common stock reaches $27.50 during certain periods of time specified in the Convertible Senior Notes; Specified corporate transactions occur; or The trading price of the Convertible Senior Notes falls below 98% of the product of (i) the last reported sale price of our common stock and (ii) the conversion rate on that date. From November 2, 2011, in the case of the 2011 Notes, and November 1, 2013, in the case of the 2013 Notes, and until the close of business on the scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date of such Convertible Senior Notes, holders may convert their Convertible Senior Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. As of January 2, 2010, none of the conditions allowing holders of the Convertible Senior Notes to convert had been met. Although the conversion price of the Convertible Senior Notes is currently $21.15 per share, we entered into hedge and separate warrant transactions concurrent with the issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes to reduce the potential dilution from the conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes. However, we cannot guarantee that such hedges and warrant instruments will fully mitigate the dilution. In addition, the existence of the Convertible Senior Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes could depress the price of our common stock. At the option of the holders of the Convertible Senior Notes, under certain circumstances we may be required to repurchase the Convertible Senior Notes in cash or shares of our common stock. Under the terms of the Convertible Senior Notes, we may be required to repurchase the Convertible Senior Notes following a fundamental change in our corporate ownership or structure, such as a change of control in which substantially all of the consideration does not consist of publicly traded securities, prior to maturity of the Convertible Senior Notes. The repurchase price for the Convertible Senior Notes in the event of a fundamental change must be paid solely in cash. This repayment obligation may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company that may otherwise be beneficial to investors. 24 Table of Contents Hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes may affect the value of our common stock. We entered into hedge transactions with various financial institutions, at the time of issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes, with the objective of reducing the potential dilutive effect of issuing our common stock upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes. We also entered into separate warrant transactions with the same financial institutions. In connection with our hedge and warrant transactions, these financial institutions purchased our common stock in secondary market transactions and entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. These entities or their affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Convertible Senior Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, other of our securities or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. Any of these transactions and activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and, as a result, the number of shares and the value of the common stock holders will receive upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes. In addition, subject to movement in the price of our common stock, if the hedge transactions settle in our favor, we could be exposed to credit risk related to the other party with respect to the payment we are owed from such other party. If the financial institutions with which we entered into these hedge transactions were to fail or default, our ability to settle on these transactions could be harmed or delayed. Rating agencies may provide unsolicited ratings on the Convertible Senior Notes that could reduce the market value or liquidity of our common stock. We have not requested a rating of the Convertible Senior Notes from any rating agency and we do not anticipate that the Convertible Senior Notes will be rated. However, if one or more rating agencies independently elects to rate the Convertible Senior Notes and assigns the Convertible Senior Notes a rating lower than the rating expected by investors, or reduces such rating in the future, the market price or liquidity of the Convertible Senior Notes and our common stock could be harmed. Should a decline in the market price of the Convertible Senior Notes result, as compared to the price of our common stock, this may trigger the right of the holders of the Convertible Senior Notes to convert the Convertible Senior Notes into cash and shares of our common stock. Anti-takeover defenses in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions under Delaware law could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that apply to us could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. For example: Our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue, at any time and without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as it may determine. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. However, the rights of holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with a person owning 15% or more of its voting stock, or who is affiliated with the corporation and owned 15% or more of its voting stock at any time within three years prior to the proposed business combination, for a period of three years from the date the person became a 15% owner, unless specified conditions are met. All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and could allow our Board of Directors to resist, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if a proposed transaction were favored by a majority of our independent stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties We own land and buildings at our headquarters located in San Jose, California. We also own buildings in India. As of January 2, 2010, the total square footage of our owned buildings was approximately 950,000. In January 2007, we completed the sale of certain of our land and buildings in San Jose, California. Concurrently with the sale, we leased back from the purchaser all available space in the buildings for two years. The lease term ended in January 2009, and we have vacated the leased buildings. We lease additional facilities in the United States and various other countries. We sublease certain of these facilities where space is not fully utilized or has been involved in restructuring plans. We believe that these facilities, including our newly constructed building located at our headquarters, are adequate for our current needs and that suitable additional or substitute space will be available as needed to accommodate any expansion of our operations. Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we are involved in various disputes and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contracts, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. At least quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount or the range of loss can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based on our judgments using the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation matters and may revise estimates. During fiscal 2008, three complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, all alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of Cadences common stock. We intend to continue to vigorously defend these complaints and any other securities lawsuits that may be filed. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details and the status of these complaints. Also during fiscal 2008, two derivative complaints were filed in Santa Clara County Superior Court. These complaints purport to bring suit derivatively, on behalf of Cadence, against certain of Cadences current and former directors for alleged breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. We are analyzing these derivative complaints and will respond to them appropriately. The parties to these cases have agreed to a temporary stay of the proceedings. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details and the status of these complaints. In light of the preliminary status of these lawsuits, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. While the outcome of these litigation matters cannot be predicted with any certainty, we do not believe that the outcome of any current matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None. 26 Table of Contents PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Common Stock Market Price Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CDNS. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock in the past, and we do not plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As of February 6, 2010, we had approximately 976 registered stockholders and approximately 28,457 beneficial owners of our common stock. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for Cadence common stock for each fiscal quarter in the two-year period ended January 2, 2010: High Low 2009 First Quarter $ 4.64 $ 3.03 Second Quarter 6.40 4.26 Third Quarter 7.55 5.12 Fourth Quarter 8.18 5.60 2008 First Quarter $ 17.18 $ 9.89 Second Quarter 11.73 10.02 Third Quarter 10.64 6.74 Fourth Quarter 6.93 2.42 27 Table of Contents Stockholder Return Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative 5-year total stockholder return on our common stock relative to the cumulative total return of the NASDAQ Composite index and the S&P 400 Information Technology index. The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and in each index (including reinvestment of dividends) was $100 on January 1, 2005 and tracks it through January 2, 2010. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Cadence Design Systems, Inc., The NASDAQ Composite Index, And The S&P 400 Information Technology Index * $100 invested on 1/1/05 in stock or 12/31/04 in index, including reinvestment of dividends. Indexes calculated on month-end basis. Copyright 2010 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. 1/1/05 12/31/05 12/30/06 12/29/07 1/3/09 1/2/10 Cadence Design Systems, Inc. 100.00 122.52 129.69 123.32 27.81 43.37 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 101.33 114.01 123.71 73.11 105.61 S&P 400 Information Technology 100.00 101.70 116.98 121.55 70.30 110.87 The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance 28 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities In February 2008, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase shares of our common stock in the open market with a value of up to $500.0 million in the aggregate. In August 2008, our Board of Directors authorized a new program to repurchase shares of our common stock in the open market with a value of up to an additional $500.0 million in the aggregate. The following table sets forth the repurchases we made during the three months ended January 2, 2010: Maximum Dollar Value of Shares that Total Number of May Yet Shares Purchased Be Purchased Under Total Number Average as Part of Publicly Announced of Shares Price Paid Publicly Announced Plans or Programs(1) Period Purchased(1) Per Share Plans or Programs (In millions) October 4, 2009 November 7, 2009 3,914 $ 7.76 --- $ 854.4 November 8, 2009 December 5, 2009 20,308 $ 5.80 --- $ 854.4 December 6, 2009 January 2, 2010 287,657 $ 6.13 --- $ 854.4 Total 311,879 $ 6.13 --- (1) Shares purchased that were not part of our publicly announced programs represent the surrender of shares of restricted stock awards to pay income taxes due upon vesting, and do not reduce the dollar value that may yet be purchased under our publicly announced repurchase programs. 29 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data Unaudited The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto and the information contained in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. The notes below the table are provided for comparability purposes due to adoptions of recently issued accounting pronouncements on a prospective basis from the date of adoption or to describe significant, non-recurring transactions. Five Fiscal Years Ended January 2, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 As As As Adjusted (4) Adjusted (4) Adjusted (4) (In millions, except per share amounts) Revenue $ 852.6 $ 1,038.6 $ 1,615.0 $ 1,483.9 $ 1,329.2 Income (loss) from operations (1) (2) (123.6 ) (1,573.3 ) 317.9 224.6 118.8 Other income (expense), net (1.0 ) (16.8 ) 58.5 70.4 15.1 Net income (loss) (1) (2) (3) (149.9 ) (1,856.7 ) 286.8 142.3 49.3 Net income (loss) per share assuming dilution (1) (2) (3) (0.58 ) (7.30 ) 0.97 0.46 0.16 Total assets (1) (3) 1,410.6 1,679.9 3,862.6 3,432.3 3,401.3 Convertible notes (4) 436.0 416.6 397.8 610.8 420.0 Other long-term debt --- --- --- --- 128.0 Stockholders equity (1) (3) 108.4 186.7 2,173.6 1,808.3 1,844.7 (1) During fiscal 2008, we recorded a $1,317.2 million impairment of goodwill, a $47.1 million impairment of intangible and tangible assets and a $326.0 million valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. For additional description of the impairments of goodwill and intangible and tangible assets, see Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional description of the valuation allowance, see Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) We adopted new accounting principles for share-based payments on January 1, 2006 using the modified prospective transition method. Using the modified prospective transition method, we began recognizing compensation expense for equity-based awards granted on or after January 1, 2006 and unvested awards granted prior to January 1, 2006. (3) We adopted new accounting principles for recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions on December 31, 2006, which was the first day of fiscal 2007. For additional description of these accounting principles, see Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The cumulative effects of applying these have been reported as an adjustment to our opening balance of Retained earnings or other appropriate components of equity or net assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the beginning of fiscal 2007. (4) We adopted new accounting principles for our Convertible Senior Notes on the first day of fiscal 2009. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information and disclosures regarding this adoption. 30 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and with Item 1A, Risk Factors. Please refer to the cautionary language at the beginning of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding forward-looking statements. Business Overview We develop EDA software and hardware. We license software, sell or lease hardware technology, provide maintenance for our software and hardware and provide engineering and education services throughout the world to help manage and accelerate product development processes for electronics. Our customers use our products and services to design and develop complex ICs and electronics systems. During Fiscal 2009, we had orders of $615 million. We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software and hardware and providing engineering services. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from IC manufacturers and designers and electronics systems companies and is dependent upon their commencement of new design projects. As a result, our revenue is significantly influenced by our customers business outlook and investment in the introduction of new products and the improvement of existing products. Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income and net income (loss), as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. At least quarterly, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates and make changes accordingly. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition, accounting for income taxes and allowance for doubtful accounts have the greatest potential impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements; therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting estimates. For information on our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition We begin to recognize revenue from licensing and supporting our software and hardware products when all of the following criteria are met: We have persuasive evidence of an arrangement with a customer; Delivery of all specified products has occurred; The fee for the arrangement is considered to be fixed or determinable, at the outset of the arrangement; and Collectibility of the fee is probable. Significant judgment is involved in the determination of whether the facts and circumstances of an arrangement support that the fee for the arrangement is considered to be fixed or determinable and that collectibility of the fee is probable, and that judgment can impact the amount of revenue that we recognize in a reporting period. We must also make these judgments when assessing whether a contract amendment to a term arrangement (primarily in the context of a license extension or renewal) constitutes a concession. Our experience has been that we are able to determine whether a fee is fixed or determinable for term licenses and we have established a history of collecting under the original contract without providing concessions on payments, products 31 Table of Contents or services. However, we have concluded that fees are not fixed or determinable for license arrangements executed with customers in certain countries. For installment contracts that do not include a substantial up front payment, we consider that a fee is fixed or determinable only if the arrangement has payment periods that are equal to or less than the term of the licenses and the payments are collected in equal or nearly equal installments, when evaluated over the entire term of the arrangement. While we do not expect that experience to change, if we no longer were to have a history of collecting under the original contract without providing concessions on term licenses, revenue from term licenses would be required to be recognized when payments under the installment contract become due and payable and are collectible. Such a change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our experience has been that we are generally able to estimate whether collection is probable. Significant judgment is applied as we assess the creditworthiness of our customers to make this determination. If, in our judgment, collection of a fee is not probable, we defer the revenue until the uncertainty is removed, which generally means revenue is recognized upon receipt of cash payment. If we were unable to determine that collection is probable, such a change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A multiple element arrangement, or MEA, is any arrangement that includes or contemplates rights to a combination of software or hardware products, software license types, services, training or maintenance in a single arrangement. From time to time, we may include individual deliverables in separately priced and separately signed contracts with the same customer. We obtain and evaluate all known relevant facts and circumstances in determining whether the separate contracts should be accounted for individually as distinct arrangements or whether the separate contracts are, in substance, a MEA. Significant judgment can be involved in determining whether a group of contracts might be so closely related that they are, in effect, part of a single arrangement. For our subscription licenses, including eDA Platinum Cards, the software license agreements typically combine the right to use specified software products, the right to maintenance, and the right to receive and use unspecified future software products for no additional fee, when and if available, during the term of the license agreement. Under these license agreements, when all four of the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are met, we recognize revenue ratably over the term of the license agreement beginning with delivery of the first product. Subscription license revenue is allocated to product and maintenance revenue. The allocation to maintenance revenue is based on the average substantive renewal rates included in the sale of similar term license arrangements. In the event that the license fee for this type of arrangement is not considered to be fixed or determinable at the outset of the arrangement, we recognize revenue at the lesser of (i) the pro-rata portion of the license fee for the applicable period, or (ii) as payments from the customer become due (if all other conditions for revenue recognition have been satisfied). For term and perpetual licenses, including eDA Gold Cards, when all four of the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are met, software license fees are recognized as revenue, generally with product fees associated with the specified products recognized up-front upon completion of delivery, and with the maintenance fees recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance period. Under our current business model, a relatively small percentage of our revenue from software licenses is recognized on an up-front basis. License agreements under which software fees are recognized up-front do not include the right to receive unspecified future software products. However, in the event such license agreements are executed within close proximity or in contemplation of other license agreements that require ratable revenue recognition with the same customer, the licenses together may be deemed a MEA, in which event all such revenue would be recognized over multiple periods. Revenue from service contracts is recognized either on the time and materials method, as work is performed, or on the percentage-of-completion method. For contracts with fixed or not-to-exceed fees, we estimate on a monthly basis the percentage of completion based on the completion of milestones relating to the arrangement. We have a history of accurately estimating project status and the costs necessary to complete projects. A number of internal and external factors can affect our estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances and specification and testing requirement changes. If different conditions were to prevail such that accurate estimates could not be made, then the use of the completed contract method would be required and the recognition of all 32 Table of Contents revenue and costs would be deferred until the project was completed. Such a change could have a material impact on our results of operations. Accounting for Income Taxes We provide for the effect of income taxes in our Consolidated Financial Statements using the asset and liability method. We also apply a two-step approach to determining the financial statement recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions. Income tax expense or benefit is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year, and for deferred tax assets and liabilities for the tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We must make significant assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision (benefit) for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance to be recorded against our deferred tax assets. Our judgments, assumptions and estimates relating to the current provision (benefit) for income taxes include the geographic mix and amount of income (loss), our interpretation of current tax laws, and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. Our judgments also include anticipating the tax positions we will take on tax returns before actually preparing and filing the tax returns. Changes in our business, tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws, and developments in current and future tax audits, could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to tax benefit carryforwards and to differences between the financial statement amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. To make this assessment, we take into account predictions of the amount and category of taxable income from various sources and all available positive and negative evidence about these possible sources of taxable income. The weight given to the potential effect of negative and positive evidence is commensurate with the extent to which the strength of the evidence can be objectively verified. For example, a companys current year or previous year losses are given more weight than its future outlook. For the years ended January 2, 2010 and January 3, 2009, we concluded that a significant valuation allowance was required based on our evaluation and weighting of the positive and negative evidence. If, in the future, we determine that these deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized, a release of all or part, of the related valuation allowance could result in a material income tax benefit in the period such determination is made. For additional description of the valuation allowance, see Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We only recognize an income tax position in our financial statements that we judge is more likely than not to be sustained solely on its technical merits in a tax audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. To make this judgment, we must interpret complex and sometimes ambiguous tax laws, regulations and administrative practices. If an income tax position meets the more likely than not recognition threshold, then we must measure the amount of the tax benefit to be recognized by determining the largest amount of tax benefit that has a greater than a 50% likelihood of being realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all of the relevant facts. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as this requires us to determine the probability of various possible settlement outcomes. To determine if a tax position is effectively settled, we must also estimate the likelihood that a taxing authority would review a tax position after a tax examination has otherwise been completed. We must also determine when it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease in the 12 months after each fiscal year-end. These judgments are difficult because a taxing authority may change its behavior as a result of our disclosures in our financial statements. We must reevaluate our income tax positions on a quarterly basis to consider factors such as changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. We are also required to assess whether the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries will be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. As of January 2, 2010, we had recognized a deferred tax liability of $34.7 million related 33 Table of Contents to $67.9 million of earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries that are not considered indefinitely invested outside the United States. To calculate the tax liability for the repatriation of these earnings, we are required to estimate the geographic mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income and dividend withholding tax rates, the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, and the potential outcomes of current and future tax audits. Changes in our actual or projected operating results, tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws, foreign exchange rates and developments in current and future tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We make judgments as to our ability to collect outstanding receivables and provide allowances for a portion of receivables when collection becomes doubtful. This allowance is based on our assessment of the creditworthiness of our customers, historical experience and the overall economic climate of the industries that we serve. While we believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate, we continue to monitor customer liquidity and other economic conditions, which may result in changes to our estimates regarding our ability to collect from our customers. Changes in circumstances, such as an unexpected change in a customers ability to meet its financial obligation to us or a customers payment trends, are hard to predict and may require us to adjust our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. As a result of our assessment of increased risk of customer delays or defaults on payment obligations, we have increased our allowance for doubtful accounts to $23.7 million as of January 2, 2010, as compared to $7.5 million as of January 3, 2009. Results of Operations Overview of Fiscal 2009 Our fiscal 2009 financial results reflected the following: Continuing pressures on the research and development budgets in our customer base that are used to license, purchase or lease EDA products or services; Lower business levels due to the challenging macroeconomic environment and the timing of our contract renewals with existing customers; Lower business levels and up-front revenue recognized due to our transition to a license mix with a higher proportion of ratable revenue, beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2008; Decreased costs throughout the company as a result of our restructuring plans and other expense reductions; An increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts and the proportion of arrangements for which revenue is deferred until payments become due and payable or cash is received from customers, as a result of our assessment of the increased risk of customer delays or defaults on payment obligations; and Our retrospective adoption of new accounting principles, as required by the Debt with Conversion and Other Options subtopic of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, increasing interest expense for all periods presented. Revenue We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software and hardware and providing engineering services. We principally utilize three license types: subscription, term and perpetual. The different license types provide a customer with different conditions of use for our products, such as: The right to access new technology; The duration of the license; and Payment timing. 34 Table of Contents The timing of our product revenue is significantly affected by the mix of orders executed in any given period. For some orders, such as subscription orders, product and maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over multiple periods. In addition, depending on the individual facts and circumstances of particular orders, we have some orders where product and maintenance revenue is recognized as payments become due and some where revenue is only recognized when payment is received. For other orders, all product revenue is recognized up-front in the same quarter in which the order is executed. We seek to achieve a mix of orders with approximately 90% of the total value of all executed orders consisting of orders for which the revenue is recurring, or ratable in nature, with the balance of the orders made up of orders for which the product revenue is recognized up-front. During fiscal 2009, approximately 90% of the total value of our executed orders was comprised of ratable revenue orders. If we achieve this desired mix of executed orders over time and there are no significant changes to our business, eventually approximately 90% of our revenue would come from ratable orders. Customer decisions regarding these aspects of license transactions determine the license type, timing of revenue recognition and potential future business activity. For example, if a customer chooses a fixed duration of use, this will result in either a subscription or term license. A business implication of this decision is that, at the expiration of the license period, the customer must decide whether to continue using the technology and therefore renew the license agreement. Historically, larger customers generally used products from two or more of our five product groups and rarely completely terminated their relationship with us upon expiration of the license. See the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition and Note 2 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional descriptions of license types and timing of revenue recognition. Although we believe that pricing volatility has not generally been a material component of the change in our revenue from period to period, we believe that the amount of revenue recognized in future periods will depend on, among other things, the: Competitiveness of our new technology; Timing of contract renewals with existing customers; Length of our sales cycle; and Size, duration, terms and type of: Contract renewals with existing customers; Additional sales to existing customers; and Sales to new customers. The value and duration of contracts, and consequently product revenue recognized, is affected by the competitiveness of our products. Product revenue recognized in any period is also affected by the extent to which customers purchase subscription, term or perpetual licenses, and the extent to which contracts contain flexible payment terms. The timing of revenue recognition is also affected by changes in the extent to which existing contracts contain flexible payment terms and by changes in contractual arrangements with existing customers (e.g., customers transitioning from subscription license arrangements to term license arrangements). Revenue Mix We analyze our software and hardware businesses by product group, combining revenues for both product and maintenance because of their interrelationship. During fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, our product groups were as follows: Functional Verification : Products in this group, including the Incisive functional verification platform, are used to verify that the high level, logical representation of an IC design is functionally correct. Digital IC Design : Products in this group, including the Encounter digital IC design platform, are used to accurately convert the high-level, logical representation of a digital IC into a detailed physical blueprint and then detailed design information showing how the IC will be physically implemented. This data is used for creation of the photomasks used to manufacture semiconductors. Custom IC Design : Our custom design products, including the Virtuoso custom design platform, are used for ICs that must be designed at the transistor level, including analog, RF, memory, high performance digital blocks and 35 Table of Contents standard cell libraries. Detailed design information showing how an IC will be physically implemented is used for creation of the photomasks used to manufacture semiconductors. System Interconnect Design : This product group consists of our PCB and IC package design products, including the Allegro and OrCAD products. The Allegro system interconnect design platform enables consistent co-design of interconnects across ICs, IC packages and PCBs, while the OrCAD line focuses on cost-effective, entry-level PCB solutions. Design for Manufacturing : Included in this product group are our physical verification and analysis products. These products are used to analyze and verify that the physical blueprint of the IC has been constructed correctly and can be manufactured successfully. Our strategy includes focusing on integrating DFM awareness into our core design platforms of Encounter digital IC design and Virtuoso custom design. For additional description of our current product strategy, see the discussion under the heading Products and Product Strategy under Item 1, Business. Revenue by Year The following table shows our revenue for fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 and the dollar change in revenue between years: Change 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008 2007 2008 2007 (In millions) Product $ 400.8 $ 516.6 $ 1,104.0 $ (115.8 ) $ (587.4 ) Services 106.5 133.5 125.8 (27.0 ) 7.7 Maintenance 345.3 388.5 385.2 (43.2 ) 3.3 Total revenue $ 852.6 $ 1,038.6 $ 1,615.0 $ (186.0 ) $ (576.4 ) Product revenue decreased during each of fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, and fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily because of lower business levels due to the challenges in the macroeconomic environment, the timing of our contract renewals with existing customers, our transition to a ratable license mix and a longer sales cycle. As a result, product revenue decreased for all product groups, and particularly for Digital IC Design, Custom IC Design and Functional Verification products during both fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008. We expect to recognize increased revenue during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009 due to higher business levels and our continued transition to our more ratable business model. Services revenue decreased during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, because of lower business levels due to the challenges in the macroeconomic environment and an increase in the proportion of arrangements for which revenue is deferred until payments become due and payable or cash is received from customers, primarily as a result of our assessment of the increased risk of customer delays or defaults on payment obligations. Maintenance revenue decreased during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, due to the following: Lower business levels due to the challenges in the macroeconomic environment; An increase in the proportion of arrangements for which revenue is deferred until payments become due and payable or cash is received from customers, primarily as a result of our assessment of the increased risk of customer delays or defaults on payment obligations; and A decline in maintenance fees resulting from a reduction in the average duration of software license arrangements, because the annual fee for maintenance is lower for arrangements with shorter durations. 36 Table of Contents The following table shows the percentage of product and related maintenance revenue contributed by each of our five product groups and Services and other during fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007: 2009 2008 2007 Functional Verification 22% 22% 24% Digital IC Design 21% 24% 27% Custom IC Design 27% 24% 27% System Interconnect Design 11% 11% 8% Design for Manufacturing 7% 6% 6% Services and other 12% 13% 8% Total 100% 100% 100% As described under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates, certain of our licenses allow customers the ability to remix among software products. Additionally, we have licensed a combination of our products to customers with the actual product selection and number of licensed users to be determined at a later date. For these arrangements, we estimate the allocation of the revenue to product groups based upon the expected usage of our products by these customers. The actual usage of our products by these customers may differ and, if that proves to be the case, the revenue allocation in the above table would differ. Although we believe the methodology of allocating revenue to product groups is reasonable, there can be no assurance that such allocated amounts reflect the amounts that would result had the customer individually licensed each specific software solution at the onset of the arrangement. Revenue by Geography Change 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008 2007 2008 2007 (In millions) United States $ 370.0 $ 435.1 $ 741.9 $ (65.1 ) $ (306.8 ) Other Americas 20.9 33.0 34.8 (12.1 ) (1.8 ) Europe, Middle East and Africa 188.9 230.8 296.9 (41.9 ) (66.1 ) Japan 152.8 204.1 342.6 (51.3 ) (138.5 ) Asia 120.0 135.6 198.8 (15.6 ) (63.2 ) Total revenue $ 852.6 $ 1,038.6 $ 1,615.0 $ (186.0 ) $ (576.4 ) Revenue by Geography as a Percentage of Total Revenue 2009 2008 2007 United States 43% 42% 46% Other Americas 3% 3% 2% Europe, Middle East and Africa 22% 22% 19% Japan 18% 20% 21% Asia 14% 13% 12% No single customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue during fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 or fiscal 2007. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates caused our revenue to increase by $7.8 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a decrease in the value of the United States dollar when compared to the Japanese yen, partially offset by an increase in the value of the United States dollar when compared to the British pound and the European Union euro. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates caused our revenue to increase by $24.5 million in fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to a decrease in the value of the United States 37 Table of Contents dollar when compared to the Japanese yen and the European Union euro, partially offset by an increase in the value of the United States dollar when compared to the British pound. Additional information about revenue and other financial information by geography can be found in Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock-based Compensation Expense Summary Stock-based compensation expense is reflected throughout our costs and expenses during fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 as follows: 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Cost of product $ 0.1 $ 0.2 $ 0.2 Cost of services 3.3 4.3 3.9 Cost of maintenance 2.1 2.8 2.5 Marketing and sales 12.3 17.4 22.2 Research and development 26.4 36.7 46.3 General and administrative 10.5 19.9 26.3 Total $ 54.7 $ 81.3 $ 101.4 Stock-based compensation expense decreased by $26.6 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, and $20.1 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, due to the following: Newly granted restricted stock awards and restricted stock units, collectively referred to as restricted stock, and stock options have lower fair values, primarily due to our lower stock price; The decrease in the number of unvested restricted stock and stock options due to a reduction in headcount associated with our restructuring plans and the resignation of certain executives in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008; The decrease in the maximum purchase limits under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or ESPP, and a lower fair value of purchase rights granted; and A decrease in stock bonuses. Stock-based compensation expense during fiscal 2008 also decreased, as compared to fiscal 2007, due to the reversal of $6.5 million of stock-based compensation expense related to the modification of certain performance-based restricted stock awards, partially offset by an increase in stock option expense due to the acceleration of vesting of certain executives that resigned during fiscal 2008. We expect stock-based compensation expense to continue to decrease during fiscal 2010, primarily due to lower fair values at grant dates for restricted stock and stock options, the cancellation of restricted stock and stock options as a result of our restructuring plans and other attrition, and a reduced number of equity grants during fiscal 2010. Effects of Restructuring Plans We plan operating expense levels primarily based on forecasted revenue levels. To offset some of the impact of the decrease in our revenue, we have implemented cost savings initiatives, including reducing headcount and related costs and reducing other discretionary spending. During fiscal 2008, we initiated a restructuring plan to improve our operating results and to align our cost structure with expected revenue. This restructuring plan decreased costs during fiscal 2009 by reducing our workforce throughout the company by approximately 625 positions. We expect ongoing annual savings of approximately $150.0 million related to the restructuring activities and other expense reductions initiated in fiscal 2008. During fiscal 2009, we initiated an additional restructuring plan to improve our operating results and to align our cost structure with expected revenue. The 2009 restructuring plan, which we initiated during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and continued during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, is intended to decrease costs by reducing our workforce throughout the company by approximately 345 positions. We expect ongoing annual savings of 38 Table of Contents approximately $30.0 million related to the restructuring activities initiated during the second quarter of fiscal 2009. We expect that substantially all of the estimated restructuring plan-related annual operating expense savings related to the 2009 restructuring activities that we initiated during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, and announced in January 2010, will be offset by increased spending in connection with developing and enhancing our product technologies. See Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of these and our prior restructuring plans. Cost of Revenue Change 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008 2007 2008 2007 (In millions) Product $ 32.1 $ 50.3 $ 60.1 $ (18.2 ) $ (9.8 ) Services 90.5 103.3 93.4 (12.8 ) 9.9 Maintenance 46.6 55.8 61.1 (9.2 ) (5.3 ) The following table shows cost of revenue as a percentage of related revenue for fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007: 2009 2008 2007 Product 8 % 10 % 5 % Services 85 % 77 % 74 % Maintenance 13 % 14 % 16 % Cost of services as a percentage of Services revenue increased during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to decreased Services revenue during fiscal 2009 as noted above. Cost of Product Cost of product includes costs associated with the sale or lease of our hardware and licensing of our software products. Cost of product primarily includes the cost of employee salary, benefits and other employee-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, amortization of acquired intangibles directly related to our products, the cost of technical documentation and royalties payable to third-party vendors. Cost of product associated with our hardware products also includes materials, assembly and overhead. These additional manufacturing costs make our cost of hardware product higher, as a percentage of revenue, than our cost of software product. A summary of Cost of product during fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 is as follows: 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Product related costs $ 27.8 $ 33.0 $ 37.8 Amortization of acquired intangibles 4.3 17.3 22.3 Total Cost of product $ 32.1 $ 50.3 $ 60.1 39 Table of Contents Cost of product decreased by $18.2 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, and $9.8 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, due to the following: Change 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2008 2007 (In millions) Hardware costs $ (4.5 ) $ (5.8 ) Amortization of acquired intangibles (13.0 ) (5.0 ) Other individually insignificant items (0.7 ) 1.0 $ (18.2 ) $ (9.8 ) Hardware costs decreased during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a decrease in hardware sales and a write-off of obsolete inventory that did not recur during fiscal 2009. Hardware costs decreased during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to a decrease in hardware sales, partially offset by a write-off of obsolete inventory during fiscal 2008. Amortization of acquired intangibles decreased during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, due to the impairment of certain acquired intangibles during fiscal 2008. Amortization of acquired intangibles decreased during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, because certain acquired intangible assets became fully amortized during the related periods. Cost of product depends primarily upon the extent to which we acquire intangible assets, acquire licenses and incorporate third-party technology in our products that are licensed or sold in any given period, and the actual mix of hardware and software product sales in any given period. Cost of product as a percentage of product revenue increased during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to decreased software product revenue during fiscal 2008. Cost of Services Cost of services primarily includes employee salary, benefits and other employee-related costs, costs to maintain the infrastructure necessary to manage a services organization and provisions for contract losses, if any. Cost of services decreased by $12.8 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, and increased $9.9 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, due to the following: Change 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 (In millions) Salary, benefits and other employee-related costs $ (10.2 ) $ 3.3 Facilities and other infrastructure costs (0.4 ) 1.9 Portion of the gain on the sale of land and building that relates to Cost of services expense --- 1.1 Other discretionary spending (2.2 ) 3.6 $ (12.8 ) $ 9.9 Cost of Maintenance Cost of maintenance includes the cost of customer services, such as hot-line and on-site support, employee salary, benefits and other employee-related costs, and documentation of maintenance updates. Cost of maintenance 40 Table of Contents decreased by $9.2 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, and $5.3 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, due to the following: Change 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2008 2007 (In millions) Salary, benefit and other employee-related costs $ (6.2 ) $ (4.6 ) Other discretionary spending (3.0 ) (0.7 ) $ (9.2 ) $ (5.3 ) Operating Expenses Change 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008 2007 2008 2007 (In millions) Marketing and sales $ 286.8 $ 358.4 $ 407.1 $ (71.6 ) $ (48.7 ) Research and development 354.7 457.9 494.0 (103.2 ) (36.1 ) General and administrative 122.7 152.0 169.0 (29.3 ) (17.0 ) Total operating expenses $ 764.2 $ 968.3 $ 1,070.1 $ (204.1 ) $ (101.8 ) Operating expenses decreased during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to reduced headcount and related costs as a result of our 2008 and 2009 restructuring plans, and our cost savings initiatives to reduce discretionary spending. In addition, fiscal 2008 was a 53-week fiscal year, while fiscal 2009 was a 52-week fiscal year. Operating expenses decreased during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to reduced headcount and related costs and our cost savings initiatives to reduce discretionary spending. During fiscal 2007, we recognized a gain on the sale of land and buildings that related to, and accordingly reduced, operating expense for that period. There was no similar reduction during fiscal 2008. The following table shows operating expenses as percentage of total revenue for fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007: 2009 2008 2007 Marketing and sales 34% 35% 25% Research and development 42% 44% 31% General and administrative 14% 15% 10% Our operating expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, due to our lower Product revenue during the period. 41 Table of Contents Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expense decreased by $71.6 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, and $48.7 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, due to the following: Change 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 (In millions) Salary, commissions, benefits and other employee-related costs $ (39.3 ) $ (44.7 ) Facilities and other infrastructure costs (9.8 ) 3.2 Travel and customer conference costs (8.4 ) (5.9 ) Stock-based compensation (5.1 ) (4.8 ) Professional services costs (3.4 ) 1.0 Executive severance costs (1.5 ) 1.5 Portion of the gain on the sale of land and building that relates to Marketing and sales expense --- 3.0 Other discretionary spending (4.1 ) (2.0 ) $ (71.6 ) $ (48.7 ) Research and Development Research and development expense decreased by $103.2 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, and $36.1 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, due to the following: Change 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 (In millions) Salary, benefits and other employee-related costs $ (71.4 ) $ (26.8 ) Stock-based compensation (10.3 ) (9.6 ) Facilities and other infrastructure costs (9.7 ) 3.1 Computer equipment lease costs and maintenance costs associated with third-party software (5.5 ) 3.0 Travel costs (3.4 ) (3.5 ) Professional services costs (1.9 ) (7.3 ) Executive severance costs (1.1 ) 1.1 Portion of the gain on the sale of land and building that relates to Research and development expense --- 5.1 Other discretionary spending 0.1 (1.2 ) $ (103.2 ) $ (36.1 ) 42 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expense decreased by $29.3 million during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, and $17.0 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, due to the following: Change 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2008 2007 (In millions) Legal and other professional services costs $ (13.0 ) $ (3.0 ) Salary, benefits and other employee-related costs (10.5 ) (12.1 ) Stock-based compensation (9.4 ) (6.4 ) Executive severance costs (6.7 ) 6.7 Facilities and other infrastructure costs (6.2 ) (0.1 ) Losses on the sale of installment contract receivables (5.4 ) (7.7 ) Impairment of property, plant and equipment 5.4 0.4 Bad debt expense 16.3 6.2 Other discretionary spending 0.2 (1.0 ) $ (29.3 ) $ (17.0 ) Legal and other professional services costs decreased during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a decrease in professional services fees related to our proposed acquisition of Mentor Graphics Corporation and the restatement of our previously issued financial statements for the periods ended March 29, 2008 and June 28, 2008 that did not recur during fiscal 2009. See additional discussion of our current litigation in Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Legal and other professional services costs decreased during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, due to litigation costs incurred during fiscal 2007 that did not recur during fiscal 2008, partially offset by increased professional services fees related to our proposed acquisition of Mentor Graphics Corporation and the restatement of our previously issued financial statements for the periods ended March 29, 2008 and June 28, 2008. Losses on the sale of installment contract receivables decreased during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, and during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, due to a reduction in sales of receivables. The change in our license mix has resulted in an increased number of subscription licenses and a decrease in the sale of receivables to financial institutions because we generally do not sell the receivables associated with subscription licenses. Also, as a result of the credit losses recorded by banks during 2008 and 2009 and the financial challenges experienced by banks, a number of banks have become less willing to purchase assets because of capital constraints and concerns about over-exposure to the technology sector. Bad debt expense increased during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, and during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, because certain of our customers experienced and may continue to experience adverse changes in their business, which has resulted and may continue to result in a delay or default on their payment obligations. Executive severance costs during fiscal 2008 relate to the cash payable to three of the five executives who resigned in October 2008. The expense related to the other two resignations of executives is included in our Sales and marketing and Research and development expenses. 43 Table of Contents Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Change 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008 2007 2008 2007 (In millions) Amortization of acquired intangibles $ 11.4 $ 22.7 $ 19.4 $ (11.3 ) $ 3.3 Amortization of acquired intangibles decreased $11.3 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, and increased $3.3 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, due to the following: Change 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2008 2007 (In millions) Increase due to additions of acquired intangibles $ --- $ 6.0 Decrease due to impairment of intangibles during 2008 (9.5 ) --- Decrease due to completed amortization of acquired intangibles (1.8 ) (2.7 ) $ (11.3 ) $ 3.3 Restructuring and Other Charges We have initiated multiple restructuring plans since 2001, including a 2009 restructuring plan which includes restructuring activities initiated during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 as well as restructuring activities initiated during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and announced in January 2010. These restructuring activities initiated during fiscal 2009 are together referred to as the 2009 Restructuring Plan. See Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of these restructuring plans. Because the restructuring charges and related benefits are derived from managements estimates made during the formulation of the restructuring plans, based on then-currently available information, our restructuring plans may not achieve the benefits anticipated on the timetable or at the level contemplated. Demand for our products and services and, ultimately, our future financial performance, is difficult to predict with any degree of certainty and is especially difficult to predict in light of the current economic challenges and uncertainty. Accordingly, additional actions, including further restructuring of our operations, may be required in the future. 2009 Restructuring Plan We have recorded total costs associated with the 2009 Restructuring Plan of $35.1 million. The costs recorded as part of the 2009 Restructuring Plan include severance payments, severance-related benefits and costs for outplacement services that were communicated to the affected employees before January 2, 2010, and estimated severance payments and related benefits that were both probable and estimable as of January 2, 2010 for employees notified after January 2, 2010. Total severance and termination benefits of approximately $16.3 million related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan were paid to employees before January 2, 2010. Approximately $18.6 million of severance and termination benefits related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan will be paid after January 2, 2010, all of which is included in Accounts payable and accrued liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 2, 2010. Due to varying regulations in the jurisdictions and countries in which we operate, we expect substantially all termination benefits to be paid by January 1, 2011. We expect ongoing annual savings of approximately $30.0 million related to the restructuring activities initiated during the second quarter of 2009. We expect that substantially all of the estimated restructuring plan-related annual operating expense savings related to the 2009 restructuring activities which we initiated during the fourth quarter of 2009 and announced in January 2010 will be offset by increased spending in connection with developing and enhancing our product technologies. 44 Table of Contents 2008 Restructuring Plan The following table presents Restructuring and other charges for the 2008 Restructuring Plan: Severance and Excess Benefits Facilities Other Total (In millions) Fiscal 2009 $ (3.0 ) $ 0.5 $ --- $ (2.5 ) Fiscal 2008 $ 44.3 $ 2.3 $ 0.1 $ 46.7 During fiscal 2008, we recorded $44.3 million of headcount reduction costs associated with the 2008 Restructuring Plan, including severance payments, severance-related benefits and costs for outplacement services, substantially all of which was paid by January 2, 2010. During fiscal 2009, we recorded a net reversal of $2.5 million, consisting of reversals of $3.0 million in termination and related benefits costs that were less than initially estimated and $1.4 million of excess facilities costs due to a reduction in the estimated lease obligation associated with a facility vacated as part of the 2008 Restructuring Plan, partially offset by restructuring expense of $1.9 million related to facilities included in the 2008 Restructuring Plan that we exited during fiscal 2009. Other Restructuring Plans We recorded credits to Restructuring and other charges (credits) of $1.2 million during fiscal 2009, $0.3 million during fiscal 2008 and $9.7 million during fiscal 2007. During fiscal 2009, we recorded a release of $1.2 million of excess facilities costs due to a reduction in the estimated lease obligation associated with a facility vacated as part of the 2002 Restructuring Plan and a reduction in other facilities costs that were less than initially estimated. During fiscal 2007, we completed a lease termination agreement for a facility included in the 2001 Restructuring Plan, whereby we paid $8.2 million and were released from all future obligations related to the facility. We recorded a credit to Restructuring and other charges of $7.1 million during fiscal 2007, representing the lease loss accrual related to this facility in excess of the amount paid. Impairment of Goodwill We conduct a goodwill impairment analysis annually and as necessary if changes in facts and circumstances indicate that the fair value of our reporting unit may be less than the carrying amount. We completed an interim goodwill impairment test during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and recorded an Impairment of goodwill of $1,317.2 million, representing all of our goodwill. For additional description of our impairment of goodwill, see Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Impairment of Intangible and Tangible Assets In connection with our cost savings initiatives that were implemented during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we made certain changes to our DFM product strategy. As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of $42.5 million arising from the abandonment of certain identifiable intangible assets and reducing to net realizable value certain other identifiable intangible assets. We also abandoned and impaired $4.6 million of other long-lived assets during fiscal 2008. Interest Expense 2009 2008 2007 As Adjusted As Adjusted (In millions) Interest expense $ 28.9 $ 27.4 $ 28.3 45 Table of Contents On the first day of fiscal 2009, we adopted new accounting principles as required by the Debt with Conversion and Other Options subtopic of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, which requires issuers of certain types of convertible notes to separately account for the liability and equity components in a manner that will reflect the entitys nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. This retroactive adoption required us to adjust our Consolidated Financial Statements for prior years to reflect increased interest expense in each of those years. The primary components of Interest expense for fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 consisted of the non-cash component associated with the amortization of the debt discount as required under these new accounting principles and the contractual interest expense of our Convertible Senior Notes. Other Income (Expense), net Other income (expense), net, for fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 was as follows: 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Interest income $ 2.6 $ 20.4 $ 48.1 Gains on sale of non-marketable securities --- 1.6 6.0 Gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities 2.3 (7.9 ) 4.4 Gains (losses) on securities in the non-qualified deferred compensation trust (1.0 ) (8.9 ) 7.6 Gains (losses) on foreign exchange 0.4 3.4 (2.4 ) Net loss on liquidation of subsidiary --- (9.3 ) --- Equity loss from investments (0.5 ) (0.9 ) (3.0 ) Write-down of investments (5.2 ) (16.7 ) (2.6 ) Other income 0.4 1.5 0.4 Total other income (expense), net $ (1.0 ) $ (16.8 ) $ 58.5 The decrease in interest income during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, and during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, was due to lower average cash balances and lower interest rates. We determined that certain of our non-marketable securities were other-than-temporarily impaired and we wrote down the investments by $5.2 million during fiscal 2009, $8.6 million during fiscal 2008 and $2.6 million during fiscal 2007. During fiscal 2008, we determined that two of our available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired based on the severity and the duration of the impairments, and we wrote down the investments by $8.1 million. All of these impairments are included in the Write-down of investments line in the above table. During fiscal 2008, we purchased approximately 4.3 million shares of Mentor Graphics common stock in connection with our proposed acquisition of Mentor Graphics. After the announcement of our withdrawal of the proposed acquisition of Mentor Graphics during fiscal 2008, we sold our entire equity interest in Mentor Graphics at a loss of $9.4 million, which is included in the Gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities line in the above table. The $9.3 million loss on liquidation of subsidiary is primarily attributable to currency translation adjustment losses, net of gains, previously recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income on our Consolidated Balance Sheet for a subsidiary that was completely liquidated during fiscal 2008. 46 Table of Contents Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes The provision (benefit) for income taxes and the effective tax rates during fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 were as follows: 2009 2008 2007 As Adjusted As Adjusted (In millions, except percentages) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (3.6) $ 239.2 $ 61.4 Effective tax rate 2% (15)% 18% During fiscal 2009, a change in United States federal tax law allowed companies to elect to carry back the fiscal 2009 net operating loss for a period of three, four or five years instead of the general two-year carryback period. Our benefit for income taxes during fiscal 2009 is primarily due to $27.3 million of tax benefit from the fiscal 2009 United States federal net operating losses that can be utilized to offset taxable income in prior years, that is partially offset by current year interest expense related to unrecognized tax benefits of $13.3 million, and an increase in unrecognized tax benefits, penalties and interest related to prior year tax positions of $14.5 million. With the exception of the fiscal 2009 United States federal net operating loss that can be utilized in prior years, we recorded a valuation allowance that offset the tax benefit from other fiscal 2009 United States losses and tax credits. The $14.5 million increase in unrecognized tax benefits, penalties and interest during fiscal 2009 included $7.3 million of unrecognized tax benefits, penalties and interest that should have been recognized during multiple periods between fiscal 2004 through fiscal 2008. The effects on our fiscal 2009 results and our Consolidated Financial Statements for prior periods are not considered material. We had a fiscal 2008 provision for income taxes, primarily due to the significant fiscal 2008 tax expenses related to the impairment of non-deductible goodwill, the increase in our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, and our decision to repatriate previously untaxed foreign earnings. During fiscal 2008, we recognized the impairment of $1,059.7 million of United States goodwill that was non-deductible. We also increased the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets by $326.0 million because of the uncertainty regarding their ultimate realization. In making this judgment, we considered the fiscal 2008 loss that resulted in a cumulative three-year loss and other factors. Finally, given the challenges in the global capital markets during fiscal 2008, we decided that $317.2 million of previously untaxed earnings from foreign subsidiaries would not be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States. As a result, we accrued a tax expense of $101.1 million during fiscal 2008 to provide for the federal, state and foreign income taxes on these repatriations. Our effective tax rate was negative for fiscal 2008, as compared to the positive effective tax rate for fiscal 2007, primarily due to the fiscal 2008 Loss before provision for income taxes and the fiscal 2008 tax expenses related to the impairment of non-deductible goodwill, the increase in our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, and our decision to repatriate previously untaxed foreign earnings. The fiscal 2007 effective tax rate reflects the $27.8 million tax benefit from the fiscal 2007 effective settlement of the IRS Exam for the 1997-1999 tax years. We expect our effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 to be negative. Our expectation excludes the impact of possible effective settlements of tax examinations that may occur during fiscal 2010. The effective tax rate is negative because we expect to record a loss before provision for income taxes during fiscal 2010 and because we expect to have tax expense on the income of certain foreign subsidiaries and interest expense on our unrecognized tax benefits. In addition, we currently anticipate recording a valuation allowance that will offset the potential tax benefit of certain tax loss and credit carryforwards generated during fiscal 2010. We intend to indefinitely reinvest approximately $79.0 million of undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries as of January 2, 2010, to meet the working capital and long-term capital needs of our foreign subsidiaries. The unrecognized deferred tax liability for these indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings was approximately $35.3 million as of January 2, 2010. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We concluded that a valuation 47 Table of Contents allowance of $383.2 million was required as of January 2, 2010. This represents an increase in valuation allowance of $52.0 million in comparison with the year ended January 3, 2009. If, in the future, we determine that these deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized, a release of all or part of the related valuation allowance could result in a material income tax benefit in the period such determination is made. The IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns and we have received RARs indicating that the IRS has proposed to assess certain tax deficiencies. For further discussion regarding our Income taxes, including the calculation of our valuation allowance, our deferred tax assets, and the status of the IRS examinations, see Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Change 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2009 2008 2007 2008 2007 As Adjusted As Adjusted (In millions) Cash, cash equivalents and Short-term investments $ 571.3 $ 572.1 $ 1,078.1 $ (0.8 ) $ (506.0 ) Net working capital 452.8 389.8 743.4 63.0 (353.6 ) Cash provided by operating activities 25.6 70.3 402.4 (44.7 ) (332.1 ) Cash used for investing activities (50.5 ) (126.9 ) (108.4 ) 76.4 (18.5 ) Cash provided by (used for) financing activities 21.0 (443.4 ) (170.1 ) 464.4 (273.3 ) Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments As of January 2, 2010, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of $571.3 million of Cash and cash equivalents and Short-term investments, as compared to $572.1 million as of January 3, 2009 and $1,078.1 million as of December 29, 2007. Our primary sources of cash during fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 were: Customer payments under software licenses and from the sale or lease of our hardware products; Customer payments for services; Cash received for common stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan; and Proceeds from the sale of receivables during fiscal 2008. Our primary uses of cash during fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 were: Payments relating to salary, benefits, other employee-related costs and other operating expenses, including our restructuring plans; Purchases of property, plant and equipment; Payments to former shareholders of acquired businesses; Purchases of treasury stock as part of our stock repurchase program during fiscal 2008; and Repurchase of the 2023 Notes in the amount of $230.2 million pursuant to their terms during fiscal 2008. We expect that current cash and short-term investment balances and cash flows that are generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, other capital and liquidity requirements for at least the next 12 months. 48 Table of Contents Net Working Capital Net working capital increased $63.0 million as of January 2, 2010, as compared to January 3, 2009, and decreased $353.6 million as of January 3, 2009, as compared to December 29, 2007, due to the following: Change 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2008 2007 As Adjusted (In millions) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities $ 110.9 $ 28.8 Current portion of deferred revenue 55.4 (37.9 ) Cash and cash equivalents 0.9 (494.7 ) Prepaid expenses and other (0.1 ) (38.8 ) Receivables, net (98.0 ) (27.5 ) Convertible notes --- 230.4 Other individually insignificant items (6.1 ) (13.9 ) $ 63.0 $ (353.6 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $44.7 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, and $332.1 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, due to the following: Change 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2008 2007 (In millions) Net income (loss), net of non-cash related gains and losses $ 55.0 $ (545.1 ) Proceeds from the sale of receivables, net (46.4 ) (163.2 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effect of acquired businesses (53.3 ) 376.2 $ (44.7 ) $ (332.1 ) Cash flows from operating activities include Net income (loss), adjusted for certain non-cash charges, as well as changes in the balances of certain assets and liabilities. Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly influenced by business levels, the payment terms set forth in our license agreements and by sales of our receivables. As a result of the challenging economic environment, our customers, who are primarily concentrated in the semiconductor sector, have experienced and may continue to experience adverse changes in their business and as a result, may delay purchasing our products and services or delay or default on their payment obligations. Approximately half of our total Receivables, net and Installment contract receivables, net as of January 2, 2010 relate to ten of our customers. If our customers are not successful in generating sufficient cash or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us, although these obligations are generally not cancelable. Our customers inability to fulfill payment obligations may adversely affect our cash flow. Additionally, our customers may seek to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments. Though we have not yet experienced a material level of defaults, any material payment default by our customers or significant reductions in existing contractual commitments would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We have entered into agreements whereby we may transfer accounts receivable to certain financial institutions on a non-recourse or limited-recourse basis. During fiscal 2009, we transferred accounts receivable to financial institutions on a non-recourse basis, totaling $5.8 million, net of the losses on the sale of the receivables, as compared to $52.2 million during fiscal 2008 and $215.4 million during fiscal 2007. The change in our license mix 49 Table of Contents has resulted in an increased number of subscription licenses and, therefore, a decrease in the sale of receivables to financial institutions. For additional information regarding our sales of receivables, see Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. During fiscal 2008 and the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we initiated restructuring plans to decrease costs by reducing our workforce and by consolidating facilities and we expect ongoing annual savings of approximately $180.0 million related to these restructuring activities and other expense reductions. In January 2010, we announced additional restructuring activities that we initiated during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. We expect that substantially all of the estimated annual operating expense savings associated with the restructuring activities announced in January 2010 will be offset by increased spending in connection with developing and enhancing our product technologies. As of January 2, 2010, we had made payments in connection with these restructuring plans in the amount of $59.1 million and we expect to pay an additional amount of $20.8 million. We expect substantially all termination benefits related to these restructuring plans to be paid by January 1, 2011. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our primary investing activities during fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 consisted of: Purchases and proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment; Purchases of available-for-sale securities during fiscal 2008; Cash paid in business combinations and asset acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and acquisition of intangibles; and Proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities and long-term investments. Net cash used for investing activities decreased $76.4 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, and increased $18.5 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007, due to the following: Change 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2008 2007 (In millions) Purchases of available-for-sale securities $ 62.4 $ (62.4 ) Purchases of property, plant and equipment 56.0 (15.5 ) Cash paid in business combinations and asset acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and acquisition of intangibles 6.8 59.8 Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 3.9 (46.5 ) Proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities (52.4 ) 50.1 Other individually insignificant items (0.3 ) (4.0 ) $ 76.4 $ (18.5 ) In January 2007, we completed the sale of certain land and buildings in San Jose, California for a sales price of $46.5 million in cash. Concurrently with the sale, we leased back from the purchaser all available space in the buildings. During the lease term, we constructed an additional building on our San Jose, California campus to replace the buildings we sold in this transaction. The decrease in cash payments for Property, plant and equipment during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, is primarily due to the completion of this new building in January 2009. During fiscal 2008, we purchased approximately 4.3 million shares of Mentor Graphics common stock for $62.4 million in connection with our proposed acquisition of Mentor Graphics. After the announcement of our withdrawal of the proposed acquisition of Mentor Graphics we sold our entire equity interest in Mentor Graphics for $53.0 million. 50 Table of Contents In connection with our acquisitions completed before January 2, 2010, we may be obligated to pay up to an aggregate of $15.9 million in cash during the next 32 months if certain defined performance goals are achieved in full, of which $8.1 million would be included as compensation expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We expect to continue our investing activities, including purchasing property, plant and equipment, purchasing intangible assets, purchasing software licenses, business combinations, and making long-term equity investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Financing cash flows during fiscal 2009 consisted primarily of the issuance of common stock under certain employee plans. Net cash provided by financing activities was $21.0 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $443.4 million during fiscal 2008, and $170.1 million during fiscal 2007. The changes in our financing cash flows are due to the following: Change 2009 vs. 2008 vs. 2008 2007 (In millions) Purchases of treasury stock $ 274.0 $ 125.5 Principal payments of our notes due 2023 230.2 (230.2 ) Proceeds from the issuance of common stock (20.2 ) (207.3 ) Proceeds from receivable sale financing (18.0 ) 18.0 Payments on our term loan --- 28.0 Other individually insignificant items (1.6 ) (7.3 ) $ 464.4 $ (273.3 ) The decrease in Proceeds from the issuance of common stock during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, is primarily due to decreased purchase limits under our ESPP, which became effective during fiscal 2009. We did not repurchase any of our common stock during fiscal 2009. As of January 2, 2010, we had $854.4 million remaining under the stock repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors. During fiscal 2008, we repurchased $230.2 million principal amount of the 2023 Notes upon election of the holders of the 2023 Notes pursuant to the terms thereof, for total consideration of $230.8 million. We record a gain or loss on re-issuance of treasury stock based on the total proceeds received in the transaction. During fiscal 2009, we recorded losses on the re-issuance of treasury stock of $213.4 million as a component of Retained earnings (Accumulated deficit). Other Factors Affecting Liquidity and Capital Resources Income Taxes We provide for United States income taxes on earnings of our foreign subsidiaries unless the earnings are considered indefinitely invested outside the United States. As of January 2, 2010, we had recognized a deferred tax liability of $34.7 million related to $67.9 million of earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries that are not considered indefinitely reinvested outside the United States and for which we have previously made a provision for income tax. We repatriated $50.0 million of the $67.9 million during January 2010 and expect to repatriate $12.9 million of the remainder during fiscal 2010. We estimate that the fiscal 2010 repatriations will result in fiscal 2010 cash tax payments of approximately $2.2 million. We intend to indefinitely reinvest approximately $79.0 million of undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries as of January 2, 2010, to meet the working capital and long-term capital needs of our foreign 51 Table of Contents subsidiaries. The unrecognized deferred tax liability for these indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings was approximately $35.3 million as of January 2, 2010. The IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns and we have received RARs pursuant to which the IRS has proposed to assess certain tax deficiencies. For additional description of our IRS Examinations, see Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. As of January 2, 2010, we had current income tax liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits of $3.9 million. As of January 2, 2010, we had long-term income tax liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits of $313.6 million. For additional information on the income tax liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, see the discussion under the heading Contractual Obligations. 1.375% Convertible Senior Notes Due December 2011 and 1.500% Convertible Senior Notes Due December 2013 In December 2006, we issued $250.0 million principal amount of our 2011 Notes and $250.0 million of our 2013 Notes. Concurrently with the issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes, we entered into hedge transactions with various parties and, in separate transactions, sold warrants to purchase our common stock to various parties to reduce the potential dilution from the conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes and to mitigate any negative effect such conversion may have on the price of our common stock. The 2011 Notes mature on December 15, 2011 and the 2013 Notes mature on December 15, 2013, and the principal amounts will be paid in cash at maturity. For additional description of the Convertible Senior Notes, including the hedge and warrants transactions, see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Contractual Obligations A summary of our contractual obligations as of January 2, 2010 is as follows: Payments Due by Period Less More Total Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Than 5 Years (In millions) Operating lease obligations $ 84.6 $ 24.4 $ 30.3 $ 13.2 $ 16.7 Purchase obligations 20.3 19.0 0.9 0.4 --- 2023 Notes (1) 0.2 --- --- 0.2 --- Convertible Senior Notes 500.0 --- 250.0 250.0 --- Contractual interest payments 21.9 7.2 10.9 3.8 --- Current income tax payable and Unrecognized tax benefits 8.0 8.0 --- --- --- Other long-term contractual obligations (2) 237.8 --- 232.4 2.5 2.9 Total $ 872.8 $ 58.6 $ 524.5 $ 270.1 $ 19.6 (1) The 2023 Notes are due in August 2023. However, the holders of the 2023 Notes can require us to repurchase for cash the remaining portion of the 2023 Notes on August 15, 2013 for 100.00% of the principal amount. Therefore, we have included $0.2 million of principal of the 2023 Notes on the potential repurchase of the 2023 Notes in the 3-5 Years column in the above table. (2) Included in other long-term contractual obligations are long-term income tax liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits of $313.6 million, and of that amount we estimate that $215.9 million will be paid or settled within 1 to 3 years. We did not include the remaining long-term income tax liabilities of $97.7 million in the table above, because we estimated that this liability can be offset by available net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and that future cash payments will not be required to settle this liability. However, the total amounts of income tax payable and the timing of such tax payments may depend upon the resolution of current and future tax examinations that cannot be estimated with certainty. The remaining portion of other long-term contractual obligations is primarily acquisition-related liabilities. 52 Table of Contents With respect to purchase obligations that are cancelable by us, the table includes the amount that would have been payable if we had canceled the obligation as of January 2, 2010 or the earliest cancellation date. In connection with our acquisitions completed before January 2, 2010, we may be obligated to pay up to an aggregate of $15.9 million in cash during the next 32 months if certain defined performance goals are achieved in full. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 2, 2010, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. New Accounting Standards In October 2009, the FASB issued new accounting standards for multiple-deliverable arrangements and for revenue arrangements that include both tangible products and software elements. The new standards for multiple-deliverable arrangements enable vendors to account for products or services (deliverables) separately rather than as a combined unit. This guidance establishes a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable based on: (a) vendor-specific objective evidence; (b) third-party evidence; or (c) estimates. This guidance also eliminates the residual method of allocation and requires that arrangement consideration be allocated at the inception of the arrangement to all deliverables using the relative selling price method. In addition, this guidance significantly expands required disclosures related to a vendors multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. Under the new standards for revenue arrangements that include both tangible products and software elements, tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the tangible products essential functionality are excluded from the pre-existing software revenue guidance. In addition, hardware components of a tangible product containing software components are always excluded from the pre-existing software revenue guidance. We are currently evaluating the application to our revenue arrangements of the two new accounting standards described above. The impact of these new standards may result in revenue being recognized for certain sales of hardware and nonsoftware-related deliverables separate from the software deliverables within a multiple element arrangement. Both of these new standards are effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified during fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, with the option to provide retrospective presentation for prior years, with early adoption permitted. We plan to adopt these two new accounting standards during our first quarter of fiscal 2011. In June 2009, the FASB issued new accounting standards for determining whether to consolidate a variable interest entity. These new standards amend the evaluation criteria to identify the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and require ongoing reassessment of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of the variable interest entity. The provisions of the new standards are effective for annual reporting periods beginning after November 15, 2009 and interim periods within those fiscal years. These standards will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. We are currently evaluating the impact that these new standards will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements.