Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Marketing and Sales We generally market our products and provide services to existing and prospective customers through a direct sales force consisting of sales people and applications engineers. Applications engineers provide technical pre-sales and post-sales support for software products. Due to the complexity of many of our EDA products and the electronic design process, the sales cycle is generally long, requiring three to six months or more. During the sales cycle, our direct sales force generally provides technical presentations, product demonstrations and support for on-site customer evaluation of our solutions. We also promote our products and services through advertising, direct mail, trade shows, public relations and the internet. We selectively utilize value-added resellers to broaden our reach and reduce cost of sales. All OrCAD and selected Incisive products are primarily marketed through these channels. With respect to international sales, we generally market and support our products and services through our subsidiaries. We also use a third-party distributor to sell our products and services to certain customers in Japan. Product Arrangements We license software using three license types: term, subscription and perpetual. Customers who prefer to license technology for a specified, limited period of time will choose either a term or subscription license, and customers who prefer to have the right to use the technology continuously without time restriction will choose a perpetual license. Customers who desire to use new software technology during the life of the contract will select a subscription license, which allows them limited access to unspecified new technology on a when-and-if-available basis, as opposed to a term or perpetual license, which does not include the right to use new technology. Payment terms for term and subscription licenses generally provide for payments to be made in installments over the license period and payment terms for perpetual licenses generally are net 30 days. Our hardware products are either sold or leased to our customers. We generally license our Design IP under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific applications. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per-design basis. For a further description of our license agreements, our hardware sale or lease agreements, revenue recognition policies and results of operations, please refer to the discussion under the heading "Critical Accounting Estimates" under Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 5 Table of Contents Backlog Our backlog was approximately $ 1.7 billion as of both December 29, 2012 and December 31, 2011 . Our backlog as of December 29, 2012 consisted of fully executed arrangements with effective dates commencing no later than December 29, 2012 with revenue to be recognized thereafter, and included a variety of license types, generally including, but not limited to: Licenses for software products and Design IP; Maintenance on hardware and software products; Bookings for the sale of hardware products that have expected delivery dates after December 29, 2012 and prior to March 30, 2013 ; Leases of hardware products; Licenses with payments that are outside our customary terms; and The undelivered portion of engineering services contracts. The substantial majority of our backlog consists of customer contracts for which product and maintenance revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the contract life. Historically, we have not experienced significant cancellations of our contracts with customers. For engineering services contracts in backlog, completion dates are occasionally rescheduled, delaying revenue recognition under those contracts beyond the original anticipated completion date. Changes in customer license types or payment terms also can affect the timing of revenue recognition. During fiscal 2012, approximately 73% of our revenue came from backlog as of December 31, 2011 . We expect approximately $1.0 billion , or approximately 70% of our fiscal 2013 revenue to come from arrangements that were in backlog as of December 29, 2012 . The actual percentage of revenue coming from backlog during fiscal 2013 may change if our actual business levels in fiscal 2013 are different than our current expectations. Revenue Seasonality As a result of our ratable revenue model, our overall exposure to short term revenue seasonality has generally been reduced. Research and Development Our research and development expense was $454.1 million during fiscal 2012, $400.7 million during fiscal 2011 and $376.4 million during fiscal 2010. The primary areas of our research and development include the following: SoC design and verification; High-performance IC packaging, SiP and PCB design; Systemlevel modeling and verification and hardware/software co-verification; and VIP and Design IP. Our future performance depends largely on our ability to maintain and enhance our current product development and commercialization of newly developed products or capabilities, and to offer solutions that meet increasingly demanding productivity, quality, predictability and cost requirements. Our offerings must keep pace with our customers' technical developments, including the adoption of advanced process nodes, and industry standards. Manufacturing and Software Distribution We perform final assembly and testing of our hardware products at our headquarters in San Jose, California. Subcontractors manufacture all major subassemblies, including all individual PCBs and custom ICs, and supply them for qualification and testing before their incorporation into the assembled product. Software and documentation are primarily distributed to customers by secure electronic delivery or on DVD. Proprietary Technology Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new licenses or renew existing licenses for third-party software and other intellectual property in the future. As part of performing engineering services for customers, our engineering services business uses certain software and other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including that of our competitors. 6 Table of Contents Competition We compete in EDA software and hardware products most frequently with Synopsys, Inc., and Mentor Graphics Corporation, but also with numerous other EDA providers (such as Ansys, Inc., Atrenta, Inc., ATopTech, Inc., Berkeley Design Automation, Inc. and Zuken Ltd., and many others offering "point solutions"), with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed, acquired or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics design and consulting companies. During fiscal 2012, Synopsys acquired Magma Design Automation, Inc., EVE SA and Springsoft Inc. We expect that Synopsys' integration of these companies into its product offerings will result in increased competitive pressures. In the area of Design IP, we compete with Synopsys and numerous smaller IP companies. We generally compete on the basis of quality, product features, level of integration or compatibility with other tools, price and payment terms. Certain competitive factors in the engineering services business differ from those of the products businesses. While we compete with other EDA companies in the engineering services business, our principal competitors include independent engineering service businesses. These companies vary in focus, geographic location, capability, cost structure and pricing. Business models of these companies range from services-only engineering work to delivery of completed ICs. Many of these companies are also customers, and therefore use our product offerings in the delivery of their services or products. While we still compete with these companies by focusing on the design of complex analog, digital and mixed-signal ICs and SoCs, we have moved certain of our design services engineers to our research and development activities to further enhance our growing portfolio of Design IP and to improve our competitive position in that scalable business. International Operations We have 49 sales offices, design centers and research and development facilities, approximately 60% of which are located outside of the United States. We consider customer sales and support requirements, the availability of a skilled workforce, and costs and efficiencies, among other relative benefits, when determining what operations to locate internationally. For an additional description of our international operations, see the discussion under the heading "The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact our financial condition" under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Note 21 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Employees As of December 29, 2012 , we employed approximately 5,200 people. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table provides information regarding our executive officers as of February 21, 2013 : Name Age Positions and Offices Lip-Bu Tan 53 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Geoffrey G. Ribar 54 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer James J. Cowie 48 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Chi-Ping Hsu 57 Senior Vice President, Research and Development Charlie Huang 49 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations Martin N. Lund 45 Senior Vice President, Research and Development Nimish H. Modi 50 Senior Vice President, Research and Development Our executive officers are appointed by the Board of Directors and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. LIP-BU TAN has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Cadence since January 2009. Mr. Tan has been a member of the Cadence Board of Directors since February 2004. In 1987, Mr. Tan founded Walden International, an international venture capital firm, and since that time has served as its Chairman. Mr. Tan also serves as a director of Ambarella, Inc., Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation and SINA Corporation. Mr. Tan received an M.S. in nuclear engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, an MBA from the University of San Francisco, and a B.S. from Nanyang University in Singapore. GEOFFREY G. RIBAR has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cadence since November 2010. Before joining Cadence in October 2010, Mr. Ribar served as Chief Financial Officer of Telegent Systems, Inc., a semiconductor 7 Table of Contents company, from May 2008 to October 2010. From January 2006 to April 2008, Mr. Ribar served as Chief Financial Officer at SiRF Technology, Inc., a semiconductor company that was acquired by CSR plc in 2009. Mr. Ribar served as Chief Financial Officer at other semiconductor companies including Asyst Technology, Inc., Matrix Semiconductor, Inc., and nVidia Corporation. Mr. Ribar also held various positions including Corporate Controller at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a microchip manufacturing company. Mr. Ribar received his Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry, as well as an MBA, from the University of Michigan. JAMES J. COWIE has served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Cadence since April 2008 and Secretary of Cadence since May 2008. From August 2000 to March 2008, Mr. Cowie held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President - Business Development, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Mr. Cowie holds a bachelor's degree in economics from Duke University and a J.D. from Stanford Law School. CHI-PING HSU has served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since November 2008. From April 2003 to November 2008, Mr. Hsu held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President, IC Digital and Power Forward. Before joining Cadence, Mr. Hsu served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Get2Chip Inc., a supplier of high-performance system-on-chip synthesis that was acquired by Cadence in April 2003. Mr. Hsu also serves as a director of MoSys, Inc. Mr. Hsu holds a Ph.D. degree in EECS from the University of California, Berkeley, and a BSEE degree from National Taiwan University. CHARLIE HUANG has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations of Cadence since April 2011. From January 2009 to April 2011, Mr. Huang served as Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of Cadence. From April 2010 to April 2011, Mr. Huang also served as Chief of Staff. From April 2007 to January 2009, Mr. Huang served as Senior Vice President - Business Development of Cadence. Mr. Huang was General Partner at Telos Venture Partners, a Cadence-affiliated venture capital firm, from 2004 to 2005. From 2001 to March 2007, Mr. Huang held several positions at Cadence in engineering management and business development. Before joining Cadence, Mr. Huang co-founded and was Chief Executive Officer of CadMOS Design Technology, Inc., an EDA company that was acquired by Cadence in 2001. Mr. Huang holds a BSEE from Shanghai Jiao Tong University and a Ph.D. from Carnegie Mellon University. MARTIN N. LUND has served a Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since March 2012. Prior to joining Cadence, from March 2000 to March 2012, Mr. Lund held several positions at Broadcom Corporation, most recently as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Broadcom's Network Switching Business. Mr. Lund holds a technical degree from Frederiksberg Technical College and Ris National Laboratory at the Technical University of Denmark. NIMISH H. MODI has served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since November 2008. From August 2006 to November 2008, Mr. Modi served as Corporate Vice President, Front-End Design. Before joining Cadence, from May 1988 to August 2006, Mr. Modi held several positions at Intel Corporation, a semiconductor company, most recently as Vice President in the Enterprise Platforms Group. Mr. Modi holds a Bachelor of Engineering degree in electrical engineering from the University of Bombay and a Masters degree in electrical engineering from Virginia Tech. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. Described below under the headings "Risks Related to Our Business" and "Risks Related to Our Securities and Indebtedness" are what we believe to be the material risks that we face. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Risks Related to Our Business Uncertainty in the global economy in general, and any potential downturn in the semiconductor and electronics industries in particular, may negatively impact our business and reduce our bookings levels and revenue. Purchases of our products and services are dependent upon the commencement of new design projects by IC manufacturers and electronics systems companies. The IC and electronics systems industries are cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. For example, the IC and electronics systems industries experienced a significant downturn in 2009. The IC and electronic systems industries have also experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both these industries' and their customers' products. This economic downturn in the industries we serve contributed to the reduction in our revenue in 2009, as compared to prior years. Although the semiconductor industry experienced growth in 2010, semiconductor industry revenues for 2011 remained at levels similar to 2010 and early reports indicate that semiconductor industry revenue during 2012 was slightly lower than 2011. Spending on EDA products and services grew moderately during fiscal 2012. 8 Table of Contents While spending on EDA products and services has grown in recent years, the outlook for the semiconductor industry for 2013 is uncertain and may result in a decrease in spending on EDA products and services. While we cannot predict global economic conditions, uncertainty about future economic conditions and future decline in consumer spending could negatively impact our customers' businesses, reducing the number of new chip designs, their overall research and development spending, including their spending on EDA products and services, and as a result decrease demand for our products. Decreased bookings for our products and services, customer bankruptcies, or consolidation among our customers could also adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Our future business and financial results are subject to considerable uncertainty that could impact our stock price. If economic conditions deteriorate in the future, or, in particular, if semiconductor industry revenues do not grow, our future revenues and financial results could be adversely affected. However, if economic conditions improve for our customers, the positive impact on our revenues and financial results may be deferred due to cautious customer research and development spending and our ratable license mix. Our failure to respond quickly to technological developments or customers' increasing technological requirements could make our products uncompetitive and obsolete. The industries in which we compete experience rapid technology developments, changes in industry standards and customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and improvements. Currently, the industries we serve are experiencing the following trends: Changes in the design and manufacturing of ICs, including migration to advanced process nodes and the introduction of three dimensional transistors, such as fin-based, multigate transistors, or FinFETs, present major challenges to the semiconductor industry, particularly in IC design, design automation, design of manufacturing equipment, and the manufacturing process itself. With migration to advanced process nodes, the industry must adapt to more complex physics and manufacturing challenges such as the need to draw features on silicon that are many times smaller than the wavelength of light used to draw the features via lithography. Models of each component's electrical properties and behavior also become more complex as do requisite analysis, design, verification and manufacturing capabilities. Novel design tools and methodologies must be invented and enhanced quickly to remain competitive in the design of electronics in the smallest nanometer ranges. The challenges of advanced node design are leading some customers to work with more mature, less risky manufacturing processes that may reduce their need to upgrade or enhance their EDA products and design flows. The ability to design SoCs increases the complexity of managing a design that, at the lowest level, is represented by billions of shapes on fabrication masks. In addition, SoCs typically incorporate microprocessors and digital signal processors that are programmed with software, requiring simultaneous design of the IC and the related software embedded on the IC. With the availability of seemingly endless gate capacity, there is an increase in design reuse, or the combining of off-the-shelf design IP with custom logic to create ICs or SoCs. The unavailability of a broad range of high-quality design IP (including our own) that can be reliably incorporated into a customer's design with our software products and services could lead to reduced demand for our products and services. Increased technological capability of the Field-Programmable Gate Array, or FPGA, which is a programmable logic chip, creates an alternative to IC implementation for some electronics companies. This could reduce demand for our IC implementation products and services. A growing number of low-cost engineering services businesses could reduce the need for some IC companies to invest in EDA products. Adoption of cloud computing technologies with accompanying new business models for an increasing number of software categories, including EDA. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these trends, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become obsolete. To compete successfully, we must develop, acquire or license new products and improve our existing products and processes on a schedule that keeps pace with technological developments and the requirements for products addressing a broad spectrum of designers and designer expertise in our industries. Our hardware platforms must be enhanced periodically to reduce the likelihood that a competitor surpasses the capabilities we offer. We must also be able to support a range of changing computer software, hardware platforms and customer preferences. A rapid transition to different business models associated with cloud computing technologies could result in reduced revenue. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in keeping pace with all, or any, of the customer trends. 9 Table of Contents Warrant transactions associated with our convertible notes will, in certain circumstances, dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. At the time of issuance of our convertible notes due in 2015, we entered into separate warrant transactions for the purchase of up to approximately 46.4 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of $10.78 per share. At the time of issuance of our convertible noes due 2013, we also entered into separate warrant transactions, and warrants are currently outstanding to purchase approximately 6.8 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of $31.50 per share. These warrants will be settled in net shares. Therefore, upon expiration of the warrants we will issue shares of our common stock to the purchasers of the warrants that represent the value by which the price of our common stock exceeds the strike price stipulated within the particular warrant agreement. If our stock price is above the warrants' strike price upon expiration of the warrants, the warrants will dilute the ownership interest to our existing stockholders. The warrants will also dilute our diluted earnings per share in periods when our average closing stock price exceeds the strike price of the particular warrant. Any sales in the public market of common stock issuable upon net settlement at expiration of the warrants could adversely affect then current market prices of our common stock. Additional risk factors related to our indebtedness are described below under "Risks Related to Our Securities and Indebtedness." Our stock price has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to be subject to fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may fluctuate or decline in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: Announcements of our quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts that fail to meet or are inconsistent with earlier projections or the expectations of our securities analysts or investors; Changes in our forecasted bookings, revenue or earnings estimates; Market conditions in the IC, electronics systems and semiconductor industries; Announcements of a restructuring plan; Changes in management; A gain or loss of a significant customer or market segment share; Material litigation; and Announcements of new products or acquisitions of new technologies by us, our competitors or our customers. In addition, equity markets in general, and the equities of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Such price and volume fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. We have experienced varied operating results, and our operating results for any particular fiscal period are affected by the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our hardware products. We have recorded net losses in the past and may record net losses in the future. Various factors affect our operating results and some of them are not within our control. Our operating results for any period are affected by the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our hardware products. A substantial portion of the product revenue related to our hardware business is recognized upon delivery. Revenue related to our hardware business is inherently difficult to predict, because sales of our hardware products depend on the commencement of new projects for the design and development of complex ICs and systems by our customers and our customers' willingness to expend capital to deploy our hardware in those projects. Therefore, our hardware sales may be delayed or may decrease if our customers delay or cancel projects because their capital spending is constrained. Moreover, the verification hardware market is highly competitive, and our customers may choose to purchase a competitor's verification hardware product based on cost, performance or other factors. These factors may result in lower hardware revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, our forecasted revenue results are based, in part, on our expectations of hardware to be delivered in a particular quarter. Since revenue related to our hardware business is generally recognized upon delivery, changes in hardware bookings or deliveries relative to expectations will have a more immediate impact on our revenue than do changes in software or services bookings, for which revenue is generally recognized over time. Our software license mix is such that a substantial proportion of licenses require ratable revenue recognition, and we expect the license mix, combined with the modest growth in spending by our customers in the semiconductor sector, may make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue in future fiscal periods. The timing of our revenue recognition may be deferred until payments 10 Table of Contents become due and payable from customers with nonlinear payment terms or as cash is collected from customers with low credit ratings. We plan our operating expenses based on forecasted revenue, expected business needs and other factors. These expenses and the effect of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. Bookings and the related revenue are harder to forecast in a difficult economic environment. If the macroeconomic environment weakens, and we experience a shortfall in bookings, our operating results could differ from our expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce our expenses in response to short-term business changes. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see "Critical Accounting Estimates" under Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that may lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. You should not view our historical results of operations as reliable indicators of our future performance. If our revenue, operating results or business outlook for future periods fall short of the levels expected by us, securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. We depend on sole suppliers for certain hardware components, making us vulnerable to supply disruption and price fluctuation. We depend on sole suppliers for certain hardware components. Our reliance on sole suppliers could result in product delivery problems and reduced control over product pricing and quality. Though we prefer to have multiple sources to procure certain key components, in some cases it is not practical or feasible to do so. We may suffer a disruption in the supply of certain hardware components if we are unable to purchase sufficient components on a timely basis or at all for any reason. Any supply disruption could delay our production process and prevent us from delivering completed hardware products to customers or from supplying new evaluation units to customers, which could have a negative impact on our revenue and operating results. The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact our revenue, expenses, cash flows and financial condition. We have significant operations outside the United States. Our revenue from international operations as a percentage of total revenue was approximately 57% during fiscal 2012, 57% during fiscal 2011 and 59% during fiscal 2010. We expect that revenue from our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. We also transact business in various foreign currencies. The volatility of foreign currencies in certain countries where we conduct business, most notably the Japanese yen, European Union euro, British pound and Indian rupee have had and may in the future have an effect on our revenue or operating results. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the United States or US dollar and the currencies of other countries where we conduct business could seriously affect our business, operating results or financial condition. For example, when a foreign currency declines in value relative to the US dollar, it takes more of the foreign currency to purchase the same amount of US dollars than before the change. If we price our products and services in the foreign currency, we receive fewer US dollars than we did before the change. If we price our products and services in US dollars, the decrease in value of the local currency results in an increase in the price for our products and services compared to those products of our competitors that are priced in local currency. This could result in our prices being uncompetitive in markets where business is transacted in the local currency. On the other hand, when a foreign currency increases in value relative to the US dollar, it takes more US dollars to purchase the same amount of the foreign currency. As we use the foreign currency to fund payroll costs and other operating expenses in our international operations, this results in an increase in operating expenses. Our attempts to reduce the effect of foreign currency fluctuations may be unsuccessful, and significant exchange rate movements may hurt our results of operations as expressed in US dollars. Litigation could adversely affect our financial condition or operations. We currently are, and in the future may be, involved in various disputes and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, including customer indemnification, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contracts, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. For information regarding the litigation matters in which we are currently engaged, please refer to the discussion under Item 3, "Legal Proceedings" and Note 15 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. We cannot provide any assurances that the final outcome of these lawsuits or any other proceedings that may arise in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Litigation can be time consuming and expensive and could divert management's time and attention from our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. 11 Table of Contents Our future revenue is dependent in part upon our installed customer base continuing to license or buy additional products and purchase additional services. Our installed customer base has traditionally generated additional new license, service and maintenance revenues. In future periods, customers may not necessarily license or buy additional products or contract for additional services or maintenance. Our customers, many of which are large semiconductor and systems companies, often have significant bargaining power in negotiations with us. Mergers or acquisitions of our customers can reduce the total level of purchases of our software and services, and in some cases, increase customers' bargaining power in negotiations with their suppliers, including us. The competition in our industries is substantial and we may not be able to continue to successfully compete in our industries. The EDA industry and the commercial electronics engineering services industry are highly competitive. If we fail to compete successfully in these industries, it could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. To compete in these industries, we must identify and develop or acquire innovative and cost-competitive EDA products, integrate them into platforms and market them in a timely manner. We may not be able to compete successfully in these industries. Factors that could affect our ability to succeed include: The development by others of competitive EDA products or platforms and engineering services, possibly resulting in a shift of customer preferences away from our products and services and significantly decreased revenue; Decisions by electronics manufacturers to perform engineering services internally, rather than purchase these services from outside vendors due to budget constraints or excess engineering capacity; The challenges of developing (or acquiring externally developed) technology solutions, including hardware offerings, that are adequate and competitive in meeting the rapidly evolving requirements of next-generation design challenges; The significant number of current and potential competitors in the EDA industry and the low cost of entry; Intense competition to attract acquisition targets, possibly making it more difficult for us to acquire companies or technologies at an acceptable price, or at all; The combination of two or more of our EDA competitors or collaboration among many EDA companies to deliver more comprehensive offerings than they could individually; and Aggressive pricing competition by some of our competitors may cause us to lose our competitive position, which could result in lower revenues or profitability and could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our software or hardware systems products. We compete in the EDA market most frequently with Synopsys, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation, but also with numerous other EDA providers (such as Ansys, Inc., Atrenta, Inc., ATopTech, Inc., Berkeley Design Automation, Inc. and Zuken Ltd. and many others offering "point solutions"), with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed, acquired or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics design and consulting companies. In the area of Design IP, we compete with Synopsys and numerous smaller IP companies. During fiscal 2012, Synopsys acquired Magma Design Automation, Inc., EVE SA and Springsoft, Inc. We expect that Synopsys' integration of these companies into its product offerings will result in increased competitive pressures that could harm our business, results of operations or cash flows. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. Competitive pressures could constrain the prices we can charge for our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The highly competitive markets in which we do business can put pressure on us to reduce the prices of our products. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products in an effort to recapture or gain market share or to sell other software or hardware products, we may then need to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully. Any such changes would be likely to reduce our profit margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Any substantial changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause sales and software license revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for our products. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the number of sales or with lower spending, then the reduced license revenues resulting from lower prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Risks associated with our international operations could seriously harm our financial condition. A significant amount of our revenue is derived from our international operations and we have offices throughout the world, including key research and development facilities outside of the United States. Our international operations may be subject to a number of risks, including: The adoption or expansion of government trade restrictions, including tariffs and other trade barriers; Limitations on repatriation of earnings; Limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies; Reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; Performance of national economies; Longer collection periods for receivables and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; Difficulties in managing foreign operations; Political and economic instability; Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; Inability to continue to offer competitive compensation in certain growing regions; and United States' and other governments' licensing requirements for exports, which may lengthen the sales cycle or restrict or prohibit the sale or licensing of certain products. Some of our international research and development and other facilities are in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the United States. Consequently, we may face a greater risk of business interruption as a result of terrorist acts or military conflicts than businesses located domestically. Furthermore, this potential harm is exacerbated because damage to or disruptions at our international research and development facilities could have a more significant adverse effect on our ability to develop new or improve existing products than other businesses that may only have sales offices or other less critical operations abroad. We are not insured for losses or interruptions caused by acts of war. Furthermore, our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Activities that interfere with our international connectivity, such as cyber hacking, the introduction of a virus into our computer systems or natural disasters near any of our international locations, could significantly interfere with our business operations. In addition, internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not prevent our employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the laws and regulations applicable to our worldwide operations. We depend upon our management team and key employees, and our failure to attract, train, motivate and retain management and key employees may make us less competitive in our industries and therefore harm our results of operations. Our business depends upon the continued services, efforts and abilities of our senior management and other key employees. Competition for highly skilled executive officers and employees can be intense, particularly in geographic areas recognized as high technology centers such as the Silicon Valley area, where our principal offices are located, and in other locations where we maintain facilities. We may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring and departure of executive officers, and as a result, we may experience disruption to our business that may harm our operating results and our relationships with our employees, customers and suppliers may be adversely affected. To attract, retain and motivate individuals with the requisite expertise, we may be required to grant large numbers of stock options or other stock-based incentive awards, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders and increase compensation expense, and pay significant base salaries and cash bonuses, which could harm our operating results. The high cost of training new employees, not fully utilizing these employees, or losing trained employees to competing employers could also reduce our operating margins and harm our business or operating results. In addition, applicable rules and regulations require stockholder approval for new equity compensation plans and significant amendments to existing equity compensation plans (including increases in shares available for issuance under such plans), and prohibit publicly-traded companies from giving a proxy to vote on equity compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions. These rules and regulations could make it more difficult for us to grant equity compensation to employees in the future. To the extent that these regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant equity compensation to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could materially and adversely affect our business. 13 Table of Contents We may not receive significant revenue from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing EDA products and IP and integrating acquired technology into existing platforms is expensive, and these investments often require a long time to generate returns. Our strategy involves significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain and improve our competitive position. However, we cannot ensure that we will receive significant, if any, revenue from these investments. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses and may not realize the expected benefits of these acquisitions. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses in the future. While we expect to carefully analyze each potential acquisition before committing to the transaction, we may not consummate any particular transaction, but may nonetheless incur significant costs, or if a transaction is consummated, we may not be able to integrate and manage acquired products and businesses effectively or to integrate and retain key personnel from the acquired companies or businesses. In addition, acquisitions involve a number of risks. If any of the following acquisition-related risks occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be seriously harmed: The failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; The failure to retain key employees of the acquired business; Difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit; The substantial diversion of management's attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating these transactions and integrating an acquired business; The discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of unanticipated liabilities assumed from the acquired business or of assets acquired, such that we cannot realize the anticipated value of the acquisition; Difficulties related to integrating the products of an acquired business in, for example, distribution, engineering, licensing models and customer support areas; Unanticipated costs; Customer dissatisfaction with existing license agreements with us, possibly dissuading them from licensing or buying products acquired by us after the effective date of the license; and The failure to understand and compete effectively in markets where we have limited experience. In a number of our completed acquisitions, we have agreed to make future payments, either in the form of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments based on the performance of the acquired businesses or the employees who joined us with the acquired businesses. We may continue to use contingent purchase price payments in connection with acquisitions in the future. The performance goals pursuant to which these future payments may be made generally relate to achievement by the acquired business, or by the employees who joined us with the acquired business of certain specified bookings, revenue, run rate, product proliferation, product development or employee retention goals during a specified period following completion of the applicable acquisition. Future acquisitions may involve issuances of stock as full or partial payment of the purchase price for the acquired business, grants of incentive stock or options to employees of the acquired businesses (which may be dilutive to existing stockholders), expenditure of substantial cash resources or the incurrence of material amounts of debt. These arrangements may impact our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. The specific performance goal levels and amounts and timing of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments vary with each acquisition. While we expect to derive value from an acquisition in excess of such contingent payment obligations, our strategy may change and we may be required to make certain contingent payments without deriving the anticipated value. We rely on our proprietary technology, as well as software and other intellectual property rights licensed to us by third parties, and we cannot assure you that the precautions taken to protect our rights will be adequate or that we will continue to be able to adequately secure such intellectual property rights from third parties. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Despite the precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, third parties have tried in the past, and may try in the future, to challenge, invalidate or circumvent these safeguards. Our patents or other intellectual property rights may not provide us with sufficient competitive advantages. Patents may not be issued on any of our pending applications and our issued patents may not 14 Table of Contents be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent as applicable law protects these rights in the United States. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights, or deter or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. Many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new or renew existing licenses for such software and other intellectual property in the future. Our engineering services business holds licenses to certain software and other intellectual property owned by third parties, including that of our competitors. Our failure to obtain software, other intellectual property licenses or other intellectual property rights that are necessary or helpful for our business on favorable terms, or our need to engage in litigation over these licenses or rights, could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We could suffer serious harm to our business because of the infringement of our intellectual property rights by third parties or because of our infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. There are numerous EDA, VIP and design IP product-related patents. New patents are being issued at a rapid rate and are owned by EDA companies as well as entities and individuals outside the EDA industry, including parties whose income is primarily derived from infringement-related litigation. It is not always practicable to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes the patent rights of others. As a result, from time to time, we may be compelled to respond to or prosecute intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights or defend a customer's rights. Intellectual property infringement claims, including contractual defense reimbursement obligations related to third-party claims against our customers, regardless of merit, could consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation or cause product shipment delays, all of which could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. The risk of infringement and related indemnification claims associated with design IP products that are incorporated into a customer product broadly used by consumers, may be higher than the risk associated with our software products. In settling these claims, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not have terms favorable to us. Being compelled to enter into a license agreement with unfavorable terms could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Any potential intellectual property litigation could compel us to do one or more of the following: Pay damages (including the potential for treble damages), license fees or royalties (including royalties for past periods) to the party claiming infringement; Stop licensing products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property; Obtain a license from the owner of the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or Redesign the challenged technology, which could be time consuming and costly, or not be accomplished. If we were compelled to take any of these actions, our business or operating results may suffer. Our operating results and revenue could be adversely affected by customer payment delays, customer bankruptcies and defaults or modifications of licenses. Occasionally, our customers file for bankruptcy or request to modify license terms. If our customers experience adversity in their business, they may delay or default on their payment obligations to us, file for bankruptcy or modify or cancel plans to license our products. For instance, if our customers are not successful in generating sufficient cash or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us, although these obligations are generally not cancelable. Our customers' inability to fulfill payment obligations, in turn, may adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. Additionally, our customers may seek to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments. Payment defaults by our customers or significant reductions in existing contractual commitments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Because of the relatively high levels of volatility that continue to drive significant fluctuations in asset prices, as well as concern regarding high levels of leverage in sovereign and corporate debt, the capital and credit markets are volatile and unpredictable. If we were to seek funding from the capital or credit markets in response to any material level of customer defaults, we may not be able to secure funding on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which may have a material negative effect on our business. 15 Table of Contents If our security measures are breached and an unauthorized party obtains access to customer data or our proprietary business information, our information systems may be perceived as being unsecure, which could harm our business and reputation. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of our proprietary information and that of our customers. We have offices throughout the world, including key research and development facilities outside of the United States. Our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber attacks or breached due to an employee error or other disruption that could result in unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information and could significantly interfere with our business operations. Breaches of our security measures could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage information systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, if we select a vendor that uses cyber storage of information as part of their service or product offerings, despite our attempts to validate the security of such services, our proprietary information may be misappropriated by third parties. In the event of an actual or perceived breach of our security, or the security of one of our vendors, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could suffer damage to our reputation or our business, or lose existing customers and lose our ability to obtain new customers. The long sales cycle of our products and services may cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly. Generally, we have a long sales cycle that can extend up to six months or longer. The complexity and expense associated with our products and services generally require a lengthy customer education, evaluation and approval process. Consequently, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management effort and expense to develop potential relationships that do not result in agreements or revenue and may prevent us from pursuing other opportunities. In addition, sales of our products and services have been and may in the future be delayed if customers delay approval or commencement of projects because of: The timing of customers' competitive evaluation processes; or Customers' budgetary constraints and budget cycles. Long sales cycles for acceleration and emulation hardware products subject us to a number of significant risks over which we have limited control, including insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory, variations in inventory valuation and fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles, and we may incur significant costs to adjust our accounting systems and processes to comply with significant changes. United States generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. During fiscal 2010, the FASB issued exposure drafts of proposed accounting principles related to revenue recognition and leases which could change the way we account for certain of our transactions. The FASB issued a revised exposure draft of proposed accounting principles related to revenue recognition during fiscal 2011 and has continued to discuss these and other proposed accounting principles during fiscal 2012. A change in these or other principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. In addition, the SEC is considering a multi-year plan that could ultimately lead to the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by United States issuers in their SEC filings. Any such change could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. In addition, we may need to significantly change our accounting systems and processes if we are required to adopt the proposed changes in accounting principles noted above. The cost of these changes may negatively impact our results of operations during the periods of transition. 16 Table of Contents We have substantial cash requirements in the United States, but a significant portion of our cash is held and generated outside of the United States, and if our cash available in the United States and the cash available under our revolving credit facility is insufficient to meet our operating expenses and debt repayment obligations in the United States, then we may be required to raise cash in ways that could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. We have significant operations outside the United States. As of December 29, 2012 , approximately 50% of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balance was held by subsidiaries outside the United States, with the remainder of the balance held by us or our subsidiaries in the United States. We believe that the combination of our existing United States cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances, future United States operating cash flows and cash available under our revolving credit facility, are sufficient to meet our ongoing United States operating expenses and debt repayment obligations. However, if these sources of cash were insufficient to meet our future funding obligations in the United States, we could be required to seek other available funding sources which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and the market price of our common stock. The investment of our cash, cash equivalents and investments in money market funds and marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. Our investments include various money market funds and marketable debt securities such as corporate debt securities, United States Treasury securities, United States government agency securities, bank certificates of deposit and commercial paper. Weakened financial markets have at times adversely impacted the general credit, liquidity, market prices and interest rates for these and other types of debt securities. Additionally, changes in monetary policy by the Federal Open Market Committee and concerns about the rising United States government debt level may cause a decrease in the purchasing power of the United States dollar and adversely affect our investment portfolio. The financial market and monetary risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows. Our operating results could be adversely affected as a result of changes in our effective tax rates or by material differences between our forecasted annual effective tax rates and actual tax rates. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the following: Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including potential United States and international tax reforms; Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the United States federal and state statutory tax rates; An increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation and impairment of goodwill; Changes in the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets; Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information that results in a recognition, derecognition or change in measurement of a tax position taken in a prior period; Increases to interest or penalty expenses classified in the financial statements as income taxes; New accounting standards or interpretations of such standards; A change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings outside the United States; or Results of tax examinations by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and state and foreign tax authorities. Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. Forecasts of our annual effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of estimating our annual income or loss, the mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as benefits from available deferred tax assets, the impact of various accounting rules and results of tax audits. Forecasts of our annual effective tax rate do not include the anticipation of future tax law changes. If there were a material difference between forecasted and actual tax rates then it could have a material impact on our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents The IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our tax returns, and the outcome of current and future tax examinations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. The IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns. The calculation of our provision (benefit) for income taxes requires us to use significant judgment and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations. In determining the adequacy of our provision (benefit) for income taxes, we regularly assess the potential settlement outcomes resulting from income tax examinations. However, the final outcome of tax examinations, including the total amount payable or the timing of any such payments upon resolution of these issues, cannot be estimated with certainty. In addition, we cannot be certain that such amount will not be materially different from the amount that is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes as a result of a current or a future examination, we may be required to record charges to operations in future periods that could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows in the applicable period or periods. Our restructuring plans may not result in the benefits we have anticipated, possibly having a negative effect on our future operating results. In recent fiscal years, we have initiated restructuring plans in an effort to decrease costs by reducing our workforce and by consolidating facilities. The only remaining activities in our restructuring plans relate to facilities vacated as part of these plans. Our restructuring plans may also subject us to litigation risks and expenses. In addition, our restructuring plans may have other consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce, a negative effect on employee morale or our ability to attract highly skilled employees. Our competitors may also seek to gain a competitive advantage over us. The restructuring plans could also cause our remaining employees to leave or result in reduced productivity by our employees, and, in turn, this may affect our revenue and other operating results in the future. Failure to obtain export licenses could harm our business by rendering us unable to ship products and transfer our technology outside of the United States. We must comply with regulations of the United States and of certain other countries in shipping our software products and transferring our technology outside the United States and to foreign nationals. Any significant future difficulty in complying could harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Errors or defects in our products and services could expose us to liability and harm our reputation. Our customers use our products and services in designing and developing products that involve a high degree of technological complexity, each of which has its own specifications. Because of the complexity of the systems and products with which we work, some of our products and designs can be adequately tested only when put to full use in the marketplace. As a result, our customers or their end users may discover errors or defects in our software or the systems we design, or the products or systems incorporating our design and intellectual property may not operate as expected. Errors or defects could result in: Loss of customers; Loss of market share; Failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; Diversion of development resources to resolve the problem; Loss of or delay in revenue; Increased service costs; and Liability for damages. If we become subject to unfair hiring claims, we could be prevented from hiring needed employees, incur liability for damages and incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. Companies in our industry that lose employees to competitors frequently claim that these competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that the employment of these persons would involve the disclosure or use of trade secrets. These claims could prevent us from hiring employees or cause us to incur liability for damages. We could also incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against these claims, regardless of their merits. Defending ourselves from these claims could also divert the attention of our management away from our operations. 18 Table of Contents Anti-takeover defenses in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions under Delaware law could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that apply to us could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. For example: Our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue, at any time and without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as it may determine. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. However, the rights of holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with a person owning 15% or more of its voting stock, or who is affiliated with the corporation and owned 15% or more of its voting stock at any time within three years prior to the proposed business combination, for a period of three years from the date the person became a 15% owner, unless specified conditions are met. All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and could allow our Board of Directors to resist, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if a proposed transaction were favored by a majority of our independent stockholders. Our business is subject to the risk of earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations and certain of our distribution facilities, is located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known to experience seismic activity. If significant seismic activity were to occur, our operations may be interrupted, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our other offices in the United States and in other countries around the world may be adversely impacted by natural disasters. If a natural disaster occurs at or near any of our offices, our operations may be interrupted, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. If a natural disaster impacts a significant number of our customers, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Risks Related to Our Securities and Indebtedness Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness. We have a substantial level of debt, and we currently have the ability to borrow an additional $250 million under a credit facility. As of December 29, 2012 , we had outstanding indebtedness with a principal balance of $494.7 million as follows: $350.0 million related to our 2.625% cash convertible senior notes due 2015, or our 2015 Notes; $144.5 million related to our 1.500% convertible senior notes due December 15, 2013, or our 2013 Notes; and $0.2 million related to our zero coupon zero yield senior convertible notes due 2023, or our 2023 Notes. The level of our current or future indebtedness, among other things, could: Make it difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations on our debt as described above; Make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; Reduce funds available for use in our operations or for developments or acquisitions of new technologies; Make it difficult for us to incur additional debt or obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; Impose additional operating or financial covenants on us; Limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; or Place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have greater access to capital resources. We have entered into a $250 million five-year senior secured revolving credit facility. As of December 29, 2012 , we do not have any borrowings outstanding under the credit facility, but we may draw down on the facility in the future to finance working 19 Table of Contents capital, capital expenditures, mergers and acquisitions and other business purposes, which would increase our indebtedness. Any outstanding loans drawn under this agreement are payable on or before December 12, 2017 . We have the option to increase the maximum borrowings on our credit facility up to an additional $150 million if our lenders approve our request. The credit facility contains customary negative covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens and make certain investments, complete acquisitions, dispose of certain assets and make certain payments, including dividends. In addition, the credit facility contains certain financial covenants that require us to maintain a leverage ratio of not greater than 3 to 1, subject to certain exceptions, and requires that we maintain an interest coverage ratio of at least 3 to 1. These financial covenants could limit our flexibility in conducting our business, and any borrowings outstanding under the credit facility could be accelerated if we fail to comply with these covenants. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under any other indebtedness as well. Additionally, in the event of a default, certain assets that secure the borrowings could be seized by our lenders, which could adversely impact our ability to operate. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines that permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us, potentially hindering our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and increasing our costs of registration. Conversion of our 2013 Notes and 2015 Notes prior to the scheduled maturities of the notes may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Holders of our 2013 Notes and 2015 Notes may convert their notes into cash prior to the scheduled maturities if any of the conversion conditions for those notes are met. The 2015 Notes are convertible into cash only and the 2013 Notes are convertible into a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. In order for the 2015 Notes to be convertible into cash in a particular fiscal quarter, a conversion condition must be met during the preceding fiscal quarter. During the three months ended December 29, 2012 our closing stock price exceeded $9.81 for at least 20 of the last 30 trading days prior to December 29, 2012 . As a result, the 2015 Notes are convertible into cash from December 30, 2012 through March 30, 2013 and we have classified our 2015 Notes as a current liability on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 29, 2012 . The 2013 Notes are not currently convertible. So long as the 2015 Notes are outstanding, we will assess whether this conversion condition has been met at the end of each fiscal quarter. If a conversion condition is met in any future fiscal quarter, we would classify our 2015 Notes as a current liability on our consolidated balance sheet as of the end of that fiscal quarter. If one or more of the 2013 or 2015 Note holders elect to convert their notes at a time when the conversion conditions have been met, we would be required to settle the converted principal and, in the case of the 2015 Notes, the conversion value, through payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. At the option of the holders of the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes, under certain circumstances we may be required to repurchase the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes in cash. Under the terms of the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes, we may be required to repurchase the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes following a "fundamental change" in our corporate ownership or structure, such as a change of control in which substantially all of the consideration does not consist of publicly traded securities, prior to maturity of the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes. The repurchase price for the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes in the event of a fundamental change must be paid solely in cash. This repayment obligation may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company. Payment of the notes prior to their scheduled maturities could have a significant negative impact on our cash and liquidity and could impact our ability to invest financial resources in other strategic initiatives. Hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes may affect the value of our common stock. We entered into hedge transactions with various financial institutions, at the time of issuance of the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes, with the objective of limiting the potential dilutive effect of issuing our common stock upon conversion of the 2013 Notes and our exposure to the additional cash payments above the principal amount upon conversion of the 2015 Notes. We also entered into separate warrant transactions with the same financial institutions. In connection with our hedge and warrant transactions associated with the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes, these financial institutions purchased our common stock in secondary market 20 Table of Contents transactions and entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. These entities or their affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, other of our securities or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. Any of these transactions and activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and, as a result, the number of shares and the value of the common stock that the 2013 Note holders will receive upon conversion of the 2013 Notes and the amount of cash that 2015 Notes holders will receive upon conversion of the 2015 Notes. We are subject to the risk that the hedge participants fail to fulfill their obligations under the 2013 Notes hedge transactions and the 2015 Notes hedge transactions. If any of the participants in the hedge transactions is unwilling or unable to perform its obligations for any reason, we would not be able to receive the benefit of such transaction. We cannot provide any assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the participants in the hedge transactions. Our 2015 Notes were convertible as of December 29, 2012 . The convertible note hedge transactions in connection with the 2015 Notes, or the 2015 Notes Hedges, are intended to reduce our exposure above the $350.0 million principal balance in the event of a cash conversion of the 2015 Notes. If the hedge participants fail to meet their obligations for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Rating agencies may provide unsolicited ratings on the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes that could reduce the market value or liquidity of our 2013 Notes, 2015 Notes or our common stock. We have not requested a rating of the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes from any rating agency and we do not anticipate that the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes will be rated. However, if one or more rating agencies independently elects to rate the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes and assigns the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes a rating lower than the rating expected by investors, or reduces such rating in the future, the market price or liquidity of the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, and our common stock could be harmed. Should a decline occur in the market price of the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as compared to the price of our common stock, this may trigger the right of the holders of the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes to convert such notes into cash and shares of our common stock, as applicable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties We own land and buildings at our headquarters located in San Jose, California. We also own buildings in India. As of December 29, 2012 , the total square footage of our owned buildings was approximately 965,000 . We lease additional facilities in the United States and various other countries. We sublease certain of these facilities where space is not fully utilized or has been impacted as part of our restructuring plans. We believe that these facilities are adequate for our current needs and that suitable additional or substitute space will be available as needed to accommodate any expansion of our operations. Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we are involved in various disputes and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, indemnification obligations, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contracts, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. At least quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount or the range of loss can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based on our judgments using the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation matters and may revise our estimates. On April 23, 2012, the United States District Court entered final approval of the settlements of our then-pending derivative and securities litigation, and dismissed those lawsuits. See Note 15 in the notes to consolidated financial statements for an additional description of our legal proceedings and these settlements. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 21 Table of Contents PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Common Stock Market Price Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CDNS. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock in the past, and we do not plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As described in Note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, our revolving credit facility restricts certain payments, including dividends. As of February 2, 2013, we had approximately 795 registered stockholders and approximately 38,483 beneficial owners of our common stock. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for Cadence common stock for each fiscal quarter in the two-year period ended December 29, 2012 : 2012 High Low Fourth Quarter $ 13.61 $ 11.61 Third Quarter 13.79 10.83 Second Quarter 12.16 9.73 First Quarter 12.60 9.84 2011 Fourth Quarter $ 11.72 $ 8.71 Third Quarter 10.86 8.09 Second Quarter 11.07 8.96 First Quarter 10.28 8.20 22 Table of Contents Stockholder Return Performance Graphs The following graph compares the cumulative 5-year total stockholder return on our common stock relative to the cumulative total return of the NASDAQ Composite index and the S&P 400 Information Technology index. The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and in each index (including reinvestment of dividends) was $100 on December 29, 2007 and tracks it through December 29, 2012 . 12/29/2007 1/3/2009 1/2/2010 1/1/2011 12/31/2011 12/29/2012 Cadence Design Systems, Inc. 100.00 22.55 35.17 48.50 61.07 78.92 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 59.03 82.25 97.32 98.63 110.78 S&P 400 Information Technology 100.00 54.60 82.76 108.11 95.48 109.88 The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance 23 Table of Contents The following graph compares the cumulative 4-year total stockholder return on our common stock relative to the cumulative total return of the NASDAQ Composite index and the S&P 400 Information Technology index. The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and in each index (including reinvestment of dividends) was $100 on January 3, 2009 and tracks it through December 29, 2012 . 1/3/2009 1/2/2010 1/1/2011 12/31/2011 12/29/2012 Cadence Design Systems, Inc. 100.00 155.99 215.10 270.83 350.00 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 139.32 164.84 167.06 187.66 S&P 400 Information Technology 100.00 151.58 198.02 174.88 201.26 The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 24 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities In February 2008, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase shares of our common stock in the open market with a value of up to $500.0 million in the aggregate. In August 2008, our Board of Directors authorized another program to repurchase shares of our common stock in the open market with a value of up to an additional $500.0 million in the aggregate. As described in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, our revolving credit facility restricts certain payments, including share repurchases. We did not repurchase any shares under these repurchase programs during fiscal 2012, and $814.4 million remains under our repurchase authorizations as of December 29, 2012. The following table presents repurchases and shares surrendered by employees to satisfy income tax withholding obligations during the three months ended December 29, 2012 . Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plan or Program Maximum Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under Publicly Announced Plan or Program (1) (In millions) September 30, 2012 November 3, 2012 9,050 $ 12.67 $ 814.4 November 4, 2012 December 1, 2012 138,294 $ 12.78 $ 814.4 December 2, 2012 December 29, 2012 4,272 $ 13.40 $ 814.4 Total 151,616 $ 12.79 _________________ (1) Shares purchased that were not part of our publicly announced repurchase programs represent employee surrender of shares of restricted stock to satisfy employee income tax withholding obligations due upon vesting, and do not reduce the dollar value that may yet be purchased under our publicly announced repurchase programs. 25 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data-Unaudited The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and the information contained in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. The notes below the table are provided for comparability purposes due to adoptions of accounting pronouncements on a prospective basis from the date of adoption or to describe significant transactions that may not occur frequently. Five fiscal years ended December 29, 2012 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, except per share amounts) Revenue (1) $ 1,326.4 $ 1,149.8 $ 936.0 $ 852.6 $ 1,038.6 Income (loss) from operations (1) (2) (3) 211.7 120.4 (29.0 ) (123.6 ) (1,573.3 ) Net income (loss) (1) (2) (3) (4) 439.9 72.2 126.5 (149.9 ) (1,856.7 ) Net income (loss) per share-assuming dilution (1) (2) (3) (4) 1.57 0.27 0.48 (0.58 ) (7.30 ) Total assets (2) 2,287.0 1,761.3 1,732.1 1,410.6 1,679.9 Convertible notes 447.0 426.0 549.7 436.0 416.6 Stockholders' equity (2) 915.2 411.1 276.7 108.4 186.7 _________________ (1) We adopted new revenue recognition accounting standards on January 2, 2011 for revenue arrangements that include both hardware and software elements. For an additional description of our revenue recognition, see Note 2 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. (2) During fiscal 2008, we recorded a $1,317.2 million impairment of goodwill, a $47.1 million impairment of intangible and tangible assets and a $326.0 million valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. (3) During fiscal 2010, we recorded a $147.9 million benefit for income taxes due to the effective settlement of the IRS examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2000 through 2002. We also recognized a $66.7 million benefit for income taxes due to the release of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance primarily resulting from the increase in deferred tax liabilities from the intangible assets acquired with our acquisition of Denali Software, Inc., or Denali. (4) During fiscal 2012, we recorded a $219.6 million benefit for income taxes due to the release of a substantial portion of the remaining United States deferred tax asset valuation allowance and a $36.7 million benefit for income taxes due to the effective settlement of State of California Franchise Tax Board examination of our California income tax returns for the tax years 2001 through 2003. For an additional description of, and disclosures regarding, our income tax provision or benefit, see Note 6 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and with Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors." Please refer to the cautionary language at the beginning of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding forward-looking statements. Business Overview We develop EDA software, hardware and IP. We license software and IP, sell or lease hardware technology, provide maintenance for our offerings and provide engineering and education services to help manage and accelerate product development processes for semiconductor and electronics systems companies. Our customers use our products and services to design and develop complex ICs and electronics systems. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from semiconductor and electronics systems manufacturers and designers and is dependent upon their commencement of new design projects. As a result, our revenue is significantly influenced by our customers' business outlook and investment in the introduction of new products and the improvement of existing products. 26 Table of Contents We have identified certain items that management uses as performance indicators to manage our business, including revenue, certain elements of operating expenses and cash flow from operations, and we describe these items further below under the heading "Results of Operations" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources." Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income (loss) and net income, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. At least quarterly, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates, and make changes as deemed necessary. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for income taxes, revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, business combinations, intangible asset and goodwill impairments and fair value of financial instruments have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements; therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting estimates. For information on our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Accounting for Income Taxes We provide for the effect of income taxes in our consolidated financial statements using the asset and liability method. We also apply a two-step approach to determine the financial statement recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions. We must make significant assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision (benefit) for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance to be recorded against our deferred tax assets. Our judgments, assumptions and estimates relating to the current provision (benefit) for income taxes include the geographic mix and amount of income (loss), our interpretation of current tax laws, and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. Our judgments also include anticipating the tax positions we will take on tax returns before actually preparing and filing the tax returns. Changes in our business, tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws, and developments in current and future tax audits, could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to tax benefit carryforwards and to differences between the financial statement amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. To make this judgment, we must make predictions of the amount and category of taxable income from various sources and weigh all available positive and negative evidence about these possible sources of taxable income. We give greater weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. For the year ended December 29, 2012, we judged that our history of operating profits in the United States, and our expectations of future profits, considering our software ratable revenue recognition model and ending backlog of revenue as of December 29, 2012 were sufficient positive evidence to release a significant portion of the valuation allowance against our United States deferred tax assets. However, if in the future, we determine that we no longer meet the realization threshold for some or all of our deferred tax assets then we would need to establish a valuation allowance that could result in a material provision for income taxes in the period such determination is made. For an additional description of the valuation allowance, see Note 6 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 27 Table of Contents We only recognize the tax benefit of an income tax position if we judge that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained, solely on its technical merits, in a tax audit including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. To make this judgment, we must interpret complex and sometimes ambiguous tax laws, regulations and administrative practices. If we judge that an income tax position meets this recognition threshold, then we must measure the amount of the tax benefit to be recognized by estimating the largest amount of tax benefit that has a greater than 50% cumulative probability of being realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all of the relevant facts. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as this requires us to determine the probability of various possible settlement outcomes. To determine when a tax position is effectively settled, we must estimate the likelihood that a taxing authority would re-review a tax position after a tax examination has otherwise been completed. We must also determine when it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease in the 12 months after each fiscal year-end. These judgments are difficult because a taxing authority may change its behavior as a result of our disclosures in our financial statements or for other reasons. In addition, we are required by the IRS to disclose uncertain tax positions taken on our federal tax returns. We must reevaluate our income tax positions on a quarterly basis to consider factors such as changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. For the year ended December 29, 2012, we made the judgment that we had effectively settled certain tax positions related to the State of California Franchise Tax Board, or the FTB, examination of our California tax returns for the 2001 through 2003 tax years that resulted in the recognition of a tax benefit. For additional descriptions of our effective settlements, see Note 6 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition We begin to recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met: We have persuasive evidence of an arrangement with a customer; Delivery has occurred; The fee for the arrangement is considered to be fixed or determinable at the outset of the arrangement; and Collectibility of the fee is probable. Significant judgment is involved in the determination of whether the facts and circumstances of an arrangement support that the fee for the arrangement is considered to be fixed or determinable and that collectibility of the fee is probable, and these judgments can affect the amount of revenue that we recognize in a particular reporting period. We must also make these judgments when assessing whether a contract amendment to a term arrangement (primarily in the context of a license extension or renewal) constitutes a concession. Our experience has been that we are able to determine whether a fee is fixed or determinable, and we have established a history of collecting under contracts for which the fee has been assessed as fixed or determinable without providing concessions on payments, products or services. For installment contracts that do not include a substantial up-front payment, we consider that a fee is fixed or determinable only if the arrangement has payment periods that are equal to or less than the term of the licenses and the payments are collected in equal or nearly equal installments, when evaluated over the entire term of the arrangement. While we do not expect our experience to change, if we no longer were to have a history of collecting under the original contract without providing concessions on term licenses, revenue from term licenses would be required to be recognized when payments under the installment contract become due and payable. Such a change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Generally, we are able to estimate whether collection is probable, but significant judgment is applied as we assess the creditworthiness of our customers to make this determination. If our experience were to change, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If, in our judgment, collection of a fee is not probable, we do not record revenue until the uncertainty is removed, which is generally upon receipt of cash payment. In general, revenue for product and maintenance associated with term and subscription licenses is recognized ratably over the term of the license, commencing upon the later of the effective date of the arrangement or delivery of the first software product. The allocation of revenue to maintenance is based on a percentage of the total contract value, as determined by the length of the contract. In general, product revenue associated with term and perpetual licenses where vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, exists for the undelivered maintenance is recognized up-front, upon the later of the effective date of the arrangement or delivery of the software product, provided all other conditions for revenue recognition have been met, and maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the maintenance term. A relatively small percentage of our revenue from software licenses is recognized on an up-front basis. Sale of our hardware products generally involves the following deliverables: the hardware product and its related essential software, and maintenance for the hardware and the software. Consideration allocated to the hardware product and the essential 28 Table of Contents software is recognized as revenue at the time of delivery, provided all other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Consideration allocated to the maintenance is recognized ratably over the maintenance term. Revenue from services contracts is recognized either on the time and materials method, as work is performed, or on the percentage-of-completion method. If a service contract is considered to be part of a multiple element arrangement, or MEA, that includes a software contract, revenue is generally recognized ratably over the duration of the software contract. For contracts with fixed or not-to-exceed fees, we estimate on a monthly basis the percentage of completion based on the completion of milestones relating to the arrangement. We have a history of accurately estimating project status and the costs necessary to complete projects. A number of internal and external factors can affect our estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances, and specification and testing requirement changes. If different conditions were to prevail such that accurate estimates could not be made, then the use of the completed contract method would be required and the recognition of all revenue and costs would be deferred until the project was completed. Such a change could have a material impact on our results of operations. If a group of contracts is so closely related that they are, in effect, part of a single arrangement, such arrangements are deemed to be an MEA. We exercise significant judgment to evaluate the relevant facts and circumstances in determining whether the separate contracts should be accounted for individually as distinct arrangements or whether the separate contracts are, in substance, an MEA. Our judgments about whether a group of contracts is an MEA can affect the timing of revenue recognition under those contracts, which could have an effect on our results of operations for the periods involved. For example, a term or perpetual license agreement that would otherwise result in up-front revenue upon delivery may be deemed part of an MEA when it is executed within close proximity, or in contemplation of, other license agreements that require ratable revenue recognition with the same customer, in which event all the revenue is recognized over the longest term of any component of the MEA instead of up-front. For an MEA that includes software and nonsoftware elements, we allocate consideration to all software elements as a group and all nonsoftware elements based on their relative standalone selling prices. Revenue allocated to each deliverable is then recognized when all four criteria are met. In these circumstances, there is a hierarchy to determine the standalone selling price to be used for allocating consideration to the deliverables as follows: Vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value, or VSOE; Third-party evidence of selling price, or TPE; and Best estimate of the selling price, or BESP. We calculate the BESP of our hardware products based on our pricing practices, including the historical average prices charged for comparable hardware products, because VSOE or TPE cannot be established. Our process for determining BESP for our software deliverables without VSOE or TPE takes into account multiple factors that vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. Key external and internal factors considered in developing the BESPs include prices charged by us for similar arrangements, historical pricing practices and the nature of the product. In addition, when developing BESPs, we may consider other factors as appropriate, including the pricing of competitive alternatives if they exist, and product-specific business objectives. We exercise significant judgment to evaluate the relevant facts and circumstances in calculating the BESP of the deliverables in our arrangements. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We make judgments as to our ability to collect outstanding receivables and provide allowances for a portion of receivables when collection becomes doubtful. This allowance is based on our assessment of the creditworthiness of our customers, historical experience and the overall economic climate of the industries that we serve. While we believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate, we continue to monitor customer liquidity and other economic conditions, which may result in changes to our estimates regarding our ability to collect from our customers. Changes in circumstances, such as an unexpected change in a customer's ability to meet its financial obligation to us or a customer's payment trends, or a downward trend in the volume of business in the semiconductor sector, are hard to predict and may require us to adjust our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 29 Table of Contents Business Combinations When we acquire businesses, we allocate the purchase price to acquired tangible assets and liabilities, including deferred revenue, liabilities associated with the fair value of contingent consideration and acquired identifiable intangible assets. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price requires us to make significant estimates in determining the fair values of these acquired assets and assumed liabilities, especially with respect to intangible assets and goodwill. These estimates are based on information obtained from management of the acquired companies, our assessment of this information, and historical experience. These estimates can include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an acquired business is expected to generate in the future, the cash flows that specific assets acquired with that business are expected to generate in the future, the appropriate weighted-average cost of capital, and the cost savings expected to be derived from acquiring an asset. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable, and if different estimates were used, the purchase price for the acquisition could be allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities differently from the allocation that we have made to the acquired assets and liabilities. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates, and if such events occur, we may be required to adjust the value allocated to acquired assets or assumed liabilities. We also make significant judgments and estimates when we assign useful lives to the definite lived intangible assets identified as part of our acquisitions. These estimates are inherently uncertain and if we used different estimates, the useful life over which we amortize intangible assets would be different. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may impact the useful life over which we amortize our intangible assets, which would impact our amortization of intangible assets expense and our results of operations. Intangible Asset and Goodwill Impairments We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, including certain intangibles, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that we will not be able to recover an asset group's carrying amount. Recoverability of an asset group is measured by comparing its carrying amount to the expected future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of that asset group, excluding future interest costs that would be recognized as an expense when incurred. Any impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair market value. Significant management judgment is required in: Identifying a triggering event that arises from a change in circumstances; Forecasting future operating results; and Estimating the proceeds, if any, from the disposition of long-lived or intangible asset group. We test goodwill for impairment annually, or whenever events and changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The test is performed at the reporting unit level by comparing the reporting unit's carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit is estimated and if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered to be impaired and a second step is performed to measure the amount of the impairment loss. We completed our annual goodwill impairment test during the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and determined that the fair value of our single reporting unit substantially exceeded the carrying amount of our net assets and that no impairment existed. Fair Value of Financial Instruments On a quarterly basis, we measure at fair value certain financial assets and liabilities, including the hedge and embedded conversion derivative associated with the 2.625% Cash Convertible Senior Notes Due 2015. Inputs to valuation techniques are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our market assumptions. These two types of inputs have created the following fair value hierarchy: Level 1 - Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets; Level 2 - Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets; and Level 3 - Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable. 30 Table of Contents This hierarchy requires us to minimize the use of unobservable inputs and to use observable market data, if available, when determining fair value. We recognize transfers between levels of this hierarchy based on the fair values of the respective financial instruments at the end of the reporting period in which the transfer occurred. The types of instruments that trade in markets that are not considered to be active, but are valued based on quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency, are generally classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Certain instruments are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy because they trade infrequently and therefore have little or no price transparency. For those instruments that are not traded in active markets or are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and/or non-transferability, and such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, our best estimate is used. While we believe the observable inputs we use to measure the assets and liabilities included in Level 2 and the unobservable inputs we use to measure the assets and liabilities included in Level 3 are reasonable, different inputs or estimates may materially impact the resulting fair value measurements of these instruments and may also impact our results of operations. For an additional description of our fair value measurements see Note 8 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations Financial results for fiscal 2012, as compared to fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, reflect the following: An increase in the aggregate amount of our product and maintenance revenue, primarily because of a general increase in the annualized values of software contracts with our customers and an increase in the sale and lease of our hardware products; An increase in the cost of hardware products sold, primarily during fiscal 2011, as compared to fiscal 2010, driven by increases in the sale and lease of our hardware products; An increase in employee-related costs, primarily consisting of costs related to hiring additional employees during fiscal 2012 and incremental costs related to employees added from our acquisition of Sigrity, Inc., or Sigrity, during fiscal 2012 and employees added from our fiscal 2011 acquisitions; An increase in variable compensation due to increased revenue, bookings and operating performance; Net recoveries of amounts in our allowance for doubtful accounts recorded during fiscal 2010 and, to a lesser extent, fiscal 2011, from collection of certain receivables that had previously been reserved; The agreements we reached in February 2011 to settle our derivative and securities litigation and the associated $15.8 million litigation charge we recorded during fiscal 2010; and Benefits for income taxes in fiscal 2012 and 2010 related to the following: During fiscal 2012, the release of the valuation allowance for a significant portion of our United States deferred tax assets based on our determination that it is more likely than not that we will realize these deferred tax assets in future periods and from the effective settlement of the California Franchise Tax Board, or FTB, examination of our tax returns for the 2001 through 2003 tax years; and During fiscal 2010, the effective settlement of the IRS examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2000 through 2002 and the release of valuation allowance for our United States deferred tax assets that resulted from the increase in deferred tax liabilities from the intangible assets acquired with Denali during fiscal 2010. Revenue We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software and IP, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software, IP and hardware and providing engineering services. The timing of our product revenue is significantly affected by the mix of hardware and software products in the bookings executed in any given period and whether the revenue for such bookings is recognized over multiple periods or up-front, upon completion of delivery. 31 Table of Contents We seek to achieve a consistent mix of bookings with approximately 90% of the aggregate value of our bookings of a type for which the revenue is recurring, or ratable, in nature, and the remainder of the resulting revenue recognized up-front, upon completion of delivery. Our ability to achieve this bookings mix in any single fiscal quarter may be impacted by an increase in hardware sales beyond our current expectations, because product revenue for hardware sales is generally recognized up-front in the quarter in which delivery is completed. Approximately 90% of the aggregate value of our bookings during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 was of a type for which the revenue is recurring, or ratable, in nature. We believe our reported revenue and the amount of revenue recognized in future periods will depend on, among other things, the: Competitiveness of our new technology; and Size, duration, timing, terms and type of: Contract renewals with existing customers; Additional sales to existing customers; and Sales to new customers. Revenue Mix We analyze our software, VIP and Design IP and hardware businesses by product group, combining revenues for both product and maintenance because of their interrelationship. We have formulated a design solution strategy that combines our design technologies into categories, as described in the various product groups below: Functional Verification, Hardware and IP : Products in this group, including the Incisive functional verification platform are used to verify that the high-level, logical representation of an IC design is functionally correct, and for verification at the system and SoC levels. Our emulation hardware products, VIP products, memory sub-system models, and Design IP products are also included in this product group. Custom IC Design : Our custom design products, including the Virtuoso custom design platform, are used to create ICs that must be designed at the transistor level, including analog, RF, memory, high-performance digital blocks and standard cell libraries. Included in this group are specialized verification products that simulate the operation of the design prior to manufacturing. The final product of the design flow is a file that describes the various photomasks which are used to manufacture the IC. Digital IC Design : Products in this group, including the Encounter digital IC design platform, are used to create and convert the high-level, logical representation of a digital IC into a detailed physical blueprint, and ultimately, produce the detailed design information describing how the IC will be manufactured. The final product of the design flow is a file that describes the various photomasks which are used to manufacture the IC. System Interconnect Design : This product group consists of our PCB and IC package design products, including the Allegro and OrCAD products. The Allegro system interconnect design platform enables consistent co-design of interconnects across ICs, IC packages and PCBs, while the OrCAD line focuses on cost-effective, entry-level PCB solutions. The Sigrity signal and power integrity products we acquired during fiscal 2012 are included in this product group. Design for Manufacturing : Included in the DFM product group are our physical verification, manufacturing optimization, and layout analysis products. These products are used to analyze, optimize, and verify that the physical blueprint of the IC has been constructed correctly and can be manufactured successfully. While our primary focus in DFM is to address manufacturing effects in the upstream digital and custom design flows, those products included in this DFM category also are offered separately from our other tools. For an additional description of our current product strategy, see the discussion under the heading "Products and Product Strategy" under Part I, Item 1, "Business." 32 Table of Contents Revenue by Year The following table shows our revenue for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 and the change in revenue between years: Change 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010 (In millions, except percentages) Product $ 839.1 $ 640.8 $ 471.6 $ 198.3 31 % $ 169.2 36 % Services 114.0 116.7 100.9 (2.7 ) (2 )% 15.8 16 % Maintenance 373.3 392.3 363.5 (19.0 ) (5 )% 28.8 8 % Total revenue $ 1,326.4 $ 1,149.8 $ 936.0 $ 176.6 15 % $ 213.8 23 % For software arrangements, we generally recognize revenue ratably over the duration of the arrangement and such revenue is allocated between product and maintenance revenue. As the duration decreases, the percentage of the total contract value that is allocated to maintenance revenue decreases and the percentage allocated to product revenue increases. Combined, product and maintenance revenue increased during fiscal 2012, as compared to fiscal 2011, primarily because of increased business levels, an increase in revenue related to the sale and lease of our hardware products and increased revenue recognized from bookings in prior periods. Maintenance revenue decreased on a standalone basis during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011, primarily because of the increased allocation to product revenue due to the gradual decline in the average duration of our time-based software license arrangements over the last three years. Product and maintenance revenue increased during fiscal 2011, as compared to fiscal 2010, due to reasons noted above and also due to the increase in revenue from the Denali business which we acquired in the second quarter of 2010. We expect the aggregate of product and maintenance revenue will increase during fiscal 2013 due to increases in the revenue from our software and IP products, partially offset by an expected decrease in revenue from our hardware products. Services revenue decreased during fiscal 2012, as compared to fiscal 2011, primarily because certain of our design services engineers have been redeployed to internal research and development projects and to assist with pre-sales activities. Services revenue increased during fiscal 2011, as compared to fiscal 2010, primarily because of cash collections from customers on orders fulfilled in years prior to 2011 for which revenue was recognized in fiscal 2011 upon receipt of cash payment, and because of higher utilization rates for our services personnel. We expect services revenue to decrease during fiscal 2013, as compared to fiscal 2012, as we expect certain of our design services engineers will continue to work on internal research and development projects, primarily related or our Design IP and VIP activities. Revenue by Product Group The following table shows the percentage of product and related maintenance revenue contributed by each of our five product groups, and services and other during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010: 2012 2011 2010 Functional Verification, Hardware and IP 30 % 30 % 24 % Custom IC Design 23 % 22 % 26 % Digital IC Design 23 % 22 % 23 % System Interconnect Design 9 % 9 % 9 % Design for Manufacturing 6 % 7 % 7 % Services and other 9 % 10 % 11 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % As described in Note 2 in the notes to consolidated financial statements, certain of our licensing arrangements allow customers the ability to remix among software products. Additionally, we have arrangements with customers that include a combination of our products, with the actual product selection and number of licensed users to be determined at a later date. For these arrangements, 33 Table of Contents we estimate the allocation of the revenue to product groups based upon the expected usage of our products. The actual usage of our products by these customers may differ and, if that proves to be the case, the revenue allocation in the table above would differ. The changes in the percentage of revenue contributed by the Functional Verification, Hardware and IP product group are generally related to changes in revenue related to our hardware products. Revenue by Geography Change 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010 (In millions, except percentages) United States $ 567.6 $ 489.4 $ 382.7 $ 78.2 16 % $ 106.7 28 % Other Americas 23.0 25.1 22.2 (2.1 ) (8 )% 2.9 13 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 262.4 234.9 207.2 27.5 12 % 27.7 13 % Japan 218.7 204.4 165.2 14.3 7 % 39.2 24 % Asia 254.7 196.0 158.7 58.7 30 % 37.3 24 % Total revenue $ 1,326.4 $ 1,149.8 $ 936.0 $ 176.6 15 % $213.8 23 % For the primary factors contributing to our increase in revenue across our geographies, see the general description under "Revenue by Period" above. Revenue by Geography as a Percent of Total Revenue 2012 2011 2010 United States 43 % 43 % 41 % Other Americas 2 % 2 % 2 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 20 % 20 % 22 % Japan 16 % 18 % 18 % Asia 19 % 17 % 17 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % No one customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue during fiscal 2012, 2011 or 2010. Most of our revenue is transacted in the United States dollar. However, certain revenue transactions are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, and we recognize additional revenue from those contracts in periods when the United States dollar weakens in value against the Japanese yen and reduced revenue from those contracts in periods when the United States dollar strengthens against the Japanese yen. For an additional description of how changes in foreign exchange rates affect our consolidated financial statements, see the discussion in Item 7A, "