Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or this Quarterly Report, and in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2012 . Certain of these statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding the extent and timing of future revenues and expenses and customer demand, statements regarding the deployment of our products, statements regarding our reliance on third parties and other statements using words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, forecasts, intends, may, plans, projects, should, will and would, and words of similar import and the negatives thereof, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are predictions based upon our current expectations about future events. Actual results could vary materially as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, those expressed in these statements. We refer you to the Risk Factors, Results of Operations, Disclosures About Market Risk, and Liquidity and Capital Resources sections contained in this Quarterly Report, and the risks discussed in our other Securities Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings, which identify important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. Overview We develop solutions that our customers use to design increasingly complex integrated circuits, or ICs, and electronic devices. Our solutions are designed to help our customers reduce the time to bring an IC or electronic device to market and to reduce their design and development costs. Our offerings include software, two categories of intellectual property, or IP (commonly referred to as verification IP, or VIP, and Design IP), and hardware technology. We provide maintenance for our product offerings and provide engineering services related to methodology, education and hosted design solutions, which help our customers manage and accelerate their electronics product development processes. Substantially all of our business is generated from semiconductor and electronics systems manufacturers and designers and the renewal of many of our customer contracts is dependent upon their commencement of new design projects. As a result, our business is significantly influenced by our customers business outlook and investment in the introduction of new products and the improvement of existing products. The markets our customers serve are sensitive to product price and the time it takes to bring the products to market. In order to be competitive and profitable in these markets, our customers demand high levels of productivity from their design teams, better predictability in shorter development schedules, high quality products and lower development costs. Semiconductor and electronics systems companies are responding to these challenges and users demand for increased functionality and smaller devices by combining subsystems - such as radio frequency, or RF, wireless communication, signal processing, microprocessors and memory controllers - onto a single silicon chip, creating a system-on-chip, or SoC, or combining multiple chips into a single chip package in a format referred to as system-in-package, or SiP. The trend toward subsystem integration has required these chip makers to find solutions to challenges previously addressed by system companies, such as verifying system-level functionality and hardware-software interoperability. Our offerings address many of the challenges associated with developing unique silicon circuitry, integrating that circuitry with design IP developed by us or third parties to create SoCs, and combining ICs and SoCs with software to create electronic systems. Our strategy is to provide our customers with the ability to address the broad range of issues that arise at the silicon, SoC, and system levels. Significant issues that our customers face in creating their products include optimizing energy consumption, manufacturing microscopic circuitry, verifying device functionality, and achieving technical performance targets, all while meeting aggressive time-to-market and cost requirements. Providers of electronic design automation, or EDA, solutions must deliver products that address these technical challenges while improving the productivity, predictability, reliability and profitability of the design processes and products of their customers. Our products are engineered to improve our customers design productivity and design quality by providing a comprehensive set of EDA solutions and a differentiated portfolio of Design IP and VIP. Product revenue includes fees from licenses to use our software and IP, and from sales and leases of our hardware products. See "Product Arrangements" below for a discussion of our license types. 21 Table of Contents We combine our products and technologies into categories related to major design activities: Functional Verification, Hardware and IP; Custom IC Design; Digital IC Design; System Interconnect Design; and Design for Manufacturing, or DFM. The major Cadence design platforms are branded as Incisive functional verification, Virtuoso custom IC design, Encounter digital IC design and Allegro system interconnect design. Our functional verification offerings include VIP products and are supplemented by our Design IP offerings and our hardware offerings. In addition, we augment these platform product offerings with a set of DFM products that service both the digital and custom IC design flows. The products and technologies included in these categories are combined with ready-to-use packages of technologies assembled from our broad portfolio of IP and other associated components that provide comprehensive solutions for low power, mixed signal and designs at smaller geometries referred to as advanced process nodes, as well as popular designs based on design IP owned and licensed by other companies such as ARM Holdings plc. These solutions are marketed to users who specialize in areas such as system design and verification, functional verifi cation, logic design, digital implementation, custom IC design and printed circuit board, or PCB, and IC package and SiP design. During the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we announced that we had signed definitive agreements to purchase Tensilica and Cosmic to add to our IP offerings. The addition of these technologies will enable us to offer broader IP solutions to customers. We have identified certain items that management uses as performance indicators to manage our business, including revenue, certain elements of operating expenses and cash flow from operations, and we describe these items further below under the heading "Results of Operations" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources." Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income and net income, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. At least quarterly, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates, and make changes as deemed necessary. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results. For further information about our critical accounting estimates, see the discussion in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2012 . Results of Operations Financial results for the three months ended March 30, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012 , reflect the following: An increase in our product and maintenance revenue, primarily because of increased business levels and increased revenue recognized from bookings in prior periods; An increase in employee-related costs, primarily consisting of costs related to hiring additional employees subsequent to March 31, 2012 and incremental costs related to employees added from our acquisition of Sigrity, Inc., or Sigrity, during fiscal 2012; An increase in variable compensation due to increased revenue, bookings and operating performance; and An income tax benefit in the three months ended March 30, 2013 , primarily resulting from the release of uncertain tax benefits recorded in a past business combination. Revenue We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software and IP, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software, IP and hardware and providing engineering services. The timing of our product revenue is significantly affected by the mix of hardware and software products in the bookings executed in any given period and whether the revenue for such bookings is recognized over multiple periods or up-front, upon completion of delivery. 22 Table of Contents We seek to achieve a consistent mix of bookings with approximately 90% of the aggregate value of our bookings of a type for which the revenue is recurring, or ratable, in nature, and the remainder of the resulting revenue recognized up-front, upon completion of delivery. Our ability to achieve this bookings mix in any single fiscal quarter may be impacted by hardware sales, because product revenue for hardware sales is generally recognized up-front in the quarter in which delivery is completed. Greater than 90% of the aggregate value of our bookings during the three months ended March 30, 2013 and March 31, 2012 was of a type for which the revenue is recurring, or ratable, in nature. For an additional description of the impact of hardware sales on the anticipated mix of bookings, our other license types and the timing of revenue recognition for license transactions, see the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2012 . Revenue by Period In the condensed consolidated income statements for the three months ended March 30, 2013, we combined product and maintenance revenue because product and maintenance revenue is generally recognized from agreements that require customers to purchase both the product and associated maintenance in a bundled offering. We reclassified prior period product and maintenance revenue balances to conform to the current year presentation. The following table shows our revenue for the three months ended March 30, 2013 and March 31, 2012 and the change in revenue between periods: Three Months Ended Change March 30, 2013 March 31, 2012 Amount Percentage (In millions, except percentages) Product and maintenance $ 328.3 $ 286.3 $ 42.0 15 % Services 26.0 29.5 (3.5 ) (12 )% Total revenue $ 354.3 $ 315.8 $ 38.5 12 % Product and maintenance revenue increased during the three months ended March 30, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012 , primarily because of increased business levels and increased revenue recognized from bookings in prior periods. Services revenue decreased during the three months ended March 30, 2013, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012, because of the redeployment of certain of our design services engineers to internal research and development projects. We expect services revenue to decrease during the remainder of fiscal 2013, as compared to the same periods in fiscal 2012, as we expect these design services engineers to continue to work on internal research and development projects, primarily related to our Design IP activities. No one customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue during the three months ended March 30, 2013 or March 31, 2012 . 23 Table of Contents Revenue by Product Group The following table shows the percentage of product and related maintenance revenue contributed by each of our five product groups, and services and other for the past five consecutive quarters: Three Months Ended March 30, 2013 December 29, 2012 September 29, 2012 June 30, 2012 March 31, 2012 Functional Verification, Hardware and IP 26 % 30 % 30 % 33 % 30 % Digital IC Design 25 % 23 % 23 % 22 % 23 % Custom IC Design 25 % 24 % 24 % 22 % 23 % System Interconnect Design 10 % 9 % 9 % 8 % 8 % Design for Manufacturing 7 % 6 % 6 % 6 % 7 % Services and other 7 % 8 % 8 % 9 % 9 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % As described in Note 2 in the notes to consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2012 , certain of our licensing arrangements allow customers the ability to remix among software products. Additionally, we have arrangements with customers that include a combination of our products, with the actual product selection and number of licensed users to be determined at a later date. For these arrangements, we estimate the allocation of the revenue to product groups based upon the expected usage of our products. The actual usage of our products by these customers may differ and, if that proves to be the case, the revenue allocation in the table above would differ. The changes in the percentage of revenue contributed by the Functional Verification, Hardware and IP product group for the quarters presented are primarily related to changes in revenue related to our hardware products. Revenue by Geography Three Months Ended Change March 30, 2013 March 31, 2012 Amount Percentage (In millions, except percentages) United States $ 149.2 $ 130.5 $ 18.7 14 % Other Americas 4.6 8.1 (3.5 ) (43 )% Europe, Middle East and Africa 78.9 59.7 19.2 32 % Japan 53.5 56.2 (2.7 ) (5 )% Asia 68.1 61.3 6.8 11 % Total revenue $ 354.3 $ 315.8 $ 38.5 12 % Most of our revenue is transacted in the United States dollar. However, certain revenue transactions are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, and we recognize reduced revenue from those contracts in periods when the Japanese yen weakens in value against the United States dollar and additional revenue from those contracts in periods when the Japanese yen strengthens against the United States dollar. For an additional description of how changes in foreign exchange rates affect our condensed consolidated financial statements, see the discussion under the heading