Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or this Quarterly Report, and in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. Certain of these statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding the extent and timing of future revenues and expenses and customer demand, statements regarding the deployment of our products, statements regarding our reliance on third parties and other statements using words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, forecasts, intends, may, plans, projects, should, will and would, and words of similar import and the negatives thereof, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are predictions based upon our current expectations about future events. Actual results could vary materially as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, those expressed in these statements. We refer you to the Risk Factors, Results of Operations, Disclosures About Market Risk, and Liquidity and Capital Resources sections contained in this Quarterly Report, and the risks discussed in our other Securities Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings, which identify important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. Overview We develop software, hardware and intellectual property which are used by semiconductor and electronic system customers to develop and design integrated circuits and electronic devices. We license our software, and two categories of intellectual property, or IP, commonly referred to as verification IP, or VIP, and Design IP. In addition, we sell and lease hardware technology. We provide maintenance for our product offerings and provide engineering services related to methodology, education, and hosted design solutions which help customers manage and accelerate their electronics product development processes. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from integrated circuit, or IC, and electronics systems manufacturers and designers and is dependent upon their commencement of new design projects. As a result, our revenue is significantly influenced by our customers business outlook and investment in the introduction of new products and the improvement of existing products. In order to be competitive and profitable in the price-sensitive markets they serve, our customers demand high levels of productivity from their design teams, better predictability in their development 27 Table of Contents schedules and high quality products. Semiconductor and electronics systems companies are responding to demand for increased functionality and miniaturization by combining subsystems such as radio frequency, or RF, wireless communication, video signal processing and microprocessors either onto a single silicon chip, creating a system-on-chip, or SoC, or by combining multiple chips into a single chip package in a format referred to as system-in-package, or SiP. The trend toward subsystem integration has required these chip makers to find solutions to challenges previously addressed by system companies, such as verifying system-level functionality and hardware-software interoperability. Our offerings address many of the challenges associated with developing unique silicon circuitry, integrating that circuitry with Design IP developed by us or third parties to create SoCs, and combining ICs and SoCs with software to create electronic systems. Our strategy is to provide our customers with the ability to address the broad range of issues that arise at the silicon, SoC and system levels. The most significant issues that our customers face in creating their products include optimizing energy consumption, manufacturing microscopic circuitry, verifying device functionality and achieving technical performance targets, all while meeting aggressive cost requirements. Our semiconductor and systems customers deliver a wide range of products in segments such as smart phones, tablets, televisions, communications and internet infrastructure, and computing platforms. Providers of EDA solutions must deliver products that address the technical challenges while improving the productivity, predictability, reliability and profitability of the design processes and products of their customers. Our products are engineered to improve our customers design productivity and design quality by providing a comprehensive set of EDA solutions and a differentiated portfolio of Design IP and VIP. Product revenues include all fees earned from granting licenses to use our software and IP, and from sales and leases of our hardware products. We combine our products and technologies into categories related to major design activities: Digital IC Design; Functional Verification and Design IP; Custom IC Design; Design for Manufacturing, or DFM; and System Interconnect Design. The major Cadence design platforms are branded as Incisive functional verification, Encounter digital IC design, Virtuoso custom design and Allegro system interconnect design. Our functional verification offerings include VIP products and are supplemented by our Design IP offerings. In addition, we augment these platform product offerings with a set of DFM products that service both the digital and custom IC design flows. The products and technologies included in these categories are combined with services, ready-to-use packages of technologies assembled from our broad portfolio and other associated components that provide comprehensive solutions for low power, mixed signal and advanced-node designs, as well as popular designs based on intellectual property owned and licensed by ARM Holdings, Plc. These solutions and their constituent elements are marketed to users who specialize in areas such as system design and verification, functional verification, logic design, digital implementation, custom IC design and printed circuit board, or PCB, and IC package and SiP design. We have identified certain items that management uses as performance indicators to manage our business, including revenue, certain elements of operating expenses and cash flow from operations, and we describe these items further below under the heading Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources. 28 Table of Contents Subsequent Event On July 2, 2012, we acquired Sigrity, Inc., or Sigrity, a provider of signal and power integrity analysis tools for system, printed circuit board and IC package design. We expect to incorporate the Sigrity technology into our Allegro and OrCad product offerings and to sell the Sigrity technology on a stand-alone basis as well. Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income and net income, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. At least quarterly, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates and make changes accordingly. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results. For further information about our critical accounting estimates, see the discussion in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. Results of Operations Financial results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012, as compared to the three and six months ended July 2, 2011, reflect the following: An increase in product revenue primarily because of: A general increase in the annualized values of software contracts with our customers; Increases in the sale and lease of our hardware products; and Our continuing transition to a ratable license mix, under which most orders made in any period generate revenue in future periods. An increase in employee-related costs, consisting primarily of variable compensation. An increase in the provision for income taxes, primarily resulting from non-recurring tax benefits recognized during three and six months ended July 2, 2011. Revenue We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software and IP, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software, IP and hardware and providing engineering services. We principally use three license types: subscription, term and perpetual. The different license types provide a customer with different conditions of use for our products, such as: The right to access new technology; The duration of the license; and Payment timing. 29 Table of Contents The timing of our product revenue is significantly affected by the mix of license types in the bookings executed in any given period and whether the revenue for such bookings is recognized over multiple periods or up-front, upon completion of delivery. We seek to achieve a mix of bookings with approximately 90% of the aggregate value of our bookings of a type for which the revenue is recurring, or ratable, in nature, and the remainder of the resulting revenue recognized up-front, upon completion of delivery. Our ability to achieve this bookings mix may be impacted by an increase in hardware sales beyond our current expectations, because revenue for hardware sales is generally recognized up-front in the quarter in which delivery is completed. Approximately 90% of the aggregate value of our bookings during the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and July 2, 2011 was of a type for which the revenue is recurring, or ratable, in nature. For an additional description of the impact of hardware sales on the anticipated mix of bookings, our other license types and the timing of revenue recognition for license transactions, see the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. Although we believe that pricing volatility has not generally been a material component of the change in our revenue from period to period, we believe that the amount of revenue recognized in future periods will depend on, among other things, the: Competitiveness of our new technology; Length of our sales cycle; and Size, duration, timing, terms and type of: Contract renewals with existing customers; Additional sales to existing customers; and Sales to new customers. The value and renewal of contracts, and consequently product revenue recognized, are affected by the competitiveness of our products. Product revenue recognized in any period is also affected by the extent to which customers purchase subscription, term or perpetual licenses, and by the extent to which contracts contain flexible payment terms. Revenue by Period The following table shows our revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and July 2, 2011 and the change in revenue between periods: Three Months Ended Change June 30, 2012 July 2, 2011 Amount Percentage (In millions, except percentages) Product $ 208.3 $ 157.9 $ 50.4 32 % Services 29.0 29.5 (0.5 ) (2 )% Maintenance 89.2 95.9 (6.7 ) (7 )% Total revenue $ 326.5 $ 283.3 $ 43.2 15 % 30 Table of Contents The following table shows our revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2012 and July 2, 2011 and the change in revenue between periods: Six Months Ended Change June 30, 2012 July 2, 2011 Amount Percentage (In millions, except percentages) Product $ 398.3 $ 299.8 $ 98.5 33 % Services 58.5 57.3 1.2 2 % Maintenance 185.5 192.3 (6.8 ) (4 )% Total revenue $ 642.3 $ 549.4 $ 92.9 17 % For software arrangements, we generally recognize revenue ratably over the duration of the arrangement and such revenue is allocated between product and maintenance revenue. As the duration decreases, the allocation to maintenance revenue decreases and the allocation to product revenue increases. Combined, product and maintenance revenue increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2012, as compared to the three and six months ended July 2, 2011, primarily because of increased business levels, an increase in revenue related to the sale and lease of our hardware products and increased revenue recognized from bookings in prior periods. Maintenance revenue decreased on a standalone basis during the three and six months ended June 30, 2012, as compared to the three and six months ended July 2, 2011, primarily because of the increased allocation to product revenue due to the decreased duration of our software license arrangements. Revenue by Product Group The following table shows the percentage of product and related maintenance revenue contributed by each of our five product groups, and Services and other for the past five consecutive quarters: Three Months Ended June 30, 2012 March 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 October 1, 2011 July 2, 2011 Functional Verification and Design IP 33 % 30 % 32 % 30 % 33 % Digital IC Design 22 % 23 % 21 % 22 % 21 % Custom IC Design 22 % 23 % 23 % 23 % 22 % System Interconnect 8 % 8 % 8 % 9 % 8 % Design for Manufacturing 6 % 7 % 6 % 6 % 6 % Services and other 9 % 9 % 10 % 10 % 10 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % As described in Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, certain of our licensing arrangements allow customers the ability to remix among software products. Additionally, we have arrangements with customers that include a combination of our products, with the actual product selection and number of licensed users to be determined at a later date. For these arrangements, we estimate the allocation of the revenue to product groups based upon the expected usage of our products. The actual usage of our products by these customers may differ and, if that proves to be the case, the revenue allocation in the table above would differ. The changes in the percentage of revenue contributed by the Functional Verification and Design IP product group for the quarters presented are generally related to changes in revenue related to our hardware products. Revenue by Geography Three Months Ended Change June 30, 2012 July 2, 2011 Amount Percentage (In millions, except percentages) United States $ 142.9 $ 124.2 $ 18.7 15 % Other Americas 5.8 8.2 (2.4 ) (29 %) Europe, Middle East and Africa 65.0 56.5 8.5 15 % Japan 53.9 49.2 4.7 10 % Asia 58.9 45.2 13.7 30 % Total revenue $ 326.5 $ 283.3 $ 43.2 15 % 31 Table of Contents Six Months Ended Change June 30, 2012 July 2, 2011 Amount Percentage (In millions, except percentages) United States $ 273.4 $ 236.2 $ 37.2 16 % Other Americas 13.9 13.3 0.6 5 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 124.7 112.8 11.9 11 % Japan 110.1 99.4 10.7 11 % Asia 120.2 87.7 32.5 37 % Total revenue $ 642.3 $ 549.4 $ 92.9 17 % For the primary factors contributing to our increase in revenue across our geographies see the general description under Revenue by Period above. Revenue by Geography as a Percent of Total Revenue Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, 2012 July 2, 2011 June 30, 2012 July 2, 2011 United States 44 % 44 % 43 % 43 % Other Americas 2 % 3 % 2 % 2 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 20 % 20 % 19 % 21 % Japan 16 % 17 % 17 % 18 % Asia 18 % 16 % 19 % 16 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % No one customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and July 2, 2011. Most of our revenue is transacted in the United States dollar. However, certain transactions are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, and we recognize additional revenue from those contracts in periods when the United States dollar weakens in value against the Japanese yen and reduced revenue from those contracts in periods when the United States dollar strengthens against the Japanese yen. For an additional description of how changes in foreign exchange rates affect our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, see the discussion under the heading