Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Functional Verification Functional Verification products are used by our customers to efficiently and effectively verify that the circuitry they have designed will perform as intended. This is accomplished in advance of actually manufacturing the circuitry, which reduces the risk of discovering an error in the completed product. Our offerings are comprised of two major categories: Logic Verification and System Design and Verification. Our Logic Verification offering consists of planning, property checking, testbench simulation, verification IP, and environment capabilities within the Incisive functional verification platform. This offering enables our customers to employ methodology-driven enterprise-level verification process automation, including metric-driven verification planning, process tracking and management that allow the coordination of verification activities across multiple teams and various specialists for rapid verification planning and closure. Our System Design and Verification offerings consist of hardware-assisted verification with emulation and acceleration, including the verification computing platform Palladium XP, Palladium and Xtreme platforms, system-level design capabilities, verification IP, estimation of SoC cost and performance, consulting services, and methodologies that provide customers with automation for hardware-software verification and effective system design. In addition, this offering provides system power exploration, analysis and optimization. The QuickCycles program allows customers access to our simulation acceleration and emulation products, either on their secure internet site or remotely over a high-speed, secure network connection. The products obtained through the acquisition of Denali, including verification IP, memory models, and design IP, are included in this category of our offerings. Digital IC Design and Implementation Digital IC offerings are used by our customers to create logical representations of a digital circuit or IC that can be verified for correctness prior to manufacturing. Once verified, the logical representation is implemented, or converted to a format ready for silicon manufacturing, using additional software tools within this category. Our Digital IC offerings include two major categories: Logic Design and Physical Implementation. Our Logic Design offering is comprised of formal verification, equivalency checking, synthesis and test capabilities within the Encounter digital IC design platform and property checking, simulation, and environment capabilities within the Incisive functional verification platform. This offering provides chip planning, design, verification and test technologies and services to customers across all digital design end markets. Logic Design capabilities are aggregated into solutions that address our customers needs in areas such as power efficiency and advanced process nodes. Our Physical Implementation offering is comprised of a range of the Encounter digital IC design platform capabilities. The Physical Implementation offering includes timing analysis, signal integrity, power analysis, extraction, physical verification, and place and route capabilities within the Encounter digital IC design platform. This offering enables customers to create a physical representation of logic models, analyze electrical and physical characteristics of a design and prepare a design for manufacturing. Custom IC Design and Verification Custom IC Design and Verification offerings are used by our customers to create schematic representations of circuits down to the transistor level for analog, mixed-signal, custom digital, memory and RF designs. These logical representations are verified using simulation tools optimized for each type of design. The offering includes the environment, IC layout and simulation capabilities within the Virtuoso custom design platform. Other tools in the Custom IC portfolio are used to prepare the designs for manufacturing. 3 Table of Contents System Interconnect Design Our System Interconnect Design offerings are used by our customers to develop PCBs and IC packages. The offerings include the following capabilities within the Allegro system interconnect design platform: PCB, IC package, SiP, design management and collaboration. Certain offerings also include the simulation capability within the Virtuoso custom design platform. These offerings enable engineers who are responsible for the capture, layout and analysis of advanced PCB and IC packages to design high-performance electronic products across the domains of IC, IC package and PCB, to increase functional density and to manage design complexity while reducing cost and time to market. For the mainstream PCB customers, where individual or small team productivity is a focus, we provide the OrCAD family of offerings that is marketed worldwide through a network of resellers. Design for Manufacturing With the advent of silicon manufacturing technologies at geometries of 65 nanometer and below, our customers are increasingly concerned about the manufacturability and yield of their designs. The physical layout of each IC requires detailed analysis and optimization to ensure that the design can be manufactured in volume while performing as expected. Our strategy is to integrate DFM awareness into our core design platforms of Encounter Digital IC and Virtuoso Custom IC. Some of our DFM capabilities include electrical and physical lithography checking, chemical-mechanical polishing analysis and optimization, pattern matching and optical proximity checking. Our primary focus in DFM is to address manufacturing effects as early in the product development process as possible. As a result, we are enhancing the DFM awareness of our core Encounter Digital IC and Virtuoso Custom IC product offerings. In addition to upstream integration of DFM technologies, we also offer stand-alone DFM products. Third Party Programs and Initiatives In addition to our products, many customers use internally-developed design tools or design tools provided by other EDA companies, as well as IP available from multiple suppliers. We support the use of third-party design products and IP through vehicles such as our Connections program and through our participation in the OpenAccess Coalition, the Power Forward Initiative and other programs and initiatives. We also contribute to the development and deployment of EDA industry standards. Maintenance Customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide our customers with technical support to facilitate their use of our software, IP and hardware solutions. We offer maintenance to our customers as an integral, non-cancelable component of our subscription and most term license agreements, as a component of certain other term license agreements subject to annual renewal, or as a separate agreement subject to annual renewal for our perpetual license customers. Our Maintenance revenue was $363.5 million, or 39% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2010, $345.3 million, or 40% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2009 and $388.5 million, or 37% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2008. For an additional description of our Maintenance revenue, see the discussion under the heading Results of Operations under Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Services We offer a number of fee-based services, including engineering and education services. These services may be sold separately or sold and performed in conjunction with the sale, lease or license of our products. Our Services revenue was $100.9 million, or 11% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2010, $106.5 million, or 13% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2009 and $133.5 million, or 13% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2008. For 4 Table of Contents an additional description of our Services revenue, see the discussion under the heading Results of Operations under Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Engineering Services We offer engineering services to aid our customers with the design of complex ICs and the implementation of key design capabilities, including low power, IC packaging and board design, mixed-signal design, functional verification, digital implementation, analog/mixed-signal and system-level. The customers for these services primarily consist of semiconductor and systems companies developing products for the consumer, communications, military and aerospace and computing markets. These ICs range from digital SoCs, analog and RF designs to complex mixed-signal ICs. We offer engineering capabilities to assist customers from product concept to volume manufacturing. We leverage our experience and knowledge of design techniques, our products, leading practices and different design environments to improve the productivity of our customers engineering teams. Depending on the customers projects and needs, we work with customers using outsourcing, consultative and collaborative offerings. Our Virtual Computer-Aided Design offering enables our engineering teams at one or more of our locations to collaborate with our customers teams located elsewhere in the world during the course of their design and engineering projects through a secure network infrastructure. We also make our design IP portfolio available to customers as part of our technology and services solutions. These reusable design and methodology components enable us to efficiently deliver our services and allow our customers to reduce the design complexity and time to market when developing complex SoCs. Through collaboration with our customers, we are able to design advanced ICs and gain direct and early visibility to industry design issues that may not be addressed adequately by todays EDA technologies. This enables us to target and accelerate the development of new software technology and products to satisfy current and future design requirements. Education Services Our education services offerings can be customized and include training programs that are conducted via the internet or in a classroom setting. The content of these offerings ranges from the latest IC design techniques to methodologies for using the most recent features of our EDA products. The primary focus of education services is to accelerate our customers path to productivity in the use of our products. Marketing and Sales We generally market our products and provide maintenance and services to existing and prospective customers through a direct sales force consisting of sales people and applications engineers. Applications engineers provide technical pre-sales and post-sales support for software products. Due to the complexity of many of our EDA products and the electronic design process, the sales cycle is generally long, requiring three to six months or more. During the sales cycle, our direct sales force generally provides technical presentations, product demonstrations and support for on-site customer evaluation of our solutions. We also promote our products and services through advertising, direct mail, trade shows, public relations and the internet. We selectively utilize value added resellers to broaden our reach and reduce cost of sales. All OrCAD and selected Incisive products are primarily marketed through these channels. With respect to international sales, we generally market and support our products and services through our subsidiaries. We also use a third-party distributor to sell our products and services to certain customers in Japan. Product Licensing Arrangements We sell software using three license types: subscription, term and perpetual. Customers who prefer to license technology for a specified, limited period of time will choose either a subscription or term license, and customers who prefer to have the right to use the technology continuously without time restriction will choose a perpetual license. Customers who desire to use new technology during the life of the contract will select a subscription license, which allows them limited access to unspecified new technology on a when-and-if-available basis, as 5 Table of Contents opposed to a term or perpetual license, which does not include rights to use new technology. Payment terms for subscription and term licenses generally provide for payments to be made in installments over the license period and payment terms for perpetual licenses generally are net 30 days. We offer a delivery mechanism for term and subscription licenses called eDA Cards. eDA cards have an overall value amount that customers draw down against as they select specific products that are priced based on the particular duration of use the customer desires. The selection and licensing of the specific products is accomplished through an automated on-line system. The card expires when its total value is consumed by the customer, or on the pre-determined expiration date, whichever comes first. There are two types of eDA Cards. An eDA Gold Card is a term license that enables a customer to access a predetermined list of existing products. An eDA Platinum Card is a subscription license that enables a customer limited access to existing and new technology. We generally license our IP under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific applications. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design basis. We also sell and lease our hardware products. For a further description of our license agreements, revenue recognition policies and results of operations, please refer to the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates under Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Backlog Our backlog as of January 1, 2011 was approximately $1.7 billion, as compared to approximately $1.6 billion as of January 2, 2010, and consists of revenue to be recognized in fiscal periods after January 1, 2011 for fully executed arrangements with effective dates no later than April 2, 2011, which is the last day of our first quarter of fiscal 2011, and from a variety of license types, which generally include, but are not limited to: Licenses for software products and IP; Sale or lease of hardware; Maintenance contracts on hardware and software products; Orders for hardware and software products sold on perpetual and term licenses on which customers have delivery dates after January 1, 2011; Licenses with payments that are outside our customary terms; and The undelivered portion of engineering services contracts. The substantial majority of our backlog is generated by our product and maintenance businesses because customer licenses generally include both product and maintenance components. Historically, we have not experienced significant cancellations of our contracts with customers. However, we occasionally reschedule the required completion dates of engineering services contracts, deferring revenue recognition under those contracts beyond the original anticipated completion date. Changes in customer license types or payment terms also can affect the timing of revenue recognition. During fiscal 2010, approximately 75% of our revenue came from orders in backlog as of January 2, 2010. We expect approximately 80% of our fiscal 2011 revenue to come from our backlog as of January 1, 2011. Revenue Seasonality In the third quarter of fiscal 2008, we began transitioning to a license mix that includes a higher proportion of arrangements requiring ratable revenue recognition. Prior to this transition, revenue was generally lowest in our first quarter and highest in our fourth quarter, with a material decline between the fourth quarter of one year and the first quarter of the following year. However, the transition to a more ratable license mix means that revenue may no longer follow our historical quarterly pattern. Research and Development Our investment in research and development was $376.4 million during fiscal 2010, $354.7 million during fiscal 2009 and $457.9 million during fiscal 2008. 6 Table of Contents The primary areas of our research and development include SoC design, the design of silicon devices, high-performance IC packaging, SiP and PCB design, system-level modeling and verification, high-performance logic verification technology, IP and hardware/software co-verification. The electronics industry combines rapid innovation with rapidly increasing design and manufacturing complexity, so we make significant investments in enhancing our current products, as well as creating new products and technologies and integrating those products and technologies together into segmented solutions. Our future performance depends largely on our ability to maintain and enhance our current product development and commercialization, to develop, acquire or operate with new products from third parties, and to develop solutions that meet increasingly demanding productivity, quality, predictability and cost requirements on a schedule that keeps pace with our customers technical developments and industry standards. Manufacturing and Software Distribution We perform final assembly and testing of our verification, acceleration and emulation hardware products at our headquarters in San Jose, California. Subcontractors manufacture all major subassemblies, including all individual PCBs and custom ICs, and supply them for qualification and testing before their incorporation into the assembled product. Software and documentation are primarily distributed to customers by secure electronic delivery or on DVD. Proprietary Technology Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new licenses or renew existing licenses for third party software and other intellectual property in the future. As part of performing engineering services for customers, our engineering services business uses certain software and other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including that of our competitors. Competition We compete in EDA software products and maintenance primarily with three companies: Synopsys, Inc., Mentor Graphics Corporation and Magma Design Automation, Inc. We also compete with numerous smaller EDA companies, with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics design and consulting companies. In the area of IP, we compete with Synopsys, Inc. and numerous smaller IP companies. We generally compete on the basis of quality, product features, level of integration or compatibility with other tools, price, payment terms and maintenance offerings. It is our strategy to use engineering services as a differentiator to further promote our products and maintenance businesses. Certain competitive factors in the engineering services business as described herein differ from those of the products and maintenance businesses. While we do compete with other EDA companies in the engineering services business, our principal competitors include independent engineering service businesses. These companies vary greatly in focus, geographic location, capability, cost structure and pricing. We compete with these companies by focusing on the design of complex analog, digital and mixed-signal ICs and SoCs. International Operations We have 48 sales offices, design centers and research and development facilities, approximately two-thirds of which are located outside of the United States. We consider customer sales and support requirements, the availability of a skilled workforce, and costs and efficiencies, among other relative benefits, when determining what operations to locate internationally. For an additional description of our international operations, see the discussion under the heading The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and other risks to our international operations may seriously harm our financial condition under Item 1A, Risk Factors and Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 7 Table of Contents Employees As of January 1, 2011, we employed approximately 4,600 individuals, including approximately 95 employees whose positions were eliminated in restructuring activities announced in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table provides information regarding our executive officers as of February 24, 2011: Name Age Positions and Offices Lip-Bu Tan 51 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director John J. Bruggeman II 49 Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Thomas A. Cooley 49 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations James J. Cowie 46 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Chi-Ping Hsu 55 Senior Vice President, Research and Development Charlie Huang 47 Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer Nimish H. Modi 48 Senior Vice President, Research and Development Geoffrey G. Ribar 52 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Our executive officers are appointed by the Board of Directors and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. LIP-BU TAN has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Cadence since January 2009. Mr. Tan has been a member of the Cadence Board of Directors since February 2004. In 1987, Mr. Tan founded Walden International, an international venture capital firm, and since that time has served as its Chairman. Mr. Tan also serves as a director of Flextronics International Ltd., Inphi Corporation, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation and SINA Corporation. JOHN J. BRUGGEMAN II has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Cadence since August 2009. Before joining Cadence, from February 2004 to July 2009, Mr. Bruggeman served as Chief Marketing Officer at Wind River Systems, Inc., an embedded software company that was acquired by Intel Corporation in July 2009. From May 2002 to January 2004, Mr. Bruggeman was Vice President of Marketing at Mercury Interactive Corporation, a business technology optimization company. THOMAS A. COOLEY has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations of Cadence since October 2008. From March 1995 to October 2008, Mr. Cooley held several sales related positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President of Sales for North America, Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, and India. JAMES J. COWIE has served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Cadence since April 2008 and Secretary of Cadence since May 2008. From August 2000 to March 2008, Mr. Cowie held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President Business Development, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. CHI-PING HSU has served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since November 2008. From April 2003 to November 2008, Mr. Hsu held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President, IC Digital and Power Forward. Before joining Cadence, Mr. Hsu served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Get2Chip Inc., a supplier of high-performance system-on-chip synthesis that was acquired by Cadence in April 2003. Mr. Hsu also serves as a director of MoSys, Inc. CHARLIE HUANG has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of Cadence since January 2009. Since April 2010, Mr. Huang has also served as Chief of Staff. From April 2007 to January 2009, Mr. Huang served as Senior Vice President Business Development of Cadence. Mr. Huang was General Partner at Telos Venture Partners, a Cadence-affiliated venture capital firm, from 2004 to 2005. From 2001 to March 2007, Mr. Huang held several positions at Cadence in engineering management and business development. Before joining 8 Table of Contents Cadence, Mr. Huang co-founded and was Chief Executive Officer of CadMOS Design Technology, Inc., an EDA company that was acquired by Cadence in 2001. NIMISH H. MODI has served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since November 2008. From August 2006 to November 2008, Mr. Modi served as Corporate Vice President, Front-End Design. Before joining Cadence, from May 1988 to August 2006, Mr. Modi held several positions at Intel Corporation, a semiconductor company, most recently as Vice President in the Enterprise Platforms Group. GEOFFREY G. RIBAR has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cadence since November 2010. Before joining Cadence in October 2010, Mr. Ribar served as Chief Financial Officer of Telegent Systems, Inc., a semiconductor company, from May 2008 to October 2010. From January 2006 to April 2008, Mr. Ribar served as Chief Financial Officer at SiRF Technology, Inc., a semiconductor company that was acquired by CSR plc in 2009. Mr. Ribar served as Chief Financial Officer at other semiconductor companies including Asyst Technology, Inc., Matrix Semiconductor, Inc., and nVidia Corporation. Mr. Ribar also held various positions including Corporate Controller at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a microchip manufacturing company. 9 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. Described below are what we believe to be the material risks that we face. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to the cyclical nature of the integrated circuit and electronics systems industries, and any downturn in these industries may reduce our orders and revenue. Purchases of our products and services are dependent upon the commencement of new design projects by IC manufacturers and electronics systems companies. The IC and electronics systems industries are cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The IC and electronics systems industries experienced significant challenges in 2008 and 2009. The IC and electronic systems industries have also experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both these industries and their customers products. The economic downturn in 2008 and 2009 was characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and significant decreases in average selling prices. This economic downturn in the industries we serve contributed to the reduction in our revenue in 2008 and 2009, as compared to our revenue in 2007. Although the semiconductor industry experienced growth in 2010, and is expected to grow modestly in 2011, we believe that spending on EDA products and services may grow more slowly than the semiconductor industry as a whole in 2011. We have experienced varied operating results, and our operating results for any particular fiscal period are affected by the timing of significant orders for our software products, fluctuations in customer preferences for license types and the timing of revenue recognition under those license types. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, varied operating results. In particular, we incurred net losses during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009, we recorded net income in 2010, and we may incur a net loss in the future. Various factors affect our operating results and some of them are not within our control. Our operating results for any period are affected by the timing of certain orders for our software products. Our operating results are also affected by the mix of license types executed in any given period. We license software using three different license types: subscription, term and perpetual. Product revenue associated with term and perpetual licenses that include a stated annual maintenance renewal rate is recognized upon the later of the effective date of the arrangement or delivery of the software product. Product revenue associated with term licenses that do not include a stated annual maintenance renewal rate and Product revenue associated with subscription licenses is recognized over multiple periods during the term of the license. Revenue may also be deferred until payments become due and payable from customers with nonlinear payment terms or as cash is collected from customers with lower credit ratings. In addition, revenue is affected by the timing of license renewals, changes in existing contractual arrangements with customers and the mix of license types (i.e., perpetual, term or subscription) for existing customers. These changes could have the effect of accelerating or delaying the recognition of revenue from the timing of recognition under the original contract. Our license mix has changed such that a substantial proportion of licenses require ratable revenue recognition, and we expect the license mix, combined with the modest growth in spending by our customers in the semiconductor sector, may make it difficult for us to significantly increase our revenue in future fiscal periods. We plan operating expense levels primarily based on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the effect of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. In addition, revenue levels are harder to forecast in a difficult economic environment. If the macroeconomic environment weakens, and we experience a shortfall in revenue, our operating results could differ from our expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce our expenses in response to short-term business changes. 10 Table of Contents The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see Critical Accounting Estimates under Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that may lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. You should not view our historical results of operations as reliable indicators of our future performance. If our revenue, operating results or business outlook for future periods fall short of the levels expected by securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our failure to respond quickly to technological developments could make our products uncompetitive and obsolete. The industries in which we compete experience rapid technology developments, changes in industry standards and customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and improvements. Currently, the industries we serve are experiencing the following trends: Migration to nanometer design the continuous shrinkage of the size of process features and other features, such as wires, transistors and contacts on ICs, due to the ongoing advances in the semiconductor manufacturing processes represents a major challenge for participants in the semiconductor industry, from IC design and design automation to design of manufacturing equipment and the manufacturing process itself. Shrinking transistor sizes are challenging the industry in the application of more complex physics and chemistry in order to produce advanced silicon devices. For EDA tools, models of each components electrical properties and behavior become more complex as do requisite analysis, design and verification capabilities. Novel design tools and methodologies must be invented quickly to remain competitive in the design of electronics in the smallest nanometer ranges. The challenges of nanometer design are leading some customers to work with older, less risky manufacturing processes that may reduce their need to upgrade or enhance their EDA products and design flows. The ability to design SoCs increases the complexity of managing a design that, at the lowest level, is represented by billions of shapes on fabrication masks. In addition, SoCs typically incorporate microprocessors and digital signal processors that are programmed with software, requiring simultaneous design of the IC and the related software embedded on the IC. With the availability of seemingly endless gate capacity, there is an increase in design reuse, or the combining of off-the-shelf design IP with custom logic to create ICs or SoCs. The lack of availability of a broad range of high-quality design IP (including our own) that can be reliably incorporated into a customers design with our software products and services could lead to reduced demand for our products and services. Increased technological capability of the Field-Programmable Gate Array, which is a programmable logic chip, creates an alternative to IC implementation for some electronics companies. This could reduce demand for our IC implementation products and services. A growing number of low-cost engineering services businesses could reduce the need for some IC companies to invest in EDA products. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these trends, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we must develop or acquire new products and improve our existing products and processes on a schedule that keeps pace with technological developments and the requirements for products addressing a broad spectrum of designers and designer expertise in our industries. We must also be able to support a range of changing computer software, hardware platforms and customer preferences. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in this effort. 11 Table of Contents Our stock price has been subject to significant fluctuations, and may continue to be subject to fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may fluctuate or decline in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: Announcements of our quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts that fail to meet or are inconsistent with earlier projections or the expectations of our securities analysts or investors; Changes in our orders, revenue or earnings estimates; Announcements of a restructuring plan; Changes in management; A gain or loss of a significant customer or market segment share; Material litigation; Announcements of new products or acquisitions of new technologies by us, our competitors or our customers; and Market conditions in the IC, electronics systems and semiconductor industries. In addition, equity markets in general, and the equities of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Such price and volume fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. Litigation could adversely affect our financial condition or operations. We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in various disputes and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contracts, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. We are also currently engaged in a consolidated securities class action lawsuit and shareholder derivative lawsuits. For information regarding the litigation matters in which we are currently engaged, please refer to the discussion under Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We cannot provide any assurances that the final outcome of these lawsuits or any other proceedings that may arise in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Litigation can be time-consuming and expensive and could divert managements time and attention from our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Our future revenue is dependent in part upon our installed customer base continuing to license or buy additional products, renew maintenance agreements and purchase additional services. Our installed customer base has traditionally generated additional new license, service and maintenance revenues. In future periods, customers may not necessarily license or buy additional products or contract for additional services or maintenance. In some cases, maintenance is renewable annually at a customers option, and there are no mandatory payment obligations or obligations to license additional software. If our customers decide not to renew their maintenance agreements or license additional products or contract for additional services, or if they reduce the scope of the maintenance agreements, our revenue could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our customers, many of which are large semiconductor companies, often have significant bargaining power in negotiations with us. Mergers or acquisitions of our customers can reduce the total level of purchases of our software and services, and in some cases, increase customers bargaining power in negotiations with their suppliers, including us. We depend upon our management team and key employees, and our failure to attract, train, motivate and retain management and key employees may make us less competitive in our industries and therefore harm our results of operations. Our business depends upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees, including key development personnel. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring and departure of executive officers, and as a result, we may experience disruption to our business 12 Table of Contents that may harm our operating results and our relationships with our employees, customers and suppliers may be adversely affected. Competition for highly skilled executive officers and employees can be intense, particularly in geographic areas recognized as high technology centers such as the Silicon Valley area, where our principal offices are located, and the other locations where we maintain facilities. To attract, retain and motivate individuals with the requisite expertise, we may be required to grant large numbers of stock options or other stock-based incentive awards, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders and increase compensation expense, and pay significant base salaries and cash bonuses, which could harm our operating results. The high cost of training new employees, not fully utilizing these employees, or losing trained employees to competing employers could also reduce our operating margins and harm our business or operating results. In addition, the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules require stockholder approval for new equity compensation plans and significant amendments to existing equity compensation plans, including increases in shares available for issuance under such plans, and prohibit NASDAQ member organizations from giving a proxy to vote on equity compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions. These regulations could make it more difficult for us to grant equity compensation to employees in the future. To the extent that these regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant equity compensation to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We may not receive significant revenue from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing EDA technology and integrating acquired technology into existing platforms is expensive, and these investments often require a long time to generate returns. Our strategy involves significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain and improve our competitive position. However, we cannot ensure that we will receive significant, if any, revenue from these investments. The competition in our industries is substantial and we may not be able to continue to successfully compete in our industries. The EDA industry and the commercial electronics engineering services industry are highly competitive. If we fail to compete successfully in these industries, it could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. To compete in these industries, we must identify and develop or acquire innovative and cost-competitive EDA products, integrate them into platforms and market them in a timely manner. We must also gain industry acceptance for our engineering services and offer better strategic concepts, technical solutions, prices and response time, or a combination of these factors, than those of our competitors and the internal design departments of electronics manufacturers. We may not be able to compete successfully in these industries. Factors that could affect our ability to succeed include: The development by others of competitive EDA products or platforms and engineering services, possibly resulting in a shift of customer preferences away from our products and services and significantly decreased revenue; Decisions by electronics manufacturers to perform engineering services internally, rather than purchase these services from outside vendors due to budget constraints or excess engineering capacity; The challenges of developing (or acquiring externally-developed) technology solutions that are adequate and competitive in meeting the requirements of next-generation design challenges; The significant number of current and potential competitors in the EDA industry and the low cost of entry; Intense competition to attract acquisition targets, possibly making it more difficult for us to acquire companies or technologies at an acceptable price or at all; and The combination of two or more of our EDA competitors or collaboration among many EDA companies to deliver more comprehensive offerings than they could individually. 13 Table of Contents We compete in the EDA products market with Synopsys, Inc., Magma Design Automation, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation. We also compete with numerous smaller EDA companies, with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics design and consulting companies. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. The highly competitive markets in which we compete can put pressure on us to reduce the prices of our products. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products in an effort to recapture or gain market segment share or to sell other software or hardware products, we may then need to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully. Any such changes would be likely to reduce our profit margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Any substantial changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause sales and software license revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for our products. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the number of sales or with lower spending, then the reduced license revenues resulting from lower prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses and may not realize the expected benefits of these acquisitions. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses in the future. While we expect to carefully analyze each potential acquisition before committing to the transaction, we may not consummate any particular transaction, but may nonetheless incur significant costs, or if a transaction is consummated, we may not be able to integrate and manage acquired products and businesses effectively. In addition, acquisitions involve a number of risks. If any of the following events occurs when we acquire another business, it could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition: Difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit; The substantial diversion of managements attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating these transactions and integrating an acquired business; The discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of unanticipated liabilities assumed from the acquired business or of assets acquired, such that we cannot realize the anticipated value of the acquisition; The failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; The failure to retain key employees of the acquired business; Difficulties related to integrating the products of an acquired business in, for example, distribution, engineering and customer support areas; Unanticipated costs; Customer dissatisfaction with existing license agreements with us, possibly dissuading them from licensing or buying products acquired by us after the effective date of the license; and The failure to understand and compete effectively in markets where we have limited experience. In a number of our previously completed acquisitions, we have agreed to make future payments, either in the form of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments based on the performance of the acquired businesses or the employees who joined us with the acquired businesses. We may continue to use contingent purchase price payments in connection with acquisitions in the future. The performance goals pursuant to which these future payments may be made generally relate to achievement by the acquired business or the employees who joined us with the acquired business of certain specified orders, revenue, run rate, product proliferation, product development or employee retention goals during a specified period following completion of the applicable acquisition. Future acquisitions may involve issuances of stock as full or partial payment of the purchase price for the acquired business, grants of incentive stock or options to employees of the acquired businesses (which may be dilutive to existing stockholders), expenditure of substantial cash resources or the incurrence of material amounts of debt. 14 Table of Contents The specific performance goal levels and amounts and timing of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments vary with each acquisition. While we expect to derive value from an acquisition in excess of such contingent payment obligations, our strategy may change and we may be required to make certain contingent payments without deriving the anticipated value. We rely on our proprietary technology, as well as software and other intellectual property rights licensed to us by third parties, and we cannot assure you that the precautions taken to protect our rights will be adequate or that we will continue to be able to adequately secure such intellectual property rights from third parties. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Despite the precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, third parties have tried in the past, and may try in the future, to challenge, invalidate or circumvent these safeguards. The rights granted under our patents or attendant to our other intellectual property may not provide us with any competitive advantages. Patents may not be issued on any of our pending applications and our issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent as applicable law protects these rights in the United States. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. Many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new or renew existing licenses for such software and other intellectual property in the future. Our engineering services business holds licenses to certain software and other intellectual property owned by third parties, including that of our competitors. Our failure to obtain software or other intellectual property licenses or other intellectual property rights that is necessary or helpful for our business on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation over these licenses or rights, could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We could lose key technology or suffer serious harm to our business because of the infringement of our intellectual property rights by third parties or because of our infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. There are numerous EDA product-related patents. New patents are being issued at a rapid rate and are owned by EDA companies as well as entities and individuals outside the EDA industry. It is not always practicable to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes the patent rights of others. As a result, from time to time, we may be compelled to respond to or prosecute intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights or defend a customers rights. Intellectual property infringement claims, including defense reimbursement obligations related to third party claims, regardless of merit, could consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation, or cause product shipment delays, all of which could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. In settling these claims, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not have terms favorable to us. Being compelled to enter into a license agreement with unfavorable terms could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Any potential intellectual property litigation could compel us to do one or more of the following: Pay damages (including the potential for treble damages), license fees or royalties (including royalties for past periods) to the party claiming infringement; Stop licensing products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property; Obtain a license from the owner of the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or 15 Table of Contents Redesign the challenged technology, which could be time-consuming and costly, or not be accomplished. If we were compelled to take any of these actions, our business or operating results may suffer. If our security measures are breached and an unauthorized party obtains access to customer data, our information systems may be perceived as being unsecure and customers may curtail or stop their use of our products and services. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of customers proprietary information, and breaches of our security measures could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage information systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose existing customers and our ability to obtain new customers. The long sales cycle of our products and services makes the timing of our revenue difficult to predict and may cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly. Generally, we have a long sales cycle that can extend up to six months or longer. The complexity and expense associated with our products and services generally require a lengthy customer education, evaluation and approval process. Consequently, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management effort and expense to develop potential relationships that do not result in agreements or revenue and may prevent us from pursuing other opportunities. In addition, sales of our products and services have been and may in the future be delayed if customers delay approval or commencement of projects because of: The timing of customers competitive evaluation processes; or Customers budgetary constraints and budget cycles. Long sales cycles for acceleration and emulation hardware products subject us to a number of significant risks over which we have limited control, including insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory, variations in inventory valuation and fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles. United States generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. During fiscal 2010, the FASB issued exposure drafts of proposed accounting principles related to revenue recognition and leases which could change the way we account for certain of our transactions. A change in these or other principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. In addition, the SEC announced a multi-year plan that could ultimately lead to the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by United States issuers in their SEC filings. Any such change could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and other risks to our international operations may seriously harm our financial condition. We have significant operations outside the United States. Our revenue from international operations as a percentage of total revenue was approximately 59% during fiscal 2010, 57% during fiscal 2009 and 58% during fiscal 2008, a substantial portion of which is denominated in United States dollars. We expect that revenue from our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. We also transact business in various foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen. The volatility of foreign currencies in certain 16 Table of Contents regions, most notably the Japanese yen, European Union euro, British pound and Indian rupee have had and may in the future have an effect on our revenue or operating results. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the United States dollar and the currencies of other countries where we conduct business could seriously affect our business, operating results or financial condition. For example, when a foreign currency declines in value relative to the United States dollar, it takes more of the foreign currency to purchase the same amount of United States dollars than before the change. If we price our products and services in the foreign currency, we receive fewer United States dollars than we did before the change. If we price our products and services in United States dollars, the decrease in value of the local currency results in an increase in the price for our products and services compared to those products of our competitors that are priced in local currency. This could result in our prices being uncompetitive in markets where business is transacted in the local currency. On the other hand, when a foreign currency increases in value relative to the United States dollar, it takes more United States dollars to purchase the same amount of the foreign currency. As we use the foreign currency to pay for payroll costs and other operating expenses in our international operations, this results in an increase in operating expenses. Exposure to foreign currency transaction risk can arise when transactions are conducted in a currency different from the functional currency of one of our subsidiaries. A subsidiarys functional currency is generally the currency in which it primarily conducts its operations, including product pricing, expenses and borrowings. Although we attempt to reduce the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, significant exchange rate movements may hurt our results of operations as expressed in United States dollars. Our international operations may also be subject to other risks, including: The adoption or expansion of government trade restrictions, including tariffs and other trade barriers; Limitations on repatriation of earnings; Limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies; Reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; Recessions in foreign economies; Longer collection periods for receivables and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; Difficulties in managing foreign operations; Compliance with United States and foreign laws and regulations applicable to our worldwide operations; Political and economic instability; Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and United States and other governments licensing requirements for exports, which may lengthen the sales cycle or restrict or prohibit the sale or licensing of certain products. We have offices throughout the world, including key research and development facilities outside of the United States. Our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Activities that interfere with our international connectivity, such as computer hacking or the introduction of a virus into our computer systems, could significantly interfere with our business operations. We have substantial cash requirements in the United States, but a significant portion of our cash is held and generated outside of the United States, and if our cash available in the United States is insufficient to meet our operating expenses and debt repayment obligations in the United States, then we may be required to raise cash in ways that could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. We have significant operations outside the United States. As of January 1, 2011, approximately one third of our Cash and cash equivalents balance was held in accounts in the United States, with the remainder of the balance held in accounts outside of the United States. We believe that the combination of our existing United States cash balances and future United States operating cash flows are sufficient to meet our ongoing United States operating expenses and debt repayment obligations. However, if these sources of cash are insufficient to meet our future funding obligations in the United States, we could be required to seek other available funding sources which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and the market price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents Our operating results could be adversely affected as a result of changes in our effective tax rates. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the following: Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including potential United States and international tax reforms; Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the United States federal and state statutory tax rates; An increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation and impairment of goodwill; Changes in the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets; Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information that results in a recognition, derecognition, or change in measurement of a tax position taken in a prior period; Increases to interest or penalty expenses classified in the financial statements as income taxes; New accounting standards or interpretations of such standards; A change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings outside the United States; or Results of tax examinations by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS and state and foreign tax authorities. Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. We have received examination reports from the IRS proposing deficiencies in certain of our tax returns, and the outcome of current and future tax examinations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. The IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns, and the IRS is currently examining our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2006 through 2008. In July 2006, the IRS completed its field examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2000 through 2002 and issued a Revenue Agents Report, or RAR in which the IRS proposed to assess an aggregate tax deficiency for the three-year period of approximately $324.0 million. In November 2006, the IRS revised the proposed aggregate tax deficiency for the three-year period to be approximately $318.0 million. In October 2010, the Appeals Office of the IRS, or the Appeals Office, provided us with copies of the settlement agreements executed by the Appeals Office in August 2010 that resolved the previously disputed 2000 through 2002 tax positions. While we did not receive the final IRS determination of the amount of tax and interest that we owe prior to January 1, 2011, we consider the tax positions to be effectively settled, because the IRS has completed its examination procedures and we believe that there is a remote possibility that the IRS will re-examine the settled tax positions. In May 2009, the IRS completed its field examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2003 through 2005 and issued a RAR, in which the IRS proposed to assess an aggregate deficiency for the three-year period of approximately $94.1 million. In August 2009, the IRS reduced the proposed aggregate tax deficiency for the three-year period to approximately $60.7 million. The IRS is contesting our transfer pricing arrangements with our foreign subsidiaries and deductions for foreign trade income. The IRS made similar claims against our transfer pricing arrangements and deductions for foreign trade income in prior examinations and may make similar claims in its examinations of other tax years. We have filed a timely protest with the IRS and are seeking resolution of the issues through the Appeals Office. We believe that the proposed IRS adjustments for the tax years 2003 through 2005 are inconsistent with applicable tax laws and we are vigorously challenging these proposed adjustments, although there can be no assurance that we will prevail. The RARs are not final Statutory Notices of Deficiency, but the IRS imposes interest on the proposed deficiencies until the matters are resolved. Interest is compounded daily at rates published and adjusted quarterly by the IRS and have been between 4% and 10% since 2001. The calculation of our provision (benefit) for income taxes requires us to use significant judgment and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations. In determining the adequacy of our provision (benefit) for income taxes, we regularly assess the potential settlement outcomes resulting from income tax examinations. However, the final outcome of tax examinations, including the total amount payable or 18 Table of Contents the timing of any such payments upon resolution of these issues, cannot be estimated with certainty. In addition, we cannot be certain that such amount will not be materially different from the amount that is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes as a result of a current or a future examination, including the examination of the tax years 2000 through 2002 that we consider to be effectively settled, we may be required to record charges to operations in future periods that could have a material impact on the results of operations, financial position or cash flows in the applicable period or periods. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates could have a material impact on our results of operations. Forecasts of our income tax position and resultant effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of estimating our annual income or loss, the mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as benefits from available deferred tax assets, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and results of tax audits. To forecast our global tax rate, pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction are estimated and tax expense by jurisdiction is calculated based on such estimates. Forecasts of annual income or loss that are near break-even, as we expect for fiscal 2011, will cause our estimated annual effective tax rate to be particularly sensitive to any changes to our estimates of tax expense. If our estimate of the pre-tax profit and losses, the mix of our profits and losses, our ability to use deferred tax assets, the results of tax audits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimates, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. We depend on a sole supplier for certain hardware components, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuation. We are dependent on a sole supplier for certain hardware components. Our reliance on a sole supplier could result in product delivery problems, reduced control over product pricing and quality, and limit our ability to identify and qualify another supplier in a timely manner. While it is our goal to have multiple sources to procure certain key components, in some cases it is not practical or feasible to do so. We may suffer a disruption in the supply of certain hardware components if we are unable to purchase sufficient components on a timely basis or at all for any reason. Our operating results and revenue could be adversely affected by customer payment delays, customer bankruptcies and defaults or modifications of licenses or supplier modifications. As a result of the challenging economic environment in fiscal 2008 and 2009, our customers, who are primarily concentrated in the semiconductor sector, experienced adverse changes in their business, and certain customers delayed or defaulted on their payment obligations to us. If our customers experience difficulties in the future, they may delay or default on their payment obligations to us, file for bankruptcy or modify or cancel plans to license our products, and our suppliers may significantly and quickly increase their prices or reduce their output. If our customers are not successful in generating sufficient cash or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us, although these obligations are generally not cancelable. Our customers inability to fulfill payment obligations may adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. Additionally, our customers may seek to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments. Payment defaults by our customers or significant reductions in existing contractual commitments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Because of the relatively high levels of volatility that continue to drive significant fluctuations in asset prices, as well as escalating concern regarding high levels of leverage in sovereign and corporate debt, the capital and credit markets are volatile and increasingly unpredictable in this environment. If we were to seek funding from the capital or credit markets in response to any material level of customer defaults, we may not be able to secure funding on terms acceptable to us or at all, which, may have a material negative effect on our business. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to effectively implement our restructuring plans, and our restructuring plans may not result in the benefits we have anticipated, possibly having a negative effect on our future operating results. During fiscal 2008, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010, we initiated restructuring plans in an effort to decrease costs by reducing our workforce and by consolidating facilities. We may not be able to successfully complete and realize the expected benefits of our restructuring plans, such as improvements in operating margins and cash flows, in the restructuring periods contemplated. The restructuring plans have involved and may continue to involve higher costs or a longer timetable than we currently anticipate or may fail to improve our operating results as we anticipate. Our inability to realize these benefits may result in an inefficient business structure that could negatively affect our results of operations. Our restructuring plans have caused us and will cause us to incur substantial costs related to severance and other employee-related costs. Our restructuring plans may also subject us to litigation risks and expenses. In addition, our restructuring plans may have other consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce, a negative effect on employee morale or our ability to attract highly skilled employees, and our competitors may seek to gain a competitive advantage over us. The restructuring plans could also cause our remaining employees to leave or result in reduced productivity by our employees, and, in turn, this may affect our revenue and other operating results in the future. Failure to obtain export licenses could harm our business by rendering us unable to ship products and transfer our technology outside of the United States. We must comply with regulations of the United States and of certain other countries in shipping our software products and transferring our technology outside the United States and to foreign nationals. Any significant future difficulty in complying could harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Errors or defects in our products and services could expose us to liability and harm our reputation. Our customers use our products and services in designing and developing products that involve a high degree of technological complexity, each of which has its own specifications. Because of the complexity of the systems and products with which we work, some of our products and designs can be adequately tested only when put to full use in the marketplace. As a result, our customers or their end users may discover errors or defects in our software or the systems we design, or the products or systems incorporating our design and intellectual property may not operate as expected. Errors or defects could result in: Loss of customers; Loss of market segment share; Failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; Diversion of development resources to resolve the problem; Loss of or delay in revenue; Increased service costs; and Liability for damages. If we become subject to unfair hiring claims, we could be prevented from hiring needed employees, incur liability for damages and incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. Companies in our industry that lose employees to competitors frequently claim that these competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that the employment of these persons would involve the disclosure or use of trade secrets. These claims could prevent us from hiring employees or cause us to incur liability for damages. We could also incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against these claims, regardless of their merits. Defending ourselves from these claims could also divert the attention of our management away from our operations. 20 Table of Contents Anti-takeover defenses in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions under Delaware law could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that apply to us could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. For example: Our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue, at any time and without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as it may determine. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. However, the rights of holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with a person owning 15% or more of its voting stock, or who is affiliated with the corporation and owned 15% or more of its voting stock at any time within three years prior to the proposed business combination, for a period of three years from the date the person became a 15% owner, unless specified conditions are met. All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and could allow our Board of Directors to resist, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if a proposed transaction were favored by a majority of our independent stockholders. Our business is subject to the risk of earthquakes. Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations and certain of our distribution facilities, is located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known to experience seismic activity. If significant seismic activity were to occur, our operations may be interrupted, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. We maintain research and development and other facilities in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the United States, and as a result we may face a higher risk of business interruption from acts of war, political unrest or terrorism than businesses located only or primarily in the United States. We maintain international research and development and other facilities, some of which are in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the United States. Consequently, we may face a greater risk of business interruption as a result of terrorist acts or military conflicts than businesses located domestically. Furthermore, this potential harm is exacerbated given that damage to or disruptions at our international research and development facilities could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop new or improve existing products as compared to other businesses which may only have sales offices or other less critical operations abroad. We are not insured for losses or interruptions caused by acts of war. Risks Related to Our Securities and Indebtedness Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness. We have a substantial level of debt. As of January 1, 2011, we had outstanding indebtedness with a principal balance of $644.7 million as follows: $350.0 million related to our 2.625% Cash Convertible Senior Notes Due 2015, or the 2015 Notes; $150.0 million related to our 1.375% Convertible Senior Notes Due December 2011, or the 2011 Notes; $144.5 million related to our 1.500% Convertible Senior Notes Due December 2013, or the 2013 Notes and, together with the 2011 Notes, the Convertible Senior Notes; and $0.2 million related to our Zero Coupon Zero Yield Senior Convertible Notes Due 2023, or the 2023 Notes. 21 Table of Contents The level of our current or future indebtedness, among other things, could: Make it difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations on our debt as described above; Make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; Reduce funds available for use in our operations or for developments or acquisitions of new technologies; Make it difficult for us to incur additional debt or obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; Impose operating or financial covenants on us; Limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; or Place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have greater access to capital resources. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under any other indebtedness as well. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines that permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us and potentially hindering our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and will increase the costs of such registration to us. On the first day of fiscal 2009, we retrospectively adopted new accounting principles as required by the Debt with Conversion and Other Options subtopic of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, and adjusted all periods for which the Convertible Senior Notes were outstanding before the date of adoption. This adoption had an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, particularly with respect to interest expense ratios commonly referred to by lenders, and could potentially hinder our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities. Conversion of our Convertible Senior Notes and 2015 Notes into cash prior to the scheduled maturities of the notes may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Holders of our Convertible Senior Notes and 2015 Notes may convert their notes into cash prior to the scheduled maturities of the notes upon the occurrence of certain events. If one or more note holders elect to convert their notes upon the occurrence of any of these certain events, we would be required to settle the converted principal through payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, even if note holders do not elect to convert their notes upon the occurrence of any of these certain events, we would report any of our Convertible Senior Notes or 2015 Notes that are convertible at a balance sheet date as a current liability, which could have a material adverse impact on our net working capital. For an additional description of our Convertible Senior Notes and 2015 Notes, see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes and the exercise of warrants issued concurrently with the Convertible Senior Notes and 2015 Notes will, in certain circumstances, dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. The terms of the Convertible Senior Notes permit the holders to convert the Convertible Senior Notes into shares of our common stock. The terms of the Convertible Senior Notes stipulate a net share settlement, which upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes requires us to pay the principal amount in cash and the conversion premium, if any, in shares of our common stock based on a daily settlement amount, calculated on a proportionate basis for each day of the relevant 20 trading-day observation period. The initial conversion rate for the Convertible Senior Notes is 47.2813 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes, equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $21.15 per share of our common stock. The conversion price is subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for accrued interest, except in limited circumstances. The conversion of some or all of the Convertible Senior Notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing 22 Table of Contents stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Each $1,000 of principal of the Convertible Senior Notes is initially convertible into 47.2813 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events. Holders of the Convertible Senior Notes may convert their notes at their option on any day before the close of business on the scheduled trading day immediately preceding December 15, 2011 in the case of the 2011 Notes and December 15, 2013 in the case of the 2013 Notes, in each case only if: The price of our common stock reaches $27.50 during certain periods of time specified in the Convertible Senior Notes; Specified corporate transactions occur; or The trading price of the Convertible Senior Notes falls below 98% of the product of (i) the last reported sale price of our common stock and (ii) the conversion rate on that date. From November 2, 2011, in the case of the 2011 Notes, and November 1, 2013, in the case of the 2013 Notes, and until the close of business on the scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date of such Convertible Senior Notes, holders may convert their Convertible Senior Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. As of January 1, 2011, none of the conditions allowing holders of the Convertible Senior Notes to convert had been met. Although the conversion price of the Convertible Senior Notes is $21.15 per share, we entered into separate hedge and warrant transactions concurrent with the issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes to reduce the potential dilution from the conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes. Additionally, although the 2015 Notes are only convertible into cash, we entered into separate hedge and warrant transactions concurrent with the issuance of the 2015 Notes to reduce the potential cash outlay from the conversion of the 2015 Notes. However, we cannot guarantee that the hedge and warrant instruments issued concurrently with the Convertible Senior Notes will fully mitigate the potential dilution from the Convertible Senior Notes or that the warrants issued concurrently with the 2015 Notes will not result in dilution. The warrants could have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the warrants, exceeds the strike price of the warrants. In addition, the existence of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes could depress the price of our common stock. At the option of the holders of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes, under certain circumstances we may be required to repurchase the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes in cash. Under the terms of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes, we may be required to repurchase the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes following a fundamental change in our corporate ownership or structure, such as a change of control in which substantially all of the consideration does not consist of publicly traded securities, prior to maturity of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes. The repurchase price for the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes in the event of a fundamental change must be paid solely in cash. This repayment obligation may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company that may otherwise be beneficial to investors. Hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes may affect the value of our common stock. We entered into hedge transactions with various financial institutions, at the time of issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes, with the objective of reducing the potential dilutive effect of issuing our common stock upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes and the potential cash outlay from the cash conversion of the 2015 Notes. We also entered into separate warrant transactions with the same financial institutions. In connection with our hedge and warrant transactions associated with the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes, these financial institutions purchased our common stock in secondary market transactions and entered into various 23 Table of Contents over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. These entities or their affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, other of our securities or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. Any of these transactions and activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and, as a result, the number of shares and the value of the common stock that Convertible Senior Notes holders will receive upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes and the amount of cash that 2015 Notes holders will receive upon conversion of the 2015 Notes. In addition, subject to movement in the price of our common stock, if the hedge transactions settle in our favor, we could be exposed to credit risk related to the other party with respect to the payment we are owed from such other party. If the financial institutions with which we entered into these hedge transactions were to fail or default, our ability to settle on these transactions could be harmed or delayed. We are subject to the risk that the hedge participants cannot, or do not, fulfill their obligations under the Convertible Senior Notes hedge transactions and the 2015 Notes hedge transactions. Global economic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. If any of the participants in the hedge transactions is unwilling or unable to perform its obligations for any reason, we would not be able to receive the benefit of such transaction. We cannot provide any assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the participants in the hedge transactions. Rating agencies may provide unsolicited ratings on the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes that could reduce the market value or liquidity of our Convertible Senior Notes, 2015 Notes or our common stock. We have not requested a rating of the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes from any rating agency and we do not anticipate that the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes will be rated. However, if one or more rating agencies independently elects to rate the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes and assigns the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes a rating lower than the rating expected by investors, or reduces such rating in the future, the market price or liquidity of the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, and our common stock could be harmed. Should a decline in the market price of the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes result, as compared to the price of our common stock, this may trigger the right of the holders of the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes to convert such notes into cash and shares of our common stock, as applicable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties We own land and buildings at our headquarters located in San Jose, California. We also own buildings in India. As of January 1, 2011, the total square footage of our owned buildings was approximately 965,000. We lease additional facilities in the United States and various other countries. We sublease certain of these facilities where space is not fully utilized or has been impacted as part of our restructuring plans. We believe that these facilities, including our newly constructed building located at our headquarters, are adequate for our current needs and that suitable additional or substitute space will be available as needed to accommodate any expansion of our operations. Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we are involved in various disputes and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, indemnification obligations, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contracts, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. At least quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from 24 Table of Contents any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount or the range of loss can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based on our judgments using the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation matters and may revise our estimates. On February 8, 2011 and February 11, 2011, we agreed to settle our pending derivative and securities litigation, respectively, subject to completion of final settlement documentation by the parties and court approval. Accordingly, we recorded Litigation charges of $15.8 million in fiscal 2010. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for an additional description of our legal proceedings and this settlement. Item 4. (Removed and Reserved) 25 Table of Contents PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Common Stock Market Price Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CDNS. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock in the past, and we do not plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As of February 5, 2011, we had approximately 934 registered stockholders and approximately 25,617 beneficial owners of our common stock. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for Cadence common stock for each fiscal quarter in the two-year period ended January 1, 2011: High Low 2010 First Quarter $ 6.92 $ 5.36 Second Quarter 7.68 5.69 Third Quarter 7.92 5.58 Fourth Quarter 8.68 7.42 2009 First Quarter $ 4.64 $ 3.03 Second Quarter 6.40 4.26 Third Quarter 7.55 5.12 Fourth Quarter 8.18 5.60 26 Table of Contents Stockholder Return Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative 5-year total stockholder return on our common stock relative to the cumulative total return of the NASDAQ Composite index and the S&P 400 Information Technology index. The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and in each index (including reinvestment of dividends) was $100 on December 31, 2005 and tracks it through January 1, 2011. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Cadence Design Systems, Inc., The NASDAQ Composite Index And S&P 400 Information Technology * $100 invested on 12/31/05 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Indexes calculated on month-end basis. Copyright 2011 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. 12/31/05 12/30/06 12/29/07 1/3/09 1/2/10 1/1/11 Cadence Design Systems, Inc. 100.00 105.85 100.65 22.70 35.40 48.82 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 111.74 124.67 73.77 107.12 125.93 S&P 400 Information Technology 100.00 116.05 120.43 71.45 107.69 140.48 The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance 27 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities During fiscal 2008, our Board of Directors authorized two programs to repurchase shares of our common stock in the open market with a value of up to $1.0 billion in the aggregate. The following table sets forth the repurchases we made during the three months ended January 1, 2011: Maximum Dollar Value of Shares that Total Number of May Yet Shares Purchased Be Purchased Under Total Number Average as Part of Publicly Announced of Shares Price Publicly Announced Plan or Program(1) Period Purchased(1) Per Share Plan or Program (In millions) October 3, 2010 November 6, 2010 8,690 $ 7.96 --- $ 814.4 November 7, 2010 December 4, 2010 174,263 $ 8.52 --- $ 814.4 December 5, 2010 January 1, 2011 181,811 $ 8.35 --- $ 814.4 Total 364,764 $ 8.43 --- (1) Shares purchased that were not part of our publicly announced repurchase programs represent the surrender of shares of restricted stock to pay income taxes due upon vesting, and do not reduce the dollar value that may yet be purchased under our publicly announced repurchase programs. 28 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data Unaudited The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto and the information contained in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. The notes below the table are provided for comparability purposes due to adoptions of accounting pronouncements on a prospective basis from the date of adoption or to describe significant, non-recurring transactions. Five Fiscal Years Ended January 1, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share amounts) Revenue $ 936.0 $ 852.6 $ 1,038.6 $ 1,615.0 $ 1,483.9 Income (loss) from operations (1)(4) (29.0 ) (123.6 ) (1,573.3 ) 317.9 224.6 Other income (expense), net 2.5 (1.0 ) (16.8 ) 58.5 70.4 Net income (loss) (1)(2)(3)(4) 126.5 (149.9 ) (1,856.7 ) 286.8 142.3 Net income (loss) per share assuming dilution (1)(2)(3)(4) 0.48 (0.58 ) (7.30 ) 0.97 0.46 Total assets (1)(2) 1,732.1 1,410.6 1,679.9 3,862.6 3,432.3 Convertible notes 549.7 436.0 416.6 397.8 610.8 Stockholders equity (1)(2) 276.7 108.4 186.7 2,173.6 1,808.3 (1) During fiscal 2008, we recorded a $1,317.2 million impairment of goodwill, a $47.1 million impairment of intangible and tangible assets and a $326.0 million valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. For an additional description of the impairments of goodwill and intangible and tangible assets, see Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. For an additional description of the valuation allowance, see Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) We adopted new accounting principles for recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions on December 31, 2006, which was the first day of fiscal 2007. For an additional description of these accounting principles, see Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The cumulative effects of applying these have been reported as an adjustment to our opening balance of Retained earnings or other appropriate components of equity or net assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the beginning of fiscal 2007. (3) During fiscal 2010, we recorded a $147.9 million benefit for income taxes due to the effective settlement of the IRS examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2000 through 2002. We also recognized a $66.7 million benefit for income taxes due to the release of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance primarily resulting from the increase in deferred tax liabilities from the intangible assets acquired with our acquisition of Denali. For an additional description of, and disclosures regarding, our income tax provision or benefit, see Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) On February 8, 2011 and February 11, 2011, we agreed to settle our pending derivative and securities litigation, respectively, subject to completion of final settlement documentation by the parties and court approval. Accordingly, we recorded Litigation charges of $15.8 million in fiscal 2010. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for an additional description of our legal proceedings and this settlement. 29 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and with Item 1A, Risk Factors. Please refer to the cautionary language at the beginning of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding forward-looking statements. Business Overview We develop EDA software, hardware, and silicon IP. We license software and IP, sell or lease hardware technology, provide maintenance for our software, IP and hardware and provide engineering and education services throughout the world to help manage and accelerate product development processes for electronics. Our customers use our products and services to design and develop complex ICs and electronics systems. During fiscal 2010, we had orders of $956 million. We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software and IP, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our products and providing engineering services. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from IC and electronics systems manufacturers and designers and is dependent upon their commencement of new design projects. As a result, our revenue is significantly influenced by our customers business outlook and investment in the introduction of new products and the improvement of existing products. Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income (loss) and net income (loss), as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. At least quarterly, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates and make changes accordingly. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition, accounting for income taxes, allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of intangible assets, valuation of goodwill and fair value have the greatest potential impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements; therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting estimates. For information on our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition We begin to recognize revenue from licensing and supporting our software, IP and hardware products when all of the following criteria are met: We have persuasive evidence of an arrangement with a customer; Delivery of all specified products has occurred; The fee for the arrangement is considered to be fixed or determinable, at the outset of the arrangement; and Collectibility of the fee is probable. Significant judgment is involved in the determination of whether the facts and circumstances of an arrangement support that the fee for the arrangement is considered to be fixed or determinable and that collectibility of the fee is probable, and these judgments can affect the amount of revenue that we recognize in a particular reporting period. We must also make these judgments when assessing whether a contract amendment to a term arrangement (primarily in the context of a license extension or renewal) constitutes a concession. Our experience has been that we are able to determine whether a fee is fixed or determinable for term licenses and we have established a history of collecting under the original contract without providing concessions on payments, products or services. 30 Table of Contents For installment contracts that do not include a substantial up-front payment, we consider that a fee is fixed or determinable only if the arrangement has payment periods that are equal to or less than the term of the licenses and the payments are collected in equal or nearly equal installments, when evaluated over the entire term of the arrangement. While we do not expect that experience to change, if we no longer were to have a history of collecting under the original contract without providing concessions on term licenses, revenue from term licenses would be required to be recognized when payments under the installment contract become due and payable. Such a change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our experience has been that we are generally able to estimate whether collection is probable. Significant judgment is applied as we assess the creditworthiness of our customers to make this determination. If our experience were to change, such a change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If, in our judgment, collection of a fee is not probable, we defer the revenue until the uncertainty is removed, which generally means revenue is recognized upon receipt of cash payment from the customer. A multiple element arrangement, or MEA, is any arrangement that includes or contemplates rights to a combination of software or hardware products, software license types, services, training or maintenance in a single arrangement. From time to time, we may include individual deliverables in separately priced and separately signed contracts with the same customer. We obtain and evaluate all known relevant facts and circumstances in determining whether the separate contracts should be accounted for individually as distinct arrangements or whether the separate contracts are, in substance, a MEA. Significant judgment can be involved in determining whether a group of contracts might be so closely related that they are, in effect, part of a single arrangement. For our subscription licenses, including eDA Platinum Cards, the software license agreements typically combine the right to use specified software products, the right to maintenance, and the right to receive and use unspecified future software products for no additional fee, when and if available, during the term of the license agreement. Under these license agreements, when all four of the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are met, we recognize revenue ratably over the term of the license agreement beginning with delivery of the products. Subscription license revenue is allocated to product and maintenance revenue. The allocation to maintenance revenue is based on the average substantive renewal rates included in the sale of similar term license arrangements. In the event that the license fee for this type of arrangement is not considered to be fixed or determinable at the outset of the arrangement, we recognize revenue at the lesser of (i) the pro-rata portion of the license fee for the applicable period, or (ii) as payments from the customer become due (if all other conditions for revenue recognition have been satisfied). For term and perpetual licenses, including eDA Gold Cards, that include a stated annual maintenance renewal rate, software license fees are recognized as revenue up-front when all four of the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are met, generally upon delivery, and the maintenance fees are recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance period. Under our current business model, a relatively small percentage of our revenue from software licenses is recognized on an up-front basis. License agreements under which license fees are recognized up-front do not include the right to receive unspecified future products. However, when such license agreements are executed within close proximity or in contemplation of other license agreements that require ratable revenue recognition with the same customer, the licenses together may be deemed a MEA, in which event all such revenue is recognized over multiple periods. Revenue from service contracts is recognized either on the time and materials method, as work is performed, or on the percentage-of-completion method. For contracts with fixed or not-to-exceed fees, we estimate on a monthly basis the percentage of completion based on the completion of milestones relating to the arrangement. We have a history of accurately estimating project status and the costs necessary to complete projects. A number of internal and external factors can affect our estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances and specification and testing requirement changes. If different conditions were to prevail such that accurate estimates could not be made, then the use of the completed contract method would be required and the recognition of all revenue and costs would be deferred until the project was completed. Such a change could have a material impact on our results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Accounting for Income Taxes We provide for the effect of income taxes in our Consolidated Financial Statements using the asset and liability method. We also apply a two-step approach to determining the financial statement recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions. Income tax expense or benefit is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year, and for deferred tax assets and liabilities for the tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We must make significant assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision (benefit) for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance to be recorded against our deferred tax assets. Our judgments, assumptions and estimates relating to the current provision (benefit) for income taxes include the geographic mix and amount of income (loss), our interpretation of current tax laws, and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. Our judgments also include anticipating the tax positions we will take on tax returns before actually preparing and filing the tax returns. Changes in our business, tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws, and developments in current and future tax audits, could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to tax benefit carryforwards and to differences between the financial statement amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. To make this assessment, we take into account predictions of the amount and category of taxable income from various sources and all available positive and negative evidence about these possible sources of taxable income. The weight given to the potential effect of negative and positive evidence is commensurate with the extent to which the strength of the evidence can be objectively verified. For example, a companys current year or previous year losses are given more weight than its future outlook. For the years ended January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010, we concluded that a significant valuation allowance was required based on our evaluation and weighting of the positive and negative evidence. If, in the future, we determine that these deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized, a release of all or part, of the related valuation allowance could result in a material income tax benefit in the period such determination is made. For an additional description of the valuation allowance, see Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We only recognize an income tax position in our financial statements that we judge is more likely than not to be sustained solely on its technical merits in a tax audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. To make this judgment, we must interpret complex and sometimes ambiguous tax laws, regulations and administrative practices. If an income tax position meets the more likely than not recognition threshold, then we must measure the amount of the tax benefit to be recognized by determining the largest amount of tax benefit that has a greater than a 50% likelihood of being realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all of the relevant facts. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as this requires us to determine the probability of various possible settlement outcomes. To determine if a tax position is effectively settled, we must also estimate the likelihood that a taxing authority would review a tax position after a tax examination has otherwise been completed. We must also determine when it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease in the 12 months after each fiscal year-end. These judgments are difficult because a taxing authority may change its behavior as a result of our disclosures in our financial statements or for other reasons. We must reevaluate our income tax positions on a quarterly basis to consider factors such as changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. In addition, we are required by the IRS to disclose uncertain tax positions taken on our federal tax return for fiscal 2010. We are also required to assess whether the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries will be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. As of January 1, 2011, we had recognized a deferred tax liability of $5.2 million related to $8.6 million of earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries that are not considered indefinitely invested outside the United States. Changes in our actual or projected operating results, tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws, foreign 32 Table of Contents exchange rates and developments in current and future tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We make judgments as to our ability to collect outstanding receivables and provide allowances for a portion of receivables when collection becomes doubtful. This allowance is based on our assessment of the creditworthiness of our customers, historical experience and the overall economic climate of the industries that we serve. While we believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate, we continue to monitor customer liquidity and other economic conditions, which may result in changes to our estimates regarding our ability to collect from our customers. Changes in circumstances, such as an unexpected change in a customers ability to meet its financial obligation to us or a customers payment trends, are hard to predict and may require us to adjust our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. During fiscal 2009, we increased the allowance for doubtful accounts by $21.6 million as a result of our assessment of the increased risk of customer delays or defaults on payment obligations. As a result of receiving payments related to a portion of the outstanding receivables against which we had previously recorded allowances, we have decreased our allowance for doubtful accounts to $7.6 million as of January 1, 2011, as compared to $23.7 million as of January 2, 2010. Of the $7.6 million allowance for doubtful accounts as of January 1, 2011, $6.9 million relates to one customer whose outstanding gross accounts receivable balance is due in the first half of 2011. If we recover any portion of that $6.9 million, it will result in a reduction of our operating expenses. Valuation of Intangible Assets When we acquire businesses, we allocate the purchase price to acquired tangible assets and liabilities and acquired identifiable intangible assets. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price requires us to make significant estimates in determining the fair values of these acquired assets and assumed liabilities, especially with respect to intangible assets. These estimates are based on information obtained from management of the acquired companies, our assessment of this information, and historical experience. These estimates can include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate in the future, the appropriate weighted-average cost of capital, and the cost savings expected to be derived from acquiring an asset. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable, and if different estimates were used, the purchase price for the acquisition could be allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities differently from the allocation that we have made. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates, and if such events occur, we may be required to adjust the value allocated to acquired assets or assumed liabilities. We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, including certain identifiable intangibles, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that we will not be able to recover an assets carrying amount. In addition, we assess our long-lived assets for impairment if they are abandoned. For long-lived assets to be held and used, including acquired intangibles, we initiate our review whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of an asset is measured by comparing its carrying amount to the expected future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of that asset, excluding future interest costs that would be recognized as an expense when incurred. Any impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair market value. Significant management judgment is required in: Identifying a triggering event that arises from a change in circumstances; Forecasting future operating results; and Estimating the proceeds from the disposition of long-lived or intangible assets. In future periods, material impairment charges could be necessary should different conditions prevail or different judgments be made. 33 Table of Contents Valuation of Goodwill Costs in excess of the fair value of tangible and other intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are recorded as goodwill. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead is tested for impairment at least annually. We evaluate goodwill on an annual basis and whenever events and changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Impairment of goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level by comparing the reporting units carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. The fair values of the reporting units are estimated using a combination of the income, or discounted cash flows, approach and the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies data. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered to be impaired and a second step is performed to measure the amount of the impairment loss. The preparation of the goodwill impairment analysis requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions with respect to the determination of fair values of the reporting unit and tangible and intangible assets. These estimates and assumptions, which include future values, are complex and often subjective and may differ significantly from period to period based on changes in the overall economic environment, changes in our industry and changes in our strategy or our internal forecasts. Estimates and assumptions with respect to the fair value determination include: Control premium assigned to our market capitalization; Our operating forecasts; Revenue growth rates; Risk-commensurate discount rates and costs of capital; and Market multiples of revenue and earnings. These estimates and assumptions, along with others, are used to estimate the fair value of our reporting unit as well as tangible and intangible assets. While we believe the estimates and assumptions we use are reasonable, different assumptions may materially impact the resulting fair value of the reporting unit, tangible assets and intangible assets, the amount of impairment we record in any given period and our results of operations. We completed our annual goodwill impairment test during the third quarter of fiscal 2010 and determined that the fair value of our single reporting unit substantially exceeded the carrying amount of our net assets and that no impairment existed. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Inputs to valuation techniques are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our market assumptions. These two types of inputs have created the following fair-value hierarchy: Level 1 Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets; Level 2 Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets; and Level 3 Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable. This hierarchy requires us to minimize the use of unobservable inputs and to use observable market data, if available, when determining fair value. We recognize transfers between levels of this hierarchy based on the fair values of the respective financial instruments at the end of the reporting period in which the transfer occurred. Changes in fair value are recognized in earnings each period for financial instruments that are carried at fair value. The types of instruments that trade in markets that are not considered to be active, but are valued based on quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency, are generally classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 34 Table of Contents In June 2010, we entered into hedge transactions, or the 2015 Notes Hedges, and recorded an embedded conversion derivative, or the 2015 Notes Embedded Conversion Derivative, concurrent with the issuance of the 2015 Notes. The fair values of these derivatives are determined using an option pricing model based on observable inputs, such as implied volatility of our common stock, risk-free interest rate and other factors, and as such are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. For an additional description of these transactions, see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain instruments are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy because they trade infrequently and therefore have little or no price transparency. For those instruments that are not traded in active markets or are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and/or non-transferability, and such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, our best estimate is used. Results of Operations Overview of Fiscal 2010 Financial results for fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, reflect the following: Our customers remain cautious about making substantial new expenditures to purchase or lease EDA products or services despite growth in the semiconductor industry and some stabilization in the overall economic environment during 2010; Increased revenue recognized because of higher business levels due to the timing of contract renewals with existing customers and from contracts executed in prior years due to our continued transition to a ratable license mix, which began in the third quarter of fiscal 2008; A decrease in our bad debt expense due to the prior year increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts and the current year release of a portion of the reserve as a result of customer payments of certain receivables that were previously included in our allowance for doubtful accounts; An increase in employee-related costs for commissions and other employee incentive compensation primarily resulting from improving business levels during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, partially offset by decreased costs as a result of our prior year restructuring plans and other expense reductions; The acquisition of Denali including an increase in deferred tax liabilities from the intangible assets acquired with Denali and the resulting benefit for income taxes because of the release of valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets; Effective settlement of the IRS examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2000 through 2002, which resulted in a benefit for income taxes of $147.9 million during fiscal 2010; The issuance of $350.0 million principal amount of our 2015 Notes, and the repurchase of $100.0 million principal amount of our 2011 Notes, and $105.5 million principal amount of our 2013 Notes; and On February 8, 2011 and February 11, 2011, we agreed to settle our pending derivative and securities litigation, respectively. Accordingly, we recorded Litigation charges of $15.8 million in fiscal 2010. Acquisition of Denali In June 2010, we acquired Denali, a privately-held provider of electronic design automation software and intellectual property used in system-on-chip design and verification, for $296.8 million in cash. An additional $12.6 million of payments were deferred on the acquisition date and conditioned upon certain Denali shareholders remaining employees of Cadence during the periods specified in the respective agreements. As of January 1, 2011, $10.5 million of the $12.6 million has been paid. During fiscal 2010, $10.2 million of the $12.6 million was expensed in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The remaining $2.4 million will be expensed in our Consolidated Statements of Operations over the stated retention periods. The Denali product portfolio includes memory models, design IP and verification IP. The impact of the Denali acquisition on our Statement of Operations in fiscal 2010 resulted in a greater increase in our operating expenses than the increase in revenue generated from the acquisition. 35 Table of Contents Revenue We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software and IP, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software, IP and hardware and providing engineering services. We principally use three license types: subscription, term and perpetual. The different license types provide a customer with different conditions of use for our products, such as: The right to access new technology; The duration of the license; and Payment timing. The timing of our product revenue is significantly affected by the mix of orders executed in any given period. For some orders, such as subscription orders, product and maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over multiple periods. In addition, depending on the individual facts and circumstances of a particular order, we have some orders for which product and maintenance revenue is recognized as payments become due and some for which revenue is only recognized when payment is received. For other orders, all product revenue is recognized up-front in the same quarter in which the order is executed. We seek to achieve a mix of orders with approximately 90% of the total value of all executed orders consisting of orders for which the revenue is recurring, or ratable in nature, with the balance of the orders made up of orders for which the product revenue is recognized up-front. Our ability to achieve this ratable orders mix may be impacted by an increase in hardware sales beyond our current expectations. For an additional description of the impact of hardware sales on the anticipated mix of orders, see New Accounting Standards below. During fiscal 2010, approximately 90% of the total value of our executed orders was comprised of ratable revenue orders. Approximately 90% of our fiscal 2010 revenue came from ratable orders. Customer decisions regarding these aspects of license transactions determine the license type, timing of revenue recognition and potential future business activity. For example, if a customer chooses a fixed duration of use, this will result in either a subscription or term license. A business implication of this decision is that, at the expiration of the license period, the customer must decide whether to continue using the technology and therefore renew the license agreement. Historically, larger customers generally have used products from two or more of our five product groups and rarely completely terminated their relationship with us upon expiration of the license. See the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition and Note 2 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional descriptions of license types and timing of revenue recognition. Although we believe that pricing volatility has not generally been a material component of the change in our revenue from period to period, we believe that the amount of revenue recognized in future periods will depend on, among other things, the: Competitiveness of our new technology; Timing of contract renewals with existing customers; Length of our sales cycle; and Size, duration, terms and type of: Contract renewals with existing customers; Additional sales to existing customers; and Sales to new customers. The value and renewal of contracts, and consequently product revenue recognized, is affected by the competitiveness of our products. Product revenue recognized in any period is also affected by the extent to which customers purchase subscription, term or perpetual licenses, and the extent to which contracts contain flexible payment terms. Revenue Mix 36 Table of Contents We analyze our software, IP and hardware businesses by product group, combining revenues for both product and maintenance because of their interrelationship. We have formulated a design solution strategy that combines our design technologies in platforms, as described in the various product groups below: Functional Verification : Products in this group, including the Incisive functional verification platform are used to verify that the high level, logical representation of an IC design is functionally correct and for verification at the system and SoC levels. Our emulation hardware products, verification IP products, memory sub-system models, and silicon IP products are included in this product group, as are the products acquired through the Denali acquisition. Digital IC Design : Products in this group, including the Encounter digital IC design platform, are used to create and convert the high-level, logical representation of a digital IC into a detailed physical blueprint and then detailed design information showing how the IC will be physically implemented. This data is used for creation of the photomasks used to manufacture semiconductors. Custom IC Design : Our custom design products, including the Virtuoso custom design platform, are used for ICs that must be designed at the transistor level, including analog, RF, memory, high performance digital blocks and standard cell libraries. Included in this group are specialized verification products that simulate the operation of the design prior to manufacturing. Detailed design information showing how an IC will be physically implemented is used for creation of the photomasks used to manufacture semiconductors. System Interconnect Design : This product group consists of our PCB and IC package design products, including the Allegro and OrCAD products. The Allegro system interconnect design platform enables consistent co-design of interconnects across ICs, IC packages and PCBs, while the OrCAD line focuses on cost-effective, entry-level PCB solutions. Design for Manufacturing : Included in this product group are our physical verification and analysis products. These products are used to analyze and verify that the physical blueprint of the IC has been constructed correctly and can be manufactured successfully. Our strategy includes focusing on integrating DFM awareness into our core design platforms of Encounter digital IC design and Virtuoso custom IC design. For an additional description of our current product strategy, see the discussion under the heading Products and Product Strategy under Item 1, Business. Revenue by Year The following table shows our revenue for fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 and the dollar change in revenue between years: Change 2010 vs. 2009 vs. 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 (In millions) Product $ 471.6 $ 400.8 $ 516.6 $ 70.8 $ (115.8 ) Services 100.9 106.5 133.5 (5.6 ) (27.0 ) Maintenance 363.5 345.3 388.5 18.2 (43.2 ) Total revenue $ 936.0 $ 852.6 $ 1,038.6 $ 83.4 $ (186.0 ) Product revenue increased during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily because of higher business levels due to the timing of contract renewals with existing customers and from contracts executed in prior quarters due to our continued transition to a ratable license mix. We expect to recognize increased revenue during fiscal 2011, as compared to fiscal 2010, due to higher business levels and our continued transition to our more ratable license mix. Product revenue decreased during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily because of lower business levels due to the challenges in the macroeconomic environment, the timing of our contract renewals with existing customers, our transition to a ratable license mix and a longer sales cycle. 37 Table of Contents Services revenue decreased during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily because of lower business levels in the services business. Services revenue decreased during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, because of lower business levels due to the challenges in the macroeconomic environment and an increase in the proportion of arrangements for which revenue is deferred until payments become due and payable or cash is received from customers, primarily as a result of our assessment of the increased risk of customer delays or defaults on payment obligations. Maintenance revenue increased during fiscal 2010, as compared to 2009, primarily because of higher business levels due to the timing of contract renewals with existing customers. Maintenance revenue decreased during fiscal 2009, as compared to 2008, due to lower business levels as a result of challenges in the macroeconomic environment, an increase in the proportion of arrangements for which revenue is deferred until payments become due and payable or cash is received from customers, primarily as a result of our assessment of the increased risk of customer delays or defaults on payment obligations and a decline in maintenance fees resulting from a reduction in the average duration of software license arrangements, because the annual fee for maintenance is lower for arrangements with shorter durations. The following table shows the percentage of product and related maintenance revenue contributed by each of our five product groups and Services and other during fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008: 2010 2009 2008 Functional Verification 24% 22% 22% Digital IC Design 23% 21% 24% Custom IC Design 26% 27% 24% System Interconnect Design 9% 11% 11% Design for Manufacturing 7% 7% 6% Services and other 11% 12% 13% Total 100% 100% 100% As described in Note 2 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, certain of our licensing arrangements allow customers the ability to remix among software products. Additionally, we have arrangements with customers that include a combination of our products with the actual product selection and number of licensed users to be determined at a later date. For these arrangements, we estimate the allocation of the revenue to product groups based upon the expected usage of our products. The actual usage of our products by these customers may differ and, if that proves to be the case, the revenue allocation in the table above would differ. Although we believe the methodology of allocating revenue to product groups is reasonable, there can be no assurance that such allocated amounts reflect the amounts that would result had the customer individually licensed each specific software solution at the onset of the arrangement. Revenue by Geography Change 2010 vs. 2009 vs. 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 (In millions) United States $ 382.7 $ 370.0 $ 435.1 $ 12.7 $ (65.1 ) Other Americas 22.2 20.9 33.0 1.3 (12.1 ) Europe, Middle East and Africa 207.2 188.9 230.8 18.3 (41.9 ) Japan 165.2 152.8 204.1 12.4 (51.3 ) Asia 158.7 120.0 135.6 38.7 (15.6 ) Total revenue $ 936.0 $ 852.6 $ 1,038.6 $ 83.4 $ (186.0 ) 38 Table of Contents Revenue by Geography as a Percentage of Total Revenue 2010 2009 2008 United States 41% 43% 42% Other Americas 2% 3% 3% Europe, Middle East and Africa 22% 22% 22% Japan 18% 18% 20% Asia 17% 14% 13% No single customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue during fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 or fiscal 2008. Most of our revenue is transacted in the United States dollar. However, certain revenue transactions are in foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, and we recognize additional revenue in periods when the United States dollar weakens in value against the Japanese yen and reduced revenue in periods when the United States dollar strengthens against the Japanese yen. For an additional description of how changes in foreign exchange rates affect our Consolidated Financial Statements, see the discussion under the heading