Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or this Quarterly Report, and in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013 . This Quarterly Report contains statements that are not historical in nature, are predictive, or that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or contain forward-looking statements. Statements including, but not limited to, statements regarding the extent and timing of future revenues and expenses and customer demand, statements regarding the deployment of our products, statements regarding our reliance on third parties and other statements using words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, forecasts, intends, may, plans, projects, should, will and would, and words of similar import and the negatives thereof, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are predictions based upon our current expectations about future events. Actual results could vary materially as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, those expressed in these statements. We refer you to the Risk Factors, Results of Operations, Disclosures About Market Risk, and Liquidity and Capital Resources sections contained in this Quarterly Report, and the risks discussed in our other Securities Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings, which identify important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. Overview We develop solutions that our customers use to design increasingly small and complex integrated circuits, or ICs, and electronic devices. Our solutions are designed to help our customers reduce the time to bring an IC or electronic device to market and to reduce their design, development and manufacturing costs. Our product offerings include electronic design automation, or EDA, software, emulation hardware, and two categories of intellectual property, or IP, commonly referred to as verification IP, or VIP, and design IP. We provide maintenance for our software, emulation hardware, and IP product offerings. We also provide engineering services related to methodology, education, hosted design solutions and design services for advanced ICs and development of custom IP. These services help our customers manage and accelerate their electronics product development processes. Our customers include semiconductor and electronics systems companies that deliver a wide range of electronics products in a number of market segments such as mobile devices, communications, cloud and data center infrastructure, personal computers and other devices. The renewal of many of our customer contracts and our customers decisions to make new purchases from us are dependent upon our customers commencement of new design projects. As a result, our business is significantly influenced by our customers business outlook and investment in new designs and products. The markets our customers serve are sensitive to product price, performance and the time it takes to bring their products to market. In order to be competitive and profitable in these markets, our customers demand high levels of productivity from their design teams, better predictability in shorter development schedules, high performance products and lower development and manufacturing costs. Semiconductor and electronics systems companies are responding to these challenges and users demand for increased functionality and smaller devices by combining subsystems - such as radio frequency, or RF, wireless communication, signal processing, microprocessors and memory controllers - onto a single silicon chip, creating a system-on-chip, or SoC, or combining multiple chips into a single chip package in a format referred to as system-in-package, or SiP. The trend toward subsystem integration has required these chip makers to find solutions to challenges previously addressed by system companies, such as verifying system-level functionality and hardware-software interoperability, and has driven the need for incorporation of preverified commercial IP into these systems. Our strategy is to provide our customers with the ability to address the broad range of issues that arise at the silicon, SoC, and system levels. Our offerings address many of the challenges associated with developing unique silicon circuitry, integrating that circuitry with design IP developed by us or third parties to create SoCs, designing the packaging and board-level interconnect which links ICs and SoCs, and combining the resulting hardware with software to create electronic systems. Significant issues that our customers face in creating their products include reducing power consumption, manufacturing microscopic circuitry, verifying device functionality and achieving technical performance targets, all while meeting aggressive time-to-market and cost requirements. Providers of EDA and IP solutions must deliver products that address these technical challenges while improving the productivity, predictability, reliability and profitability of the design processes and products of their customers. 20 Table of Contents Our products are engineered to improve our customers design productivity and design quality by providing a comprehensive set of EDA solutions, emulation hardware and a differentiated portfolio of design IP and VIP. Product and maintenance revenue includes fees from licenses to use our software and IP, from sales and leases of our emulation hardware products and from royalties generated by our customers shipment of their products containing certain types of our IP. We combine our products and technologies into categories related to major design activities: Functional Verification, including Emulation Hardware; Digital IC Design and Signoff; Custom IC Design; System Interconnect and Analysis; and IP. We have realigned these categories in the current period to better reflect our business objectives. As a result of the realignment, our Design for Manufacturing, or DFM, products are now categorized together with Digital IC Design and Signoff. We have also established a stand-alone category for our IP offerings, which includes design IP and VIP. The product category that was formerly called System Interconnect Design has been renamed System Interconnect and Analysis, to better reflect the growing system analysis component in this category. All prior periods presented have been conformed to the current period presentation. The products and technologies included in these categories are combined with ready-to-use packages of technologies assembled from our broad portfolio of IP and other associated components that provide comprehensive solutions for low power, mixed signal and designs at smaller geometries referred to as advanced process nodes, as well as popular designs based on design IP owned and licensed by other companies such as ARM Holdings plc. These solutions are marketed to users who specialize in areas such as system design and verification, functional verification, logic design, digital implementation, custom IC design and verification, and printed circuit board, or PCB, IC package and SiP design and analysis. The major Cadence design and verification platforms are branded as Incisive functional verification, Virtuoso custom IC design, Encounter digital IC design and Allegro system interconnect design. For additional information about our products, see the discussion in Item 1, Business, under the heading Products and Product Strategy, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013 . During the second quarter of fiscal 2013, we acquired Tensilica, Inc., or Tensilica, a privately held provider of configurable dataplane processing units, and Cosmic Circuits Private Limited, or Cosmic, a privately held provider of intellectual property used in system-on-chip design. These acquisitions, along with other acquired technology and internal development, expanded our design IP offerings, enabling us to offer customized IP as well as broader analog and mixed signal IP solutions to our customers. These acquisitions influenced revenues and operating expenses for the three months ended March 29, 2014 when compared to the same period of the prior year, which preceded the acquisitions. We have identified certain items that management uses as performance indicators to manage our business, including revenue, certain elements of operating expenses and cash flow from operations, and we describe these items further below under the heading Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources. Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income and net income, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. At least quarterly, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates, and make changes as deemed necessary. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results. For further information about our critical accounting estimates, see the discussion in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013 . 21 Results of Operations Financial results for the three months ended March 29, 2014 , as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2013 , reflect the following: An increase in our product and maintenance revenue, primarily because of increased business levels, increased revenue recognized from bookings in prior periods and incremental revenue from the licensing of the IP that we acquired as part of our fiscal 2013 acquisitions; An increase in employee-related costs, primarily consisting of incremental costs related to employees added from our fiscal 2013 acquisitions and costs related to hiring additional employees; An increase in stock-based compensation; An increase in amortization of acquired intangibles resulting from our fiscal 2013 acquisitions; and A provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 29, 2014 as compared to a benefit for income taxes for the three months ended March 30, 2013 . Revenue We primarily generate revenue from licensing our software and IP, selling or leasing our emulation hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software, emulation hardware and IP, providing engineering services and earning royalties generated from the use of our IP. The timing of our revenue is significantly affected by the mix of software, emulation hardware and IP products in the bookings executed in any given period and whether the revenue for such bookings is recognized over multiple periods or up front, upon completion of delivery. We seek to achieve a consistent revenue mix such that approximately 90% of our revenue is recurring in nature, and the remainder of the resulting revenue is recognized up-front, upon completion of delivery. Our ability to achieve this mix in any single fiscal period may be impacted primarily by hardware sales, because revenue for hardware sales is generally recognized up front in the period in which delivery is completed. For an additional description of the impact of emulation hardware sales on the timing of revenue recognition, see the discussion in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013 . Revenue by Period The following table shows our revenue for the three months ended March 29, 2014 and March 30, 2013 and the change in revenue between periods: Three Months Ended Change March 29, 2014 March 30, 2013 Amount Percentage (In millions, except percentages) Product and maintenance $ 357.4 $ 328.3 $ 29.1 9 % Services 21.2 26.0 (4.8 ) (18 )% Total revenue $ 378.6 $ 354.3 $ 24.3 7 % Product and maintenance revenue increased during the three months ended March 29, 2014 , as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2013 , primarily because of increased business levels, increased revenue recognized from bookings in prior periods and incremental revenue recognized from our fiscal 2013 acquisitions. Services revenue may fluctuate from period to period based on demand for, and our resources to fulfill, our services and customized IP offerings. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue during the three months ended March 29, 2014 or March 30, 2013 . Revenue by Product Group The following table shows the percentage of revenue contributed by each of our five product groups for the past five consecutive quarters: Three Months Ended March 29, 2014 December 28, 2013 September 28, 2013 June 29, 2013 March 30, 2013 Functional Verification, including Emulation Hardware 23 % 25 % 24 % 22 % 22 % Digital IC Design and Signoff 30 % 29 % 29 % 31 % 33 % Custom IC Design 27 % 26 % 28 % 28 % 28 % System Interconnect and Analysis 10 % 10 % 10 % 11 % 10 % IP 10 % 10 % 9 % 8 % 7 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % As described in Note 2 in the notes to consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013 , certain of our licensing arrangements allow customers the ability to remix among software products. Additionally, we have arrangements with customers that include a combination of our products, with the actual product selection and number of licensed users to be determined at a later date. For these arrangements, we estimate the allocation of the revenue to product groups based upon the expected usage of our products. The actual usage of our products by these customers may differ and, if that proves to be the case, the revenue allocation in the table above would differ. Revenue by Geography Three Months Ended Change March 29, 2014 March 30, 2013 Amount Percentage (In millions, except percentages) United States $ 163.1 $ 149.2 $ 13.9 9 % Other Americas 5.8 4.6 1.2 26 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 77.5 78.9 (1.4 ) (2 )% Japan 45.0 53.5 (8.5 ) (16 )% Asia 87.2 68.1 19.1 28 % Total revenue $ 378.6 $ 354.3 $ 24.3 7 % Most of our revenue is transacted in the United States dollar. However, certain revenue transactions are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, and we recognize reduced revenue from those contracts in periods when the Japanese yen weakens in value against the United States dollar and additional revenue from those contracts in periods when the Japanese yen strengthens against the United States dollar. For an additional description of how changes in foreign exchange rates affect our condensed consolidated financial statements, see the discussion under Item 3,