Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or this Quarterly Report, and in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2015 . This Quarterly Report contains statements that are not historical in nature, are predictive, or that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or contain forward-looking statements. Statements including, but not limited to, statements regarding the extent and timing of future revenues and expenses and customer demand, statements regarding the deployment of our products, statements regarding our reliance on third parties and other statements using words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, forecasts, intends, may, plans, projects, should, will and would, and words of similar import and the negatives thereof, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are predictions based upon our current expectations about future events. Actual results could vary materially as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, those expressed in these statements. We refer you to the Risk Factors, Results of Operations, Disclosures About Market Risk, and Liquidity and Capital Resources sections contained in this Quarterly Report, and the risks discussed in our other Securities Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings, which identify important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. Overview We develop system design enablement, or SDE, solutions that our customers use to design whole electronics systems and increasingly small and complex integrated circuits, or ICs, and electronic devices. Our solutions are designed to help our customers reduce the time to bring an electronics system, IC or electronic device to market and to reduce their design, development and manufacturing costs. Our SDE product offerings include electronic design automation, or EDA, software, emulation and prototyping hardware, and two categories of intellectual property, or IP, commonly referred to as verification IP, or VIP, and design IP. We provide maintenance for our software, emulation hardware, and IP product offerings. We also provide engineering services related to methodology, education, hosted design solutions and design services for advanced ICs and development of custom IP. These services help our customers manage and accelerate their electronics product development processes. Our customers include electronics systems and semiconductor companies, internet service providers and other technology companies that deliver a wide range of electronics products in a number of market segments, such as mobile and consumer devices, communications, cloud and data center infrastructure, personal computers, automotive systems, medical systems, and other devices. The renewal of many of our customer contracts and our customers decisions to make new purchases from us are dependent upon our customers commencement of new design projects. As a result, our business is significantly influenced by our customers business outlook and investment in new designs and products. Our future performance depends on our ability to innovate, commercialize newly developed solutions and enhance and maintain our current products. We must keep pace with our customers technical developments, satisfy industry standards and meet our customers increasingly demanding performance, productivity, quality and predictability requirements. We expect to continue to invest in research and development and customer and partner relationships. We combine our products and technologies into categories related to major design activities: Functional Verification, including Emulation Hardware; Digital IC Design and Signoff; Custom IC Design; System Interconnect and Analysis; and IP. The products and technologies included in these categories are combined with ready-to-use packages of technologies assembled from our broad portfolio of IP and other associated components that provide comprehensive solutions for low power, mixed signal and designs at smaller geometries referred to as advanced process nodes, as well as popular designs based on design IP owned and licensed by other companies. These solutions are marketed to users who specialize in areas such as system design and verification, functional verification, logic design, digital implementation, custom IC design and verification, printed circuit board, or PCB, IC package and system-in-package design and analysis. 18 For additional information about our products, see the discussion in Item 1, Business, under the heading Products and Product Strategy, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2015 . We have identified certain items that management uses as performance indicators to manage our business, including revenue, certain elements of operating expenses and cash flow from operations, and we describe these items further below under the headings Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources. Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income and net income, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. At least quarterly, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates, and make changes as deemed necessary. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results. For further information about our critical accounting estimates, see the discussion in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2015 . New Accounting Standards In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued a comprehensive revenue recognition standard that will supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under United States generally accepted accounting principles. The new standard will become effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. We are currently evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In April 2015, the FASB issued a new accounting standard requiring debt issuance costs to be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the associated debt liability. The new standard will become effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and requires retrospective application. Adoption of this standard will not have a material impact on our financial position. In April 2015, the FASB also issued a new accounting standard that provides explicit guidance with respect to accounting for fees paid in a cloud computing arrangement. The new standard will become effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and allows for prospective or retrospective application. We are currently evaluating the effect that the standard will have on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2015, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to simplify the accounting for measurement period adjustments that occur in periods after a business combination is consummated. The standard requires that an acquirer recognize adjustments to provisional amounts in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined and eliminates the requirement to retrospectively adjust the financial statements for measurement period adjustments. The new standard will become effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2016. Adoption of this standard will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We periodically review new accounting standards. Although some of the accounting standards that have been issued may be applicable to us, we have not identified any other new accounting standards that would have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. 19 Results of Operations Financial results for the three and nine months ended October 3, 2015 , as compared to the three and nine months ended September 27, 2014 , reflect the following: increased product and maintenance and services revenue, primarily because of increased demand for our software, services and IP offerings; continued investment in research and development activities and technical sales support; a tax benefit related to the effective settlement of a tax examination of a Cadence subsidiary; and favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our operating expenses. Revenue We primarily generate revenue from licensing our software and IP, selling or leasing our emulation hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software, emulation hardware and IP, providing engineering services and earning royalties generated from the use of our IP. The timing of our revenue is significantly affected by the mix of software, emulation hardware and IP products in the bookings executed in any given period and whether the revenue for such bookings is recognized in a recurring manner over multiple periods or up front, upon completion of delivery. We seek to achieve a consistent revenue mix such that approximately 90% of our revenue is recurring in nature, and the remainder of the resulting revenue is recognized up front, upon completion of delivery. Recurring revenue includes revenue from our license arrangements where revenue is recognized over multiple periods, services, royalties from certain IP arrangements, maintenance on perpetual software licenses and emulation hardware, and our operating leases of emulation hardware. Upfront revenue is primarily generated by our sales of emulation hardware and perpetual software licenses. Our ability to achieve this mix in any single fiscal period may be impacted primarily by hardware sales. For an additional description of the impact of emulation hardware sales on the timing of revenue recognition, see the discussion in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2015 . Revenue by Period The following table shows our revenue for the three months ended October 3, 2015 and September 27, 2014 and the change in revenue between periods: Three Months Ended Change October 3, 2015 September 27, 2014 Amount Percentage (In millions, except percentages) Product and maintenance $ 396.9 $ 374.1 $ 22.8 6 % Services 36.9 26.4 10.5 40 % Total revenue $ 433.8 $ 400.5 $ 33.3 8 % The following table shows our revenue for the nine months ended October 3, 2015 and September 27, 2014 and the change in revenue between periods: Nine Months Ended Change October 3, 2015 September 27, 2014 Amount Percentage (In millions, except percentages) Product and maintenance $ 1,165.4 $ 1,085.9 $ 79.5 7 % Services 95.6 71.9 23.7 33 % Total revenue $ 1,261.0 $ 1,157.8 $ 103.2 9 % 20 Product and maintenance revenue increased during the three and nine months ended October 3, 2015 , as compared to the three and nine months ended September 27, 2014 , primarily because of increased business levels. Services revenue also increased during the three and nine months ended October 3, 2015 due to increased demand for our service and IP offerings. Revenue may fluctuate from period to period based on demand for, and our resources to fulfill, our services, emulation hardware and IP offerings. No one customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue during the three and nine months ended October 3, 2015 or September 27, 2014 . Revenue by Product Group The following table shows the percentage of revenue contributed by each of our five product groups for the past five consecutive quarters: Three Months Ended September 27, 2014 January 3, 2015 April 4, 2015 July 4, 2015 October 3, 2015 Functional Verification, including Emulation Hardware 23 % 21 % 23 % 21 % 23 % Digital IC Design and Signoff 29 % 28 % 28 % 29 % 28 % Custom IC Design 27 % 28 % 27 % 27 % 26 % System Interconnect and Analysis 10 % 11 % 11 % 11 % 10 % IP 11 % 12 % 11 % 12 % 13 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % As described in Note 2 in the notes to consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2015 , certain of our licensing arrangements allow customers the ability to remix among software products. Additionally, we have arrangements with customers that include a combination of our products, with the actual product selection and number of licensed users to be determined at a later date. For these arrangements, we estimate the allocation of the revenue to product groups based upon the expected usage of our products. The actual usage of our products by these customers may differ and, if that proves to be the case, the revenue allocation in the table above would differ. Revenue by Geography Three Months Ended Change October 3, 2015 September 27, 2014 Amount Percentage (In millions, except percentages) United States $ 199.6 $ 179.9 $ 19.7 11 % Other Americas 6.7 6.1 0.6 10 % Asia 106.6 89.6 17.0 19 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 80.2 81.9 (1.7 ) (2 )% Japan 40.7 43.0 (2.3 ) (5 )% Total revenue $ 433.8 $ 400.5 $ 33.3 8 % Nine Months Ended Change October 3, 2015 September 27, 2014 Amount Percentage (In millions, except percentages) United States $ 579.0 $ 505.1 $ 73.9 15 % Other Americas 19.5 17.9 1.6 9 % Asia 301.8 264.9 36.9 14 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 240.8 241.5 (0.7 ) % Japan 119.9 128.4 (8.5 ) (7 )% Total revenue $ 1,261.0 $ 1,157.8 $ 103.2 9 % 21 Most of our revenue is transacted in the United States dollar. However, certain revenue transactions are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen. We recognize reduced revenue from those contracts in periods when the Japanese yen weakens in value against the United States dollar and additional revenue from those contracts in periods when the Japanese yen strengthens against the United States dollar. For an additional description of how changes in foreign exchange rates affect our condensed consolidated financial statements, see the discussion under Item 3,