Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Marketing and Sales We generally market our products and provide services to existing and prospective customers through a direct sales force consisting of sales people and applications engineers. Applications engineers provide technical pre-sales and post-sales support for our products. Due to the complexity of many of our products and the system design process, the sales cycle is generally long, requiring three to six months or more. During the sales cycle, our direct sales force generally provides technical presentations, product demonstrations and support for on-site customer evaluation of our solutions. We also promote our products and services through advertising, direct mail, trade shows, public relations and the internet. We selectively utilize value-added resellers to broaden our reach and reduce cost of sales. OrCAD and certain Allegro products are primarily marketed through these channels. With respect to international sales, we generally market and support our products and services through our subsidiaries. We also use a third-party distributor to sell our products and services to certain customers in Japan. Product Arrangements We license software and IP using three license types: term, subscription and perpetual. Customers who prefer to license technology for a specified, limited period of time will choose either a term or subscription license, and customers who prefer to have the right to use the technology continuously without time restriction will choose a perpetual license. Customers who desire to use new software technology during the life of the contract will select a subscription license, which allows them limited access to unspecified new technology on a when-and-if-available basis, as opposed to a term or perpetual license, which does not include the right to use new technology. Payment terms for term and subscription licenses generally provide for payments to be made over the license period and payment terms for perpetual licenses generally are net 30 days. Our emulation hardware products are either sold or leased to our customers. We generally license our design IP under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific designs. In addition, for certain of our IP license agreements, we collect royalties as our customers ship their product that includes our IP to their customers. For a further description of our license agreements, our emulation hardware sale or lease agreements, revenue recognition policies and results of operations, please refer to the discussion under Critical Accounting Estimates under Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Backlog Our backlog was approximately $ 2.1 billion and $1.9 billion as of January 3, 2015 and December 28, 2013 , respectively. Our backlog as of January 3, 2015 consisted of fully executed arrangements with effective dates commencing no later than January 3, 2015 with revenue to be recognized thereafter, and included a variety of types, generally including, but not limited to: licenses for software products and IP; maintenance on software, hardware and IP products; bookings for the sale of emulation hardware products that have expected delivery dates after January 3, 2015 but before April 4, 2015; leases of emulation hardware products; 5 Table of Contents licenses with payments that are outside our customary terms; and the undelivered portion of engineering services contracts. The substantial majority of our backlog consists of customer contracts for which product and maintenance revenue is recognized ratably, or on a recurring basis, over the contract life. Historically, we have not experienced significant cancellations of our contracts with customers. For engineering services contracts in backlog, completion dates are occasionally rescheduled, delaying revenue recognition under those contracts beyond the original anticipated completion date. Changes in customer license types or payment terms also can affect the timing of revenue recognition. During fiscal 2014 , approximately 70% of our revenue came from arrangements that were in backlog as of December 28, 2013 . We expect approximately $1.2 billion , or approximately 70% of our fiscal 2015 revenue, to come from arrangements that were in backlog as of January 3, 2015 . The actual percentage of revenue coming from backlog during fiscal 2015 may change if our actual business levels in fiscal 2015 are different than our current expectations. Research and Development Our research and development expense was $603.0 million during fiscal 2014 , $534.0 million during fiscal 2013 and $454.1 million during fiscal 2012 . The primary areas of our research and development include the following: Functional Verification, including Emulation Hardware; Digital IC Design and Signoff; Custom IC Design; System Interconnect and Analysis; and IP. Our future performance depends on our ability to innovate, commercialize newly developed solutions and enhance and maintain our current products. We must keep pace with our customers technical developments, satisfy industry standards and meet our customers increasingly demanding performance, productivity, quality and predictability requirements. Therefore, we expect to continue to invest in research and development. Manufacturing and Software Distribution We perform final assembly and testing of our emulation hardware products at our headquarters in San Jose, California. Subcontractors manufacture all major subassemblies, including all individual PCBs and custom ICs, and supply them for qualification and testing before their incorporation into the assembled product. Software and documentation are primarily distributed to customers by secure electronic delivery or on DVD. Proprietary Technology Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new licenses or renew existing licenses for third-party software and other intellectual property in the future. As part of performing engineering services for customers, our engineering services business uses certain software and other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including that of our competitors. Competition We compete in EDA most frequently with Synopsys, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation, but also with numerous other EDA providers (such as Ansys, Inc., Atrenta, Inc., ATopTech, Inc., Zuken Ltd. and many others offering point solutions), with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed, acquired or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics design and consulting companies. In the area of design IP, we compete with Synopsys, Inc., CEVA, Inc. and numerous other IP companies. Certain competitive factors in the engineering services business differ from those of the products businesses. While we compete with other EDA companies in the engineering services business, our principal competitors include independent engineering service businesses. Many of these companies are also customers, and therefore use our product offerings in the delivery of their services or products. 6 Table of Contents International Operations We have 56 sales offices, design centers and research and development facilities, approximately 66% of which are located outside of the United States. We primarily consider customer sales and support requirements, the availability of a skilled workforce, and costs and efficiencies, among other relative benefits, when determining what operations to locate internationally. For additional information relating to our international operations, including revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area, see Note 19 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. For risks related to our international operations, see the discussion under The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact our financial condition and Risks associated with our international operations could seriously harm our financial condition under Item 1A, Risk Factors. Employees As of January 3, 2015 , we employed approximately 6,100 people. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table provides information regarding our executive officers as of February 19, 2015 : Name Age Positions and Offices Lip-Bu Tan 55 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Geoffrey G. Ribar 56 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thomas P. Beckley 57 Senior Vice President, Research and Development James J. Cowie 50 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Anirudh Devgan 45 Senior Vice President, Research and Development Chi-Ping Hsu 59 Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer, EDA and Chief of Staff to the CEO Charlie Huang 50 Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations and Research and Development Martin N. Lund 46 Senior Vice President, Research and Development Our executive officers are appointed by the Board of Directors and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. LIP-BU TAN has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Cadence since January 2009. Mr. Tan has been a member of the Cadence Board of Directors since February 2004. In 1987, Mr. Tan founded Walden International, an international venture capital firm, and since that time has served as its Chairman. Mr. Tan also serves as a director of Ambarella, Inc., Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation and SINA Corporation. Mr. Tan has a B.S. from Nanyang University in Singapore, an M.S. in nuclear engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an M.B.A. from the University of San Francisco. GEOFFREY G. RIBAR has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cadence since November 2010. Prior to joining Cadence, from May 2008 to October 2010, Mr. Ribar served as Chief Financial Officer of Telegent Systems, Inc., a semiconductor company. Mr. Ribar has served as Chief Financial Officer at other semiconductor companies, including SiRF Technology, Inc., Asyst Technology, Inc., Matrix Semiconductor, Inc. and nVidia Corporation. Mr. Ribar also held various positions, including Corporate Controller, at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Mr. Ribar has a B.S. in chemistry and an M.B.A. from the University of Michigan. THOMAS P. BECKLEY has served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since September 2012. From April 2004 to September 2012, Mr. Beckley served as Corporate Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence. Prior to joining Cadence, Mr. Beckley served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Neolinear, Inc., a developer of auto-interactive and automated analog/RF tools and solutions for mixed-signal design that was acquired by Cadence in April 2004. Mr. Beckley has a B.S. in mathematics and physics from Kalamazoo College and an M.B.A. from Vanderbilt University. JAMES J. COWIE has served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Cadence since April 2008 and Secretary of Cadence since May 2008. From August 2000 to March 2008, Mr. Cowie held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President - Business Development, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Mr. Cowie has a B.A. in economics from Duke University and a J.D. from Stanford Law School. ANIRUDH DEVGAN has served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since November 2013. From May 2012 to November 2013, Dr. Devgan served as Corporate Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence. Prior to joining Cadence, from May 2005 to March 2012, Dr. Devgan served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the Custom Design Business Unit at Magma Design Automation Inc. Dr. Devgan has a B.Tech. in electrical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, and an M.S. and Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering from Carnegie Mellon University. 7 Table of Contents CHI-PING HSU has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer, EDA since November 2013. From November 2013 to December 2014, Dr. Hsu also served as Chief of Staff to the CEO of Cadence. From November 2008 to November 2013, Dr. Hsu served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development. From April 2003 to November 2008, Dr. Hsu held several positions at Cadence, including Corporate Vice President, IC Digital and Power Forward. Prior to joining Cadence, Dr. Hsu served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Get2Chip Inc., a supplier of high-performance system-on-chip synthesis that was acquired by Cadence in April 2003. Dr. Hsu also serves as a director of MoSys, Inc. Dr. Hsu has a B.S. in electrical engineering from National Taiwan University and a Ph.D. in electrical engineering and computer sciences from the University of California, Berkeley. CHARLIE HUANG has served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations and Research and Development of Cadence since July 2014. Prior to his current role, Dr. Huang served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations of Cadence since April 2011 and as Senior Vice President, Research and Development since July 2013. From January 2009 to April 2011, Dr. Huang served as Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of Cadence. From April 2010 to April 2011, Dr. Huang also served as Chief of Staff to the CEO of Cadence. From April 2007 to January 2009, Dr. Huang served as Senior Vice President - Business Development of Cadence. Dr. Huang was General Partner at Telos Venture Partners, a Cadence-affiliated venture capital firm, from 2004 to 2005. From 2001 to March 2007, Dr. Huang held several positions at Cadence in engineering management and business development. Prior to joining Cadence, Dr. Huang co-founded and was Chief Executive Officer of CadMOS Design Technology, Inc., an EDA company that was acquired by Cadence in 2001. Dr. Huang has a B.S. in electrical engineering and computer sciences from Shanghai Jiao Tong University and a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from Carnegie Mellon University. MARTIN N. LUND has served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since March 2012. Prior to joining Cadence, from March 2000 to March 2012, Mr. Lund held several positions at Broadcom Corporation, a provider of semiconductor solutions, most recently as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Broadcoms Network Switching Business. Mr. Lund has a technical degree from Frederiksberg Technical College and Ris National Laboratory at the Technical University of Denmark. 8 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the sections below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business Uncertainty in the global economy in general, and any potential downturn in the semiconductor and electronics industries in particular, may negatively impact our business and reduce our bookings levels and revenue. Purchases of our products and services are dependent upon the commencement of new design projects by IC manufacturers and electronics systems companies. The IC and electronics systems industries are cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The IC and electronics systems industries have also experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both these industries and their customers products. While spending on EDA products and services has grown in recent years, the current outlook for the semiconductor industry is uncertain and may result in a decrease in spending on EDA products and services. While we cannot predict global economic conditions, uncertainty about future economic conditions and future decline in consumer spending could negatively impact our customers businesses, reducing the number of new chip designs and their overall research and development spending, including their spending on EDA products and services, and as a result decrease demand for our products. Decreased bookings for our products and services, customer bankruptcies, consolidation among our customers, or problems or delays with our hardware suppliers or with the supply or delivery of our emulation hardware products could also adversely affect our ability to grow our business or adversely affect our future revenues and financial results. Our future business and financial results are subject to considerable uncertainty that could impact our stock price. If economic conditions deteriorate in the future, or, in particular, if semiconductor industry revenues do not grow or our suppliers of our hardware components and products are subject to problems or delays, our future revenues and financial results could be adversely affected. However, if economic conditions improve for our customers, the positive impact on our revenues and financial results may be deferred due to cautious customer research and development spending and our mix of licenses that result in recurring revenue. Our failure to respond quickly to technological developments or customers increasing technological requirements could make our products uncompetitive and obsolete. The industries in which we compete experience rapid technology developments, rapid changes in industry standards and customer requirements, and frequent introductions and improvements of new products. Currently, the industries we serve are experiencing the following trends: changes in the design and manufacturing of ICs, including migration to advanced process nodes and the introduction of three dimensional transistors, such as fin-based, multigate transistors, or FinFETs, present major challenges to the semiconductor industry, particularly in IC design, design automation, design of manufacturing equipment, and the manufacturing process itself. With migration to advanced process nodes, the industry must adapt to more complex physics and manufacturing challenges such as the need to draw features on silicon that are many times smaller than the wavelength of light used to draw the features via lithography. Models of each components electrical properties and behavior also become more complex as do requisite analysis, design, verification and manufacturing capabilities. Novel design tools and methodologies must be invented and enhanced quickly to remain competitive in the design of electronics in the smallest nanometer ranges; the challenges of advanced node design are leading some customers to work with more mature, less risky manufacturing processes that may reduce their need to upgrade or enhance their EDA products and design flows; the ability to design SoCs increases the complexity of managing a design that, at the lowest level, is represented by billions of shapes on fabrication masks. In addition, SoCs typically incorporate microprocessors and digital signal processors that are programmed with software, requiring simultaneous design of the IC and the related software embedded on the IC; with the availability of seemingly endless gate capacity, there is an increase in design reuse, or the combining of off-the-shelf design IP with custom logic to create ICs or SoCs. The unavailability of a broad range of high-quality design IP (including our own) that can be reliably incorporated into a customers design with our software products and services could lead to reduced demand for our products and services; increased technological capability of the Field-Programmable Gate Array, or FPGA, which is a programmable logic chip, creates an alternative to IC implementation for some electronics companies. This could reduce demand for our IC implementation products and services; 9 Table of Contents a growing number of low-cost engineering services businesses could reduce the need for some IC companies to invest in EDA products; and adoption of cloud computing technologies with accompanying new business models for an increasing number of software categories, including EDA. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these trends, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become obsolete. To compete successfully, we must develop, acquire or license new products and improve our existing products and processes on a schedule that keeps pace with technological developments and the requirements for products addressing a broad spectrum of designers and designer expertise in our industries. Our emulation hardware platforms must be enhanced periodically to reduce the likelihood that a competitor surpasses the capabilities we offer. Our introduction of new products could reduce the demand and revenue of our older products or affect their pricing. We must also be able to support a range of changing computer software, hardware platforms and customer preferences. A rapid transition to different business models associated with cloud computing technologies could result in reduced revenue. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in keeping pace with all, or any, of the customer trends. We have experienced varied operating results, and our operating results for any particular fiscal period are affected by the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our emulation hardware and IP products. We have recorded net losses in the past and may record net losses in the future. Various factors affect our operating results, and some of them are not within our control. Our operating results for any period are also affected by the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our emulation hardware and IP products. A substantial portion of the product revenue related to our emulation hardware business is recognized upon delivery, and our forecasted revenue results are based, in part, on our expectations of emulation hardware to be delivered in a particular quarter. Therefore, changes in emulation hardware bookings or deliveries relative to expectations will have a more immediate impact on our revenue than changes in software or services bookings, for which revenue is generally recognized over time. In recent years, we made significant investments to expand our IP offerings through, among other things, research and development and acquisitions. As we continue to expand our IP offerings, a portion of the revenue related to our IP bookings will be deferred until we complete and deliver the licensed IP to our customers. As a result, costs related to the research and development of the IP may be incurred prior to the recognition of the related revenue. Revenue related to our emulation hardware and IP products is inherently difficult to predict because sales of our emulation hardware and IP products depend on the commencement of new projects for the design and development of complex ICs and systems by our customers, our customers willingness to expend capital to deploy our emulation hardware or IP products in those projects and the availability of our emulation hardware or IP products for delivery. Therefore, our emulation hardware or IP sales may be delayed or may decrease if our customers delay or cancel projects because their spending is constrained or if there are problems or delays with the supply or delivery of our emulation hardware or IP products or our hardware suppliers. Moreover, the emulation hardware and IP markets are highly competitive, and our customers may choose to purchase a competitors hardware or IP product based on cost, performance or other factors. These factors may result in lower revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. Our software license mix is such that a substantial proportion of licenses require ratable revenue recognition, and we expect the license mix, combined with the modest growth in spending by our customers in the semiconductor sector, may make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue in future fiscal periods. The timing of our revenue recognition may be deferred until payments become due and payable from customers with nonlinear payment terms or as cash is collected from customers with low credit ratings. We plan our operating expenses based on forecasted revenue, expected business needs and other factors. These expenses and the effect of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. Bookings and the related revenue are harder to forecast in a difficult economic environment. If the macroeconomic environment weakens, and we experience a shortfall in bookings, our operating results could differ from our expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce our expenses in response to short-term business changes. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see Critical Accounting Estimates under Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that may lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Historical results of operations should not be viewed as reliable indicators of our future performance. If our revenue, operating results or business outlook for future periods fall short of the levels expected by us, securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. 10 Table of Contents We depend on sole suppliers for certain hardware components, making us vulnerable to supply disruption and price fluctuation. We depend on sole suppliers for certain hardware components. Our reliance on sole suppliers could result in product delivery problems and delays and reduced control over product pricing and quality. Though we prefer to have multiple sources to procure certain key components, in some cases it is not practical or feasible to do so. We may suffer a disruption in the supply of certain hardware components if we are unable to purchase sufficient components on a timely basis or at all for any reason. Any supply disruption, including delay in delivery of components by our suppliers or the bankruptcy or shutdown of our suppliers, could delay our production process and prevent us from delivering completed emulation hardware products to customers or from supplying new evaluation units to customers, which could have a negative impact on our revenue and operating results. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses and may not realize the expected benefits of these acquisitions. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses. During fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013, we acquired multiple businesses in order to expand our IP business and other product offerings. Our future revenue growth and expansion of our IP business is heavily dependent on our successful integration of these and other acquisitions. We may incur significant costs in connection with potential transactions, including acquisitions that are not consummated. Potential and completed acquisitions involve a number of risks. If any of the following acquisition-related risks occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be seriously harmed: the failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; overlapping customers and product sets that impact our ability to maintain revenue at historical rates; the failure to integrate and manage acquired products and businesses effectively; the failure to retain key employees of the acquired company or business; difficulties in combining previously separate companies or businesses into a single unit; the substantial diversion of managements attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating these transactions and integrating an acquired company or business; the discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of unanticipated liabilities assumed from the acquired company, business or assets, such that we cannot realize the anticipated value of the acquisition; difficulties related to integrating the products of an acquired company or business in, for example, distribution, engineering, licensing models or customer support areas; unanticipated costs; customer dissatisfaction with existing license agreements with us, possibly dissuading customers from licensing or buying products acquired by us after the expiration date of the existing license; or the failure to understand, compete and operate effectively in markets where we have limited experience. In a number of our completed acquisitions, we have agreed to make future payments, either in the form of employee retention bonuses or contingent purchase price payments, based on the performance of the acquired companies, businesses or the employees who joined us with the acquired companies or businesses. The performance goals pursuant to which these future payments may be made generally relate to the achievement by the acquired company or business, or by the employees who joined us with the acquired company or business, of certain specified bookings, revenue, run rate, product proliferation, product development or employee retention goals during a specified period following completion of the applicable acquisition. The specific performance goal levels and amounts and timing of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments vary with each acquisition. We may continue to use contingent purchase price payments in connection with acquisitions in the future and while we expect to derive value from an acquisition in excess of such contingent payment obligations, we may be required to make certain contingent payments without deriving the anticipated value. Future acquisitions may involve issuances of stock as full or partial payment of the purchase price for the acquired company or business, grants of restricted stock, restricted stock units or stock options to employees of the acquired companies or businesses (which may be dilutive to existing stockholders), expenditure of substantial cash resources or the incurrence of a material amount of debt. These arrangements may impact our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We have invested and expect to continue to invest in research and development efforts for new and existing products and technologies and technical sales support. Such investments may affect our operating results, and, if the return on these investments is lower or develops more slowly than we expect, our revenue and operating results may suffer. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in research and development for new and existing products, technologies and services in response to our customers increasing technological requirements, such as the migration to advanced process nodes and the introduction of FinFETs. Such investments may be in related areas, such as technical sales support. These investments may involve significant time, risks and uncertainties, including the risk that the expenses associated with these investments may affect our margins and operating results and that such investments may not generate sufficient revenues to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments. We believe that we must continue to invest a significant amount of time and resources in our research and development efforts and technical sales support to maintain and improve our competitive position. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. The competition in our industries is substantial, and we may not be able to continue to successfully compete in our industries. The EDA industry, the commercial electronics engineering services industry and the IP industry are highly competitive. If we fail to compete successfully in these industries, it could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. To compete in these industries, we must identify and develop or acquire innovative and cost-competitive EDA products, integrate them into platforms and market them in a timely manner. We may not be able to compete successfully in these industries. Factors that could affect our ability to compete successfully include: the development by others of competitive EDA products or platforms and engineering services, possibly resulting in a shift of customer preferences away from our products and services and significantly decreased revenue; aggressive pricing competition by some of our competitors may cause us to lose our competitive position, which could result in lower revenues or profitability and could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our software or emulation hardware systems products; the challenges of developing (or acquiring externally developed) technology solutions, including emulation hardware and IP offerings, that are adequate and competitive in meeting the rapidly evolving requirements of next-generation design challenges; the significant number of current and potential competitors in the EDA industry and the low cost of entry; intense competition to attract acquisition targets, possibly making it more difficult for us to acquire companies or technologies at an acceptable price, or at all; the combination of our EDA competitors or collaboration among many EDA companies to deliver more comprehensive offerings than they could individually; and decisions by electronics manufacturers to perform engineering services or IP development internally, rather than purchase these services from outside vendors due to budget constraints or excess engineering capacity. We compete in EDA most frequently with Synopsys, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation, but also with numerous other EDA providers (such as Ansys, Inc., Atrenta, Inc., ATopTech, Inc., Zuken Ltd. and many others offering point solutions), with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed, acquired or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics design and consulting companies. In the area of design IP, we compete with Synopsys, Inc., CEVA, Inc. and numerous other IP companies. Competitive pressures may require us to change our pricing, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The highly competitive markets in which we do business can put pressure on us to reduce the prices of our software, emulation hardware and IP. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products in an effort to recapture or gain market share or to sell other software or hardware products, we may then need to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully. Any such changes would be likely to reduce our profit margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Any substantial changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause sales revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for our products. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the number of sales or with lower spending, then the reduced revenues resulting from lower prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact our revenue, expenses, cash flows and financial condition. We have significant operations outside the United States. Our revenue from international operations as a percentage of total revenue was approximately 56% during fiscal 2014 , 56% during fiscal 2013 and 57% during fiscal 2012 , respectively. We expect that revenue from our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. We also transact business in various foreign currencies. The volatility of foreign currencies in certain countries where we conduct business, most notably the Japanese yen, European Union euro, and Indian rupee have had and may in the future have an effect on our revenue or operating results. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the United States, or U.S., dollar and the currencies of other countries where we conduct business could seriously affect our business, operating results or financial condition. For example, when a foreign currency declines in value relative to the U.S. dollar, it takes more of the foreign currency to purchase the same amount of U.S. dollars than before the change. If we price our products and services in the foreign currency, we receive fewer U.S. dollars than we did before the change. If we price our products and services in U.S. dollars, the decrease in value of the local currency results in an increase in the price for our products and services compared to those products of our competitors that are priced in local currency. This could result in our prices being uncompetitive in markets where business is transacted in the local currency. On the other hand, when a foreign currency increases in value relative to the U.S. dollar, it takes more U.S. dollars to purchase the same amount of the foreign currency. As we use the foreign currency to fund payroll costs and other operating expenses in our international operations, this results in an increase in operating expenses. Approximately 30% of our total costs and expenses are transacted in foreign currencies. Our attempts to reduce the effect of foreign currency fluctuations may be unsuccessful, and significant exchange rate movements may adversely impact our results of operations as expressed in U.S. dollars. Our stock price has been subject to fluctuations and may continue to be subject to fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and may fluctuate or decline in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: quarterly or annual operating or financial results or forecasts that fail to meet or are inconsistent with earlier projections or the expectations of our securities analysts or investors; changes in our forecasted bookings, revenue, earnings or operating cash flow estimates; market conditions in the IC, electronics systems and semiconductor industries; announcements of a restructuring plan; changes in management; a gain or loss of a significant customer or market segment share; litigation; and announcements of new products or acquisitions of new technologies by us, our competitors or our customers. In addition, equity markets in general, and the equities of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Such price and volume fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. Our future revenue is dependent in part upon our installed customer base continuing to license or buy additional products and purchase additional services. Our installed customer base has traditionally generated additional new license, service and maintenance revenues. In future periods, customers may not necessarily license or buy additional products or contract for additional services or maintenance. Our customers, many of which are large semiconductor and systems companies, often have significant bargaining power in negotiations with us. Mergers or acquisitions of our customers can reduce the total level of purchases of our software, hardware and services, and in some cases, increase customers bargaining power in negotiations with their suppliers, including us. Litigation could adversely affect our financial condition or operations. We currently are, and in the future may be, involved in various disputes and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, including customer indemnification, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contracts, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. For information regarding the litigation matters in which we are currently engaged, please refer to the discussion under Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Note 16 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. We cannot provide any assurances that the final outcome of these lawsuits or any other proceedings that may arise in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Litigation can be time consuming and expensive and could divert managements time and attention from our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. 13 Table of Contents Risks associated with our international operations could seriously harm our financial condition. A significant amount of our revenue is derived from our international operations, and we have offices throughout the world, including key research and development facilities outside of the United States. Our international operations may be subject to a number of risks, including: the adoption or expansion of government trade restrictions, including tariffs and other trade barriers; limitations on repatriation of earnings; limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies; reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; performance of national economies; longer collection periods for receivables and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in managing foreign operations; political and economic instability; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; inability to continue to offer competitive compensation in certain growing regions; differing employment practices and labor issues; United States and other governments licensing requirements for exports, which may lengthen the sales cycle or restrict or prohibit the sale or licensing of certain products; and variations in costs or expenses associated with our international operations, including as a result of changes in foreign tax laws or devaluation of the U.S. dollar relative to other foreign currencies. Some of our international research and development and other facilities are in parts of the world where there may be a greater risk of business interruption as a result of political instability, terrorist acts or military conflicts than businesses located domestically. Furthermore, this potential harm is exacerbated because damage to or disruptions at our international research and development facilities could have a more significant adverse effect on our ability to develop new or improve existing products than other businesses that may only have sales offices or other less critical operations abroad. We are not insured for losses or interruptions caused by acts of war. Furthermore, our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Activities that interfere with our international connectivity, such as cyber hacking, the introduction of a virus into our computer systems or natural disasters near any of our international locations, could significantly interfere with our business operations. In addition, internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not prevent our employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the laws and regulations applicable to our worldwide operations. We depend upon our management team and key employees, and our failure to attract, train, motivate and retain management and key employees may make us less competitive and therefore harm our results of operations. Our business depends upon the continued services, efforts and abilities of our senior management and other key employees. Competition for highly skilled executive officers and employees can be intense, particularly in geographic areas recognized as high technology centers such as the Silicon Valley area, where our principal offices are located, and in other locations where we maintain facilities. In addition, competition for qualified personnel in the EDA, commercial electronics engineering services and IP industries has intensified. We may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring and departure of executive officers, and as a result, we may experience disruption to our business that may harm our operating results and our relationships with our employees, customers and suppliers may be adversely affected. To attract, retain and motivate individuals with the requisite expertise, we may be required to grant large numbers of stock options or other stock-based incentive awards, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders and increase compensation expense, and pay significant base salaries and cash bonuses, which could harm our operating results. The high cost of training new employees, not fully utilizing these employees, or losing trained employees to competing employers could also reduce our operating margins and harm our business or operating results. In addition, applicable rules and regulations require stockholder approval for new equity compensation plans and significant amendments to existing equity compensation plans (including increases in shares available for issuance under such plans), and prohibit publicly-traded companies from giving a proxy to vote on equity compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions. These rules and regulations could make it more difficult for us to grant equity compensation to employees in the future. To the extent that these regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant equity compensation to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could materially and adversely affect our business. 14 Table of Contents We could suffer serious harm to our business because of the infringement of our intellectual property rights by third parties or because of our infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. There are numerous EDA, VIP, design IP and Tensilica IP product-related patents. New patents are being issued at a rapid rate and are owned by EDA companies as well as entities and individuals outside the EDA industry, including parties whose income is primarily derived from infringement-related litigation. It is not always practicable to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes the patent rights of others. As a result, from time to time, we may be compelled to respond to or prosecute intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights or defend a customers rights. Intellectual property infringement claims, including contractual defense reimbursement obligations related to third-party claims against our customers, regardless of merit, could consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation or cause product shipment delays, all of which could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. The risk of infringement and related indemnification claims associated with design IP products that are incorporated into a customer product broadly used by consumers, may be higher than the risk associated with our software products. In settling these claims, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not have terms favorable to us. Being compelled to enter into a license agreement with unfavorable terms could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Any potential intellectual property litigation could compel us to do one or more of the following: pay damages (including the potential for treble damages), license fees or royalties (including royalties for past periods) to the party claiming infringement; stop licensing products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property; obtain a license from the owner of the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or redesign the challenged technology, which could be time consuming and costly, or impossible. If we were compelled to take any of these actions, our business or operating results may suffer. We rely on our proprietary technology, as well as software and other intellectual property rights licensed to us by third parties, and we cannot assure you that the precautions taken to protect our rights will be adequate or that we will continue to be able to adequately secure such intellectual property rights from third parties. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Despite the precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, third parties have tried in the past, and may try in the future, to challenge, invalidate or circumvent these safeguards. Our patents and other intellectual property rights may not provide us with sufficient competitive advantages. Patents may not be issued on any of our pending applications and our issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent as applicable law protects these rights in the United States. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights, or deter or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. Many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new or renew existing licenses for such software and other intellectual property in the future. Our engineering services business holds licenses to certain software and other intellectual property owned by third parties, including that of our competitors. Our failure to obtain software, other intellectual property licenses or other intellectual property rights that are necessary or helpful for our business on favorable terms, or our need to engage in litigation over these licenses or rights, could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Our operating results and revenue could be adversely affected by customer payment delays, customer bankruptcies and defaults or modifications of licenses. Occasionally, our customers file for bankruptcy or request to modify license terms. If our customers experience adversity in their business, they may delay or default on their payment obligations to us, file for bankruptcy or modify or cancel plans to license our products. For instance, if our customers are not successful in generating sufficient cash or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us, although these obligations are generally not cancelable. Our customers inability to fulfill payment obligations, in turn, may adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. Additionally, our customers have, in the past, sought, and may, in the future, seek, to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments. Payment defaults by our customers or significant reductions in existing contractual commitments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Because of the relatively high levels of volatility that continue to drive significant fluctuations in asset prices, as well as concern regarding high levels of leverage in sovereign and corporate debt, the capital and credit markets are volatile and unpredictable. If we were to seek funding from the capital or credit markets in response to any material level of customer defaults, we may not be able to secure funding on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which may have a material negative effect on our business. If our security measures are breached, and an unauthorized party obtains access to customer data or our proprietary business information, our information systems may be perceived as being unsecure, which could harm our business and reputation. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of our proprietary information and that of our customers. We have offices throughout the world, including key research and development facilities outside of the United States. Our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber attacks or breached due to an employee error or other disruption that could result in unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information and could significantly interfere with our business operations. Breaches of our security measures could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage information systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, if we select a vendor that uses cyber storage of information as part of their service or product offerings, despite our attempts to validate the security of such services, our proprietary information may be misappropriated by third parties. In the event of an actual or perceived breach of our security, or the security of one of our vendors, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could suffer damage to our reputation or our business, or lose existing customers and our ability to obtain new customers. The long sales cycle of our products and services may cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly. Generally, we have a long sales cycle that can extend up to six months or longer. The complexity and expense associated with our products and services generally require a lengthy customer education, evaluation and approval process. Consequently, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management effort and expense to develop potential relationships that do not result in agreements or revenue and may prevent us from pursuing other opportunities. In addition, sales of our products and services have been and may in the future be delayed if customers delay approval or commencement of projects because of: the timing of customers competitive evaluation processes; or customers budgetary constraints and budget cycles. Long sales cycles for hardware products subject us to a number of significant risks over which we have limited control, including insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory, variations in inventory valuation and fluctuations in quarterly operating results. We have substantial cash requirements in the United States, but a significant portion of our cash is held and generated outside of the United States, and if our cash available in the United States and the cash available under our revolving credit facility is insufficient to meet our operating expenses and debt repayment obligations in the United States, then we may be required to raise cash in ways that could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. We have significant operations outside the United States. As of January 3, 2015 , approximately 45% of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balance was held by subsidiaries outside the United States, with the remainder of the balance held by us or our subsidiaries in the United States. We believe that the combination of our existing U.S. cash, cash equivalents, future U.S. operating cash flows and cash available under our revolving credit facility are sufficient to meet our ongoing U.S. operating expenses and debt repayment obligations. However, if these sources of cash were insufficient to meet our future funding obligations in the United States, we could be required to seek other available funding sources, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and the market price of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents The investment of our cash, cash equivalents and investments in money market funds and marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. Our investments include various money market funds and marketable debt securities, such as corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. government agency securities, bank certificates of deposit and commercial paper. Weakened financial markets have at times adversely impacted the general credit, liquidity, market prices and interest rates for these and other types of debt securities. Additionally, changes in monetary policy by the Federal Open Market Committee and concerns about the rising U.S. government debt level may cause a decrease in the purchasing power of the U.S. dollar and adversely affect our investment portfolio. Furthermore, if there is a default or downgrade of U.S. government or agency debt securities, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our liquidity, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The financial market and monetary risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows. Our operating results could be adversely affected as a result of changes in our effective tax rates or by material differences between our forecasted annual effective tax rates and actual tax rates. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the following: changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws in the United States, Ireland, Hungary, the United Kingdom and other international locations where we have operations; earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the United States federal and state statutory tax rates; an increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation and impairment of goodwill; changes in the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets; changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information that results in a recognition, derecognition or change in measurement of a tax position taken in a prior period; increases to interest or penalty expenses classified in the financial statements as income taxes; new accounting standards or interpretations of such standards; a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings outside the United States; or results of tax examinations by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, state, and foreign tax authorities. Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. Tax laws in the various jurisdictions where we have operations may be subject to significant change in the future based on the current economic and political environment. The United States and many other countries are actively considering fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to multinational corporations which could impact our future effective tax rates. Forecasts of our annual effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of estimating our annual income or loss, the mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as benefits from available deferred tax assets, the impact of various accounting rules and results of tax audits. Forecasts of our annual effective tax rate do not include the anticipation of future tax law changes. If there were a material difference between forecasted and actual tax rates then it could have a material impact on our results of operations. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles, and we may incur significant costs to adjust our accounting systems and processes to comply with significant changes. United States generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. During fiscal 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition which could change the way we account for certain of our sales transactions. The future adoption of this standard and changes in other principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. In addition, the SEC is considering a multi-year plan that could ultimately lead to the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by U.S. issuers in their SEC filings. Any such change could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. In addition, we may need to significantly change our customer contracts, accounting systems and processes if we are required to adopt future or proposed changes in accounting principles noted above. The cost and effect of these changes may negatively impact our results of operations during the periods of transition. 17 Table of Contents The IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our tax returns, and the outcome of current and future tax examinations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. The IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns and other non-income tax returns, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth or franchise, property, goods and services, consumption, import, stamp, and excise taxes, in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Governments are increasingly focused on ways to increase tax revenues, particularly from multinational corporations, which may lead to an increase in audit activity and harsher stances taken by tax authorities. The calculation of our provision for income taxes and our accruals for other taxes requires us to use significant judgment and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations. In determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, we regularly assess the potential settlement outcomes resulting from income tax examinations. However, the final outcome of tax examinations, including the total amount payable or the timing of any such payments upon resolution of these issues, cannot be estimated with certainty. In addition, we cannot be certain that such amount will not be materially different from the amount that is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals for other taxes. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes, penalties or interest as a result of a current or a future examination, we may be required to record charges to operations in future periods that could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows in the applicable period or periods. Our restructuring plans may not result in the benefits we have anticipated, possibly having a negative effect on our future operating results. In recent fiscal years, we have initiated restructuring plans in an effort to reallocate or decrease costs by reducing our workforce and by consolidating facilities. We incur substantial costs to implement restructuring plans, and our restructuring activities may subject us to litigation risks and expenses. In addition, our restructuring plans may have other consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce, a negative effect on employee morale or our ability to attract highly skilled employees. Our competitors may also use our restructuring plans to seek to gain a competitive advantage over us. The restructuring plans could also cause our remaining employees to leave or result in reduced productivity by our employees, and, in turn, this may affect our revenue and other operating results in the future. Failure to obtain export licenses could harm our business by rendering us unable to ship products and transfer our technology outside of the United States. We must comply with regulations of the United States and of certain other countries in shipping our products and transferring our technology outside the United States and to foreign nationals. Any significant future difficulty in complying with these regulations could harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Errors or defects in our products and services could expose us to liability and harm our business. Our customers use our products and services in designing and developing products that involve a high degree of technological complexity, each of which has its own specifications. Because of the complexity of the systems and products with which we work, some of our products and designs can be adequately tested only when put to full use in the marketplace. As a result, our customers or their end users may discover errors or defects in our software or the systems we design, or the products or systems incorporating our design and intellectual property may not operate as expected. Errors or defects could result in: loss of customers; loss of market share; damage to our reputation; failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; diversion of development resources to resolve the problem; loss of or delay in revenue; increased service costs; and liability for damages. If we become subject to unfair hiring claims, we could be prevented from hiring needed employees, incur liability for damages and incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. When companies in our industry lose employees to competitors, they frequently claim that these competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that the employment of these persons would involve the disclosure or use of trade secrets. These claims could prevent us from hiring employees or cause us to incur liability for damages. We could also incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against these claims, regardless of their merits. Defending ourselves from these claims could also divert the attention of our management away from our operations. 18 Table of Contents Anti-takeover defenses in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions under Delaware law could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that apply to us could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. For example: Our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue, at any time and without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as it may determine. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. However, the rights of holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with a person owning 15% or more of its voting stock, or who is affiliated with the corporation and owned 15% or more of its voting stock at any time within three years prior to the proposed business combination, for a period of three years from the date the person became a 15% owner, unless specified conditions are met. All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and could allow our Board of Directors to resist, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if a proposed transaction were favored by a majority of our independent stockholders. Conflict minerals regulations may cause us to continue to incur additional expenses and may adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. In August 2012, the SEC adopted new rules establishing disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of certain minerals referred to as conflict minerals in products. These rules require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such minerals in our products originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with these rules, including costs associated with conducting due diligence on our supply chain and fulfilling our reporting requirements, and we may incur costs related to changes to our products, processes or sources of supply. In addition, these rules could affect the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our emulation hardware products and IP boards, or the Covered Products, and thus impact our ability to source, at competitive prices, certain materials that are used in the Covered Products. Finally, our customers may prefer to purchase products from vendors who claim that all minerals in their products are conflict-free, and our revenues may be harmed or we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify that our Covered Products are conflict-free. Our business is subject to the risk of earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations and certain of our distribution facilities, is located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known to experience seismic activity. If significant seismic activity were to occur, our operations may be interrupted, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our other offices in the United States and in other countries around the world may be adversely impacted by natural disasters. If a natural disaster occurs at or near any of our offices, our operations may be interrupted, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. If a natural disaster impacts a significant number of our customers, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Risks Related to Our Securities and Indebtedness Warrant transactions associated with our 2015 Notes will, in certain circumstances, dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. At the time of issuance of our 2015 Notes we entered into separate warrant transactions, or the 2015 Warrants, for the purchase of up to approximately 46.4 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of $10.78 per share. These warrants expire on various dates from September 2015 through December 2015. These warrants will be settled in net shares. Upon expiration of the warrants, we will issue shares of our common stock to the purchasers of the warrants that represent the value by which the price of our common stock exceeds the strike price stipulated within the particular warrant agreement. If our stock price is above the warrants strike price upon expiration of the warrants, the warrants will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. The warrants will also dilute our diluted earnings per share in periods when our average closing stock price exceeds the strike price of the particular warrant. Any sales in the public market of common stock issuable upon net settlement at expiration of the warrants could adversely affect then current market prices of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness. We have a substantial level of debt. As of January 3, 2015 , we had total outstanding indebtedness with a principal balance of approximately $700.0 million . We also had the ability to borrow $250.0 million under our revolving credit facility, with the right to request increased capacity up to an additional $150.0 million upon the receipt of lender commitments, for total maximum borrowings of $ 400.0 million available under our revolving credit facility. Subject to the limits contained in the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility, the indentures that govern the 4.375% Senior Notes due 2024, or the 2024 Notes, and the 2.625% Cash Convertible Senior Notes Due 2015, or the 2015 Notes, and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to service our debt as described above; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; utilizing large portions of our U.S. cash to service our debt obligations because those payments are made in the United States, which may require us to repatriate cash from outside the United States and incur unanticipated or unfavorable tax expenses; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, are at variable rates of interest; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors and competitors that have greater access to capital resources; and increasing our cost of borrowing. At the option of the holders of our outstanding notes, we may, under certain circumstances, be required to repurchase such notes. Under the terms of our 2015 Notes and 2024 Notes, we may be required to repurchase for cash such notes prior to their maturity in connection with the occurrence of certain significant corporate events. In the case of the 2015 Notes, we are required to offer to repurchase such notes upon a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture related to such notes), such as a change of control in which substantially all of the consideration does not consist of publicly traded securities. In the case of the 2024 Notes, we are required to offer to repurchase such notes upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indenture related to such notes), such as a change of control accompanied by certain downgrades in the credit ratings of such notes. The repayment obligations under such notes may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company. If we were required to pay the 2024 Notes prior to their scheduled maturity, it could have a significant negative impact on our cash and liquidity and could impact our ability to invest financial resources in other strategic initiatives. The terms of the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our 2024 Notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; issue certain preferred stock or similar equity securities; make certain investments; sell assets; incur liens; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. 20 Table of Contents In addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet them. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility would permit the lenders under our revolving credit facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. In the event our lenders or note holders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in how we conduct our business; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The indentures governing our 2024 Notes also contain certain restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to incur liens and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our strategy. In addition, our financial results, our substantial indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of our financing. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. In addition, we conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, none of which are currently guarantors of our indebtedness. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they become guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. While the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility limits the ability of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of our debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to loan money and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines that permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us, potentially hindering our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and increasing our costs of registration. 21 Table of Contents Hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of the 2015 Notes may affect the value of our common stock. We entered into hedge transactions with various financial institutions at the time of the issuance of the 2015 Notes, or the 2015 Notes Hedges, with the objective of limiting our exposure to the additional cash payments above the principal amount we may be required to pay upon conversion of the 2015 Notes. We also entered into separate warrant transactions with the same financial institutions. In connection with these hedge and warrant transactions, financial institutions purchased our common stock in secondary market transactions and entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. These entities or their affiliates are likely to unwind or modify their hedge positions prior to conversion or maturity of the 2015 Notes. In connection with the unwinding or modification of these hedge positions, these entities or their affiliates may purchase or sell shares of our common stock, other securities of ours or other financial instruments relating to such hedge positions. Any of these transactions and activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and the amount of cash that the 2015 Notes holders will receive upon conversion of the 2015 Notes. We are subject to the risk that the hedge participants fail to fulfill their obligations under the 2015 Notes hedge transactions. The 2015 Notes Hedges are intended to reduce our exposure to cash payments above the principal balance of the 2015 Notes in the event of cash conversions. If the participants in the hedge transactions are unwilling or unable to perform their obligations under those transactions for any reason, we would not be able to receive the benefits of such transactions. We cannot provide any assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the participants in the hedge transactions. Our 2015 Notes were convertible as of January 3, 2015 and mature in June 2015. If the hedge participants fail to meet their obligations for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the 2024 Notes and the 2015 Notes, then subject to any collateral arrangements we may enter into, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of our company. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If we were to borrow under our revolving credit facility and if interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. Assuming all loans were fully drawn and that we were to fully exercise our right to increase borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility, each quarter point change in interest rates would result in an approximately $1.0 million change in annual interest expense on our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility. In the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. Various factors could increase our future borrowing costs or reduce our access to capital, including a lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our 2024 Notes by rating agencies. We may in the future seek additional financing for a variety of reasons, and our future borrowing costs and access to capital could be affected by factors including the condition of the debt and equity markets, the condition of the economy generally, prevailing interest rates, our level of indebtedness and our business and financial condition. In addition, the 2024 Notes currently have an investment grade rating, and any rating assigned could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agencys judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the 2024 Notes. Any future lowering of the ratings of the 2024 Notes likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties We own land and buildings at our headquarters located in San Jose, California. We also own buildings in India. As of January 3, 2015 , the total square footage of our owned buildings was approximately 965,000 . We lease additional facilities in the United States and various other countries. We sublease certain of these facilities where space is not fully utilized or has been impacted as part of our restructuring plans. We believe that these facilities are adequate for our current needs and that suitable additional or substitute space will be available as needed to accommodate any expansion of our operations. Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we are involved in various disputes and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, indemnification obligations, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contracts, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. At least quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount or the range of loss can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based on our judgments using the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation matters and may revise our estimates. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 23 Table of Contents PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Common Stock Market Price Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CDNS. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock in the past, and we do not plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As described in Note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, our revolving credit facility restricts certain payments, including dividends and share repurchases. As of February 7, 2015 , we had 691 registered stockholders and 30,273 beneficial owners of our common stock. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our common stock for each fiscal quarter in the two-year period ended January 3, 2015 : 2014 High Low Fourth Quarter $ 19.54 $ 15.50 Third Quarter 18.25 16.25 Second Quarter 17.55 13.63 First Quarter 16.25 13.59 2013 Fourth Quarter $ 14.72 $ 12.55 Third Quarter 15.96 13.13 Second Quarter 15.32 12.33 First Quarter 14.81 12.57 24 Table of Contents Stockholder Return Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative 5-year total stockholder return on our common stock relative to the cumulative total return of the NASDAQ Composite index and the S&P 400 Information Technology index. The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock on January 2, 2010 and in each index on December 31, 2009 (including reinvestment of dividends) was $100 and tracks it each year thereafter on the last day of Cadences fiscal year through January 3, 2015 and, for each index, on the last day of the calendar year. 1/2/2010 1/1/2011 12/31/2011 12/29/2012 12/28/2013 1/3/2015 Cadence Design Systems, Inc. 100.00 137.90 173.62 224.37 232.55 314.36 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 117.61 118.70 139.00 196.83 223.74 S&P 400 Information Technology 100.00 128.72 115.22 135.29 173.25 187.84 The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 25 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities In February 2008, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase shares of our common stock in the open market with a value of up to $500.0 million in the aggregate. In August 2008, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase shares of our common stock in the open market with a value of up to an additional $500.0 million in the aggregate. $714.3 million remained under these authorizations as of January 3, 2015 . In January 2014, our Board of Directors approved a two-year plan to repurchase shares of our common stock of up to an aggregate of $100.0 million under the 2008 authorizations. In July 2014, our Board of Directors replaced the aggregate $100.0 million stock repurchase plan with a new two-year plan to repurchase shares of our common stock of up to an aggregate of $300.0 million under the 2008 authorizations, beginning with the third quarter of fiscal 2014. The following table presents repurchases made under our 2008 authorizations and shares surrendered by employees to satisfy income tax withholding obligations during the three months ended January 3, 2015 : Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plan or Program Maximum Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under Publicly Announced Plan or Program (1) (In millions) September 28, 2014 November 1, 2014 814,658 $ 16.89 801,398 $ 738.3 November 2, 2014 November 29, 2014 660,401 $ 18.24 641,035 $ 726.6 November 30, 2014 January 3, 2015 686,454 $ 18.51 664,667 $ 714.3 Total 2,161,513 $ 17.82 2,107,100 _________________ (1) Shares purchased that were not part of our publicly announced repurchase programs represent employee surrender of shares of restricted stock to satisfy employee income tax withholding obligations due upon vesting, and do not reduce the dollar value that may yet be purchased under our publicly announced repurchase programs. 26 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data-Unaudited The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and the information contained in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results. The notes below the table are provided for comparability purposes due to adoptions of accounting pronouncements on a prospective basis from the date of adoption or to describe significant transactions that may not occur frequently. Five fiscal years ended January 3, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (In millions, except per share amounts) Revenue (1) $ 1,580.9 $ 1,460.1 $ 1,326.4 $ 1,149.8 $ 936.0 Income (loss) from operations (1) 206.6 189.0 211.7 120.4 (29.0 ) Net income (1) (2) (3) (4) 158.9 164.2 439.9 72.2 126.5 Net income per share-diluted (1) (2) (3) (4) 0.52 0.56 1.57 0.27 0.48 Total assets 3,209.6 2,428.6 2,287.0 1,761.3 1,732.1 Debt 691.2 324.8 447.0 426.0 549.7 Stockholders equity (5) 1,333.6 1,156.1 915.2 411.1 276.7 _________________ (1) We adopted new revenue recognition accounting standards on January 2, 2011 for revenue arrangements that include both hardware and software elements. For an additional description of our revenue recognition policy, see Note 2 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. (2) During fiscal 2010, we recorded a $147.9 million benefit for income taxes due to the effective settlement of the IRS examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2000 through 2002. During fiscal 2010, we also recognized a $66.7 million benefit for income taxes due to the release of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance primarily resulting from the increase in deferred tax liabilities from the intangible assets acquired with our acquisition of Denali Software, Inc. (3) During fiscal 2012, we recorded a $219.6 million benefit for income taxes due to the release of a substantial portion of the United States deferred tax asset valuation allowance and a $36.7 million benefit for income taxes due to the effective settlement of the State of California Franchise Tax Board, or FTB, examination of our California income tax returns for the tax years 2001 through 2003. For an additional description of, and disclosures regarding, our income tax provision or benefit, see Note 6 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. (4) During fiscal 2013, we recorded a $33.7 million benefit for income taxes from the release of an uncertain tax position, including related interest and penalties, and a $5.9 million tax benefit from the retroactive enactment of the fiscal 2012 United States federal research tax credit. For an additional description of, and disclosures regarding, our income tax provision or benefit, see Note 6 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. (5) We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. 27 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and with Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Please refer to the cautionary language at the beginning of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding forward-looking statements. Business Overview We continue to focus on executing our system design enablement, or SDE, strategy to deliver the technologies necessary for integrated system and SoC design with an end product in mind. Our growing core EDA business is at the heart of our SDE strategy and is complemented by our business in IP, system interconnect and analysis, system level design and hardware-software development. Our business serves customers that are driven by end-user demand for electronics systems, ICs and devices that are smaller, use less power and provide more functionality. We offer innovative solutions to help our customers meet these demands. Our future performance depends on our ability to innovate, commercialize newly developed solutions and enhance and maintain our current products. We must keep pace with our customers technical developments, satisfy industry standards and meet our customers increasingly demanding performance, productivity, quality and predictability requirements. We expect to continue to invest in research and development and customer and partner relationships. We have identified certain items that management uses as performance indicators to manage our business, including revenue, certain elements of operating expenses and cash flow from operations, and we describe these items further below under the headings Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources. Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income and net income, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. At least quarterly, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates, and make changes as deemed necessary. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for income taxes, revenue recognition, business combinations, intangible asset and goodwill impairments and fair value of financial instruments have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements; therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting estimates. For information on our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Accounting for Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our provision for income taxes could be adversely affected by our earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities including changes in our assessment of valuation allowances, changes in the relevant tax laws or interpretations of these tax laws, and developments in current and future tax examinations. We only recognize the tax benefit of an income tax position if we judge that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained, solely on its technical merits, in a tax audit including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. To make this judgment, we must interpret complex and sometimes ambiguous tax laws, regulations and administrative practices. If we judge that an income tax position meets this recognition threshold, then we must measure the amount of the tax benefit to be recognized by estimating the largest amount of tax benefit that has a greater than 50% cumulative probability of being realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all of the relevant facts. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as this requires us to determine the probability of various possible settlement outcomes. We must reevaluate our income tax positions on a quarterly basis to consider factors such as changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, the lapse of applicable statute of limitations, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. For a more detailed description of our unrecognized tax benefits, see Note 6 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 28 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition We begin to recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met: we have persuasive evidence of an arrangement with a customer; delivery has occurred; the fee for the arrangement is considered to be fixed or determinable at the outset of the arrangement; and collectibility of the fee is probable. Significant judgment is involved in the determination of whether the facts and circumstances of an arrangement support that the fee for the arrangement is considered to be fixed or determinable and that collectibility of the fee is probable, and these judgments can affect the amount of revenue that we recognize in a particular reporting period. For installment contracts that do not include a substantial upfront payment, we consider a fee to be fixed or determinable only if the arrangement has payment periods that are less than or equal to the term of the licenses and the payments are collected in equal or nearly equal installments, when evaluated over the entire term of the arrangement. If we no longer were to have a history of collecting under the original contract without providing concessions on term licenses, revenue from term licenses would be required to be recognized when payments under the installment contract become due and payable. Such a change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We must also make judgments when assessing whether a contract amendment to a term arrangement (primarily in the context of a license extension or renewal) constitutes a concession. We have established a history of collecting under contracts for which the fee has been assessed as fixed or determinable, without providing concessions on payments, products or services. Generally, we are able to estimate whether collection is probable, but significant judgment is applied as we assess the creditworthiness of our customers to make this determination. Key external and internal factors are considered in developing our creditworthiness assessment, including public information, historical and current financial statements and past collection history. If our experience were to change, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If, in our judgment, collection of a fee is not probable, we do not record revenue until the uncertainty is removed, which is generally upon receipt of cash payment. In general, revenue associated with term and subscription licenses is recognized ratably over the term of the license, commencing upon the later of the effective date of the arrangement or delivery of the first software product. In general, product revenue associated with perpetual licenses where vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, exists for the undelivered maintenance is recognized up front, upon the later of the effective date of the arrangement or delivery of the software product, provided all other conditions for revenue recognition have been met, and maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the maintenance term. A relatively small percentage of our revenue from software licenses is recognized on an upfront basis. Our hardware products generally include the hardware product and its related essential software, and maintenance for the hardware and the essential software. Consideration allocated to the hardware product and the essential software is recognized as revenue at the time of delivery, provided all other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Consideration allocated to the maintenance is recognized ratably over the maintenance term. Revenue from customized IP services is recognized either on the time and materials method, as work is performed, or on the percentage-of-completion method. If a service contract is considered to be part of a multiple element arrangement, or MEA, that includes a software contract, revenue is generally recognized ratably over the duration of the software contract. For contracts with fixed or not-to-exceed fees, we estimate on a monthly basis the percentage of completion based on the completion of milestones relating to the arrangement. We have a history of accurately estimating project status and the costs necessary to complete projects. A number of internal and external factors can affect our estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances, and specification and testing requirement changes. If different conditions were to prevail such that accurate estimates could not be made, then the use of the completed contract method would be required and the recognition of all revenue and costs would be deferred until the project was completed. Such a change could have a material impact on our results of operations. If a group of contracts is so closely related that they are, in effect, part of a single arrangement, such arrangements are deemed to be an MEA. We exercise significant judgment to evaluate the relevant facts and circumstances in determining whether the separate contracts should be accounted for individually as distinct arrangements or whether the separate contracts are, in substance, an MEA. Our judgments about whether a group of contracts is an MEA can affect the timing of revenue recognition under those contracts, which could have an effect on our results of operations for the periods involved. For example, a perpetual license agreement that would otherwise result in upfront revenue upon delivery may be deemed part of an MEA when it is executed within close proximity, or in contemplation of, other license agreements that require ratable revenue recognition with the same customer, in which event all the revenue is recognized over the longest term of any component of the MEA instead of up front. 29 Table of Contents For an MEA that includes software and nonsoftware elements, we allocate consideration to all software elements as a group and all nonsoftware elements based on their relative standalone selling prices. Revenue allocated to each deliverable is then recognized when all four criteria are met. In these circumstances, there is a hierarchy to determine the standalone selling price to be used for allocating consideration to the deliverables as follows: Vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value, or VSOE; Third-party evidence of selling price, or TPE; and Best estimate of the selling price, or BESP. We calculate the BESP of our hardware products based on our pricing practices, including the historical average prices charged for comparable hardware products, because VSOE or TPE cannot be established. Our process for determining BESP for our software deliverables without VSOE or TPE takes into account multiple factors that vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. Key external and internal factors considered in developing the BESPs include prices charged by us for similar arrangements, historical pricing practices and the nature of the product. In addition, when developing BESPs, we may consider other factors as appropriate, including the pricing of competitive alternatives if they exist, and product-specific business objectives. We exercise significant judgment to evaluate the relevant facts and circumstances in calculating the BESP of the deliverables in our arrangements. Business Combinations When we acquire businesses, we allocate the purchase price to the acquired tangible assets and assumed liabilities, including deferred revenue, liabilities associated with the fair value of contingent consideration and acquired identifiable intangible assets. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price requires us to make significant estimates in determining the fair values of these acquired assets and assumed liabilities, especially with respect to intangible assets and goodwill. These estimates are based on information obtained from management of the acquired companies, our assessment of this information, and historical experience. These estimates can include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an acquired business is expected to generate in the future, the cash flows that specific assets acquired with that business are expected to generate in the future, the appropriate weighted-average cost of capital, and the cost savings expected to be derived from acquiring an asset. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable, and if different estimates were used, the purchase price for the acquisition could be allocated to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities differently from the allocation that we have made to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates, and if such events occur, we may be required to adjust the value allocated to acquired assets or assumed liabilities. We also make significant judgments and estimates when we assign useful lives to the definite-lived intangible assets identified as part of our acquisitions. These estimates are inherently uncertain and if we used different estimates, the useful life over which we amortize intangible assets would be different. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may impact the useful life assigned to our intangible assets, which would impact our amortization of intangible assets expense and our results of operations. Fair Value of Financial Instruments On a quarterly basis, we measure at fair value certain financial assets and liabilities. Inputs to valuation techniques are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our market assumptions. While we believe the observable and unobservable inputs we use to measure the fair value are reasonable, different inputs or estimates may materially impact the resulting fair value measurements of these instruments and may also impact our results of operations. For an additional description of our fair value measurements, see Note 8 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations Financial results for fiscal 2014 , as compared to fiscal 2013 and 2012 , reflect the following: increased product and maintenance revenue, primarily because of increased business levels, incremental revenue from our acquisitions and an additional week of operations in fiscal 2014; increased product and maintenance related costs consisting of costs associated with our emulation hardware, which experienced lower margins due to an increasingly competitive environment, and amortization of technology-related and maintenance-related acquired intangibles; increased employee-related costs, primarily consisting of costs related to hiring additional employees, incremental costs related to employees added from our fiscal 2014 and 2013 acquisitions, and an additional week of operations in fiscal 2014; increased stock-based compensation; increased amortization of acquired intangibles resulting from acquisitions; restructuring charges due to restructuring activities during fiscal 2014 and 2013; and severance and other termination costs primarily associated with a voluntary early retirement program we offered to certain of our employees during fiscal 2014. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal 2014 was a 53-week year compared to fiscal 2013 and 2012, which were 52-week years. As noted above, revenue and expenses included in the results of operations for fiscal 2014 were impacted by the additional week. Revenue We primarily generate revenue from licensing our software and IP, selling or leasing our emulation hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software, emulation hardware and IP, providing engineering services and earning royalties generated from the use of our IP. The timing of our revenue is significantly affected by the mix of software, emulation hardware and IP products in the bookings executed in any given period and whether the revenue for such bookings is recognized in a recurring manner over multiple periods or up front, upon completion of delivery. We seek to achieve a consistent revenue mix such that approximately 90% of our revenue is recurring in nature, and the remainder of the resulting revenue is recognized up front, upon completion of delivery. Recurring revenue includes revenue from our license arrangements where revenue is recognized over multiple periods, services, royalties from certain IP arrangements, maintenance on perpetual software licenses and emulation hardware, and our operating leases of emulation hardware. Upfront revenue is primarily generated by our sales of emulation hardware and perpetual software licenses. Our ability to achieve this mix in any single fiscal period may be impacted primarily by hardware sales. For an additional description of our current product strategy, see the discussion under the heading Products and Product Strategy under Part I, Item 1, Business. Approximately 90% of the aggregate value of our revenue during fiscal 2014 , 2013 and 2012 was of a type for which the revenue is recurring in nature. We believe our reported revenue and the amount of revenue recognized in future periods will depend on, among other things, the: competitiveness of our technology; and size, duration, timing, terms and type of: contract renewals with existing customers; additional sales to existing customers; and sales to new customers. 31 Table of Contents Revenue by Year The following table shows our revenue for fiscal 2014 , 2013 and 2012 and the change in revenue between years: Change 2014 2013 2012 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (In millions, except percentages) Product and maintenance $ 1,479.2 $ 1,357.9 $ 1,212.4 $ 121.3 9 % $ 145.5 12 % Services 101.8 102.2 114.0 (0.4 ) % (11.8 ) (10 )% Total revenue $ 1,581.0 $ 1,460.1 $ 1,326.4 $ 120.9 8 % $ 133.7 10 % Product and maintenance revenue increased during fiscal 2014 , as compared to fiscal 2013 , and during fiscal 2013 , as compared to fiscal 2012 , primarily because of increased business levels, incremental revenue recognized from our acquisitions and an additional week of operations in fiscal 2014. The additional week of operations contributed approximately $15.0 million of revenue to fiscal 2014. Services revenue remained relatively constant during fiscal 2014, as compared to fiscal 2013, but decreased during fiscal 2013, as compared to fiscal 2012, primarily because of the redeployment of certain of our design services engineers to internal research and development projects related to our design IP activities. Services revenue may fluctuate from period to period based on demand for, and our resources to fulfill, our services and customized IP offerings. No one customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue during fiscal 2014 , 2013 or 2012 . Revenue by Product Group The following table shows the percentage of product and related maintenance revenue contributed by each of our five product groups and services during fiscal 2014 , 2013 and 2012 : 2014 2013 2012 Functional Verification, including Emulation Hardware 22 % 23 % 26 % Digital IC Design and Signoff 29 % 30 % 32 % Custom IC Design 27 % 27 % 26 % System Interconnect and Analysis 11 % 11 % 9 % IP 11 % 9 % 7 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % As described in Note 2 in the notes to consolidated financial statements, certain of our licensing arrangements allow customers the ability to remix among software products. Additionally, we have arrangements with customers that include a combination of our products, with the actual product selection and number of licensed users to be determined at a later date. For these arrangements, we estimate the allocation of the revenue to product groups based upon the expected usage of our products. The actual usage of our products by these customers may differ and, if that proves to be the case, the revenue allocation in the table above would differ. Revenue by Geography Change 2014 2013 2012 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (In millions, except percentages) United States $ 696.6 $ 648.7 $ 567.6 $ 47.9 7 % $ 81.1 14 % Other Americas 23.4 22.9 23.0 0.5 2 % (0.1) % Asia 360.3 289.1 254.7 71.2 25 % 34.4 14 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 328.7 303.6 262.4 25.1 8 % 41.2 16 % Japan 172.0 195.8 218.7 (23.8 ) (12 )% (22.9 ) (10 )% Total revenue $ 1,581.0 $ 1,460.1 $ 1,326.4 $ 120.9 8 % $ 133.7 10 % 32 Table of Contents Most of our revenue is transacted in the United States dollar. However, certain revenue transactions are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen. We recognize reduced revenue from those contracts in periods when the Japanese yen weakens in value against the United States dollar and additional revenue from those contracts in periods when the Japanese yen strengthens against the United States dollar. For an additional description of how changes in foreign exchange rates affect our consolidated financial statements, see the discussion in Item 7A,