Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or this Quarterly Report, and in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2011. Certain of these statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding the extent and timing of future revenues and expenses and customer demand, statements regarding the deployment of our products, statements regarding our reliance on third parties and other statements using words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, forecasts, intends, may, plans, projects, should, will and would, and words of similar import and the negatives thereof, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are predictions based upon our current expectations about future events. Actual results could vary materially as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, those expressed in these statements. We refer you to the Risk Factors, Results of Operations, Disclosures About Market Risk, and Liquidity and Capital Resources sections contained in this Quarterly Report, and the risks discussed in our other Securities Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings, which identify important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. Overview We develop electronic design automation, or EDA, software, hardware, and design intellectual property, or IP. We license software and design IP, sell or lease hardware technology, provide maintenance for our software, design IP and hardware and provide engineering and education services throughout the world to help manage and accelerate product development processes for electronics. Our customers use our products and services to design and develop complex integrated circuits, or ICs, and electronics systems. We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software and design IP, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our products and providing engineering services. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from IC and electronics systems manufacturers and designers and is dependent upon their commencement of new design projects. As a result, our revenue is significantly influenced by our customers business outlook and investment in the introduction of new products and the improvement of existing products. In 2010, the semiconductor industry grew significantly as global economic conditions improved and consumer demand for electronic products improved as a result. While the EDA industry benefited from this improved environment, EDA customers remained cautious about making substantial new EDA expenditures. The semiconductor industry is forecasted to grow modestly for the remainder of 2011, and we believe that spending on EDA offerings may also grow modestly as customers invest in new projects. Electronics companies demand ever higher levels of productivity from their design teams, better predictability in their development schedules and higher quality products in order to be competitive and profitable in the price-conscious markets they serve. Electronics companies are responding to demand for increased functionality and miniaturization by combining subsystems such as radio frequency, or RF, 31 Table of Contents wireless communication, video signal processing and microprocessors onto a single silicon chip, creating a system-on-chip, or SoC, or multiple chips into a single chip package in a format referred to as system-in-package, or SiP. These trends toward subsystem integration have required chip makers to find solutions to challenges previously addressed by system companies, such as verifying system-level functionality and hardware-software interoperability. Our offerings address many of the challenges associated with developing unique silicon circuitry, integrating original circuitry with design IP developed by third parties to create SoCs, and combining ICs and SoCs with software to create electronic systems. Our strategy is to provide our customers with the ability to address the broad range of issues that arise at the silicon, SoC, and system levels. In 2010, we published our vision for the industry, called EDA360, which describes in detail the challenges and opportunities in EDA. The most significant issues that our customers face in creating their products include optimizing energy consumption, manufacturing microscopic circuitry, verifying device functionality, and achieving technical performance targets, all while meeting aggressive cost requirements. These issues are becoming more complex as requirements for performance, size, cost, and features evolve across the full spectrum of electronics products, such as smart phones, tablets, televisions, communications and internet infrastructure, and computing platforms. Providers of EDA solutions must deliver products that address these technical challenges while improving the productivity, predictability, reliability and profitability of the design processes and products of their customers. We combine our products and technologies into platforms for four major design activities: Functional Verification and Design IP; Digital IC Design and Implementation; Custom IC Design and Verification; and System Interconnect Design. The four Cadence design platforms are branded as Incisive functional verification, Encounter digital IC design, Virtuoso custom design and Allegro system interconnect design. In addition, we augment these platform product offerings with a set of design for manufacturing, or DFM, products that service both the digital and custom IC design flows. Our functional verification offerings include both design IP and verification IP. The products and technologies that comprise our platforms are combined with services, ready-to-use packages of technologies assembled from our broad portfolio and other associated components that provide comprehensive solutions for low power, mixed signal, enterprise verification and advanced node designs. These solutions and their constituent elements are marketed to users who specialize in areas such as system design and verification, functional verification, logic design, digital implementation, custom IC design and printed circuit board, or PCB, and IC package and SiP design. We have identified certain items that management uses as performance indicators to manage our business, including revenue, certain elements of operating expenses and cash flow from operations, and we describe these items further below under the heading Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources. Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income (loss) and net income, as 32 Table of Contents well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. At least quarterly, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates and make changes accordingly. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results. For further information about our critical accounting estimates, see the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2011. On January 2, 2011, we adopted new accounting standards prospectively for multiple element arrangements, or MEAs, and for revenue arrangements that include both hardware and software elements. As such, additional assumptions, judgments and estimates are now required in the accounting for revenue recognition, which are described below. Revenue Recognition We begin to recognize revenue from licensing and supporting our software, IP and hardware products when all of the following criteria are met: We have persuasive evidence of an arrangement with a customer; Delivery of all specified products has occurred; The fee for the arrangement is considered to be fixed or determinable, at the outset of the arrangement; and Collectibility of the fee is probable. Significant judgment is involved in the determination of whether the facts and circumstances of an arrangement support that the fee for the arrangement is considered to be fixed or determinable and that collectibility of the fee is probable, and these judgments can affect the amount of revenue that we recognize in a particular reporting period. We must also make these judgments when assessing whether a contract amendment to a term arrangement (primarily in the context of a license extension or renewal) constitutes a concession. Our experience has been that we are able to determine whether a fee is fixed or determinable for term licenses and we have established a history of collecting under the original contract without providing concessions on payments, products or services. For installment contracts that do not include a substantial up-front payment, we consider that a fee is fixed or determinable only if the arrangement has payment periods that are equal to or less than the term of the licenses and the payments are collected in equal or nearly equal installments, when evaluated over the entire term of the arrangement. While we do not expect our experience to change, if we no longer were to have a history of collecting under the original contract without providing concessions on term licenses, revenue from term licenses would be required to be recognized when payments under the installment contract become due and payable. Such a change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our experience has been that we are generally able to estimate whether collection is probable. Significant judgment is applied as we assess the creditworthiness of our customers to make this determination. If our experience were to change, such a change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If, in our judgment, collection of a fee is not probable, we defer the revenue until the uncertainty is removed, which generally means revenue is recognized upon receipt of cash payment from the customer. 33 Table of Contents An MEA is any arrangement that includes or contemplates rights to a combination of software or hardware products, software license types, services, training or maintenance in a single arrangement. From time to time, we may include individual deliverables in separately priced and separately executed contracts with the same customer. We evaluate all relevant facts and circumstances in determining whether the separate contracts should be accounted for individually as distinct arrangements or whether the separate contracts are, in substance, an MEA. Significant judgment can be involved in determining whether a group of contracts might be so closely related that they are, in effect, part of a single arrangement. For a single transaction or MEA that includes software and nonsoftware elements, we allocate consideration to all deliverables based on their relative standalone selling prices. In these circumstances, there is a hierarchy to determine the standalone selling price to be used for allocating consideration to deliverables as follows: Vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value, or VSOE; Third-party evidence of selling price, or TPE; and Best estimate of the selling price, or ESP. For MEAs that contain software and nonsoftware elements, we allocate the consideration to software or software-related elements as a group, and to any nonsoftware element separately based on the standalone selling price hierarchy. The consideration allocated to each element is then recognized as revenue when the basic revenue recognition criteria are met for each element. Once the consideration is allocated to the group of software and software-related elements, it then follows the recognition principles of pre-existing software accounting guidance. We have established VSOE for certain service offerings based upon the pricing of these elements when sold separately. VSOE for maintenance is based upon the customers stated annual renewal rate. We have not established VSOE for any of our products, for annual maintenance that is not cancellable by the customer, or for maintenance of less than 12 months. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. Generally, our offerings contain significant differentiation such that comparable pricing of products with similar functionality cannot be obtained. Furthermore, we are unable to reliably determine the selling prices for similar competitor products on a stand-alone basis. Therefore, we typically are not able to obtain TPE and it is not used to determine any standalone selling prices. We calculate the ESP of our hardware products based on our pricing practices, including the historical average prices charged for comparable hardware products. Our process for determining ESP for our software deliverables without VSOE or TPE takes into account multiple factors that vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. Key external and internal factors considered in developing the ESPs include, but are not limited to, prices charged by us for similar arrangements, historical pricing practices and the nature of the product. In addition, when developing ESPs, we may consider other factors as appropriate, including the pricing of competitive alternatives if they exist, and product-specific business objectives. We generally have a minimum of two deliverables contained in arrangements involving the sale of our hardware. The first deliverable is the hardware product and software essential to the functionality of the hardware product delivered at the time of sale, and the second deliverable is the right to receive maintenance on the hardware product and the hardware products essential software. We allocate consideration between these deliverables based on the relative standalone selling price for each deliverable. Consideration allocated to the hardware product and the related essential software are recognized as revenue at the time of delivery 34 Table of Contents provided all other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Consideration allocated to the maintenance is deferred and recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the respective maintenance terms. We account for MEAs that consist only of software or software-related products in accordance with industry-specific accounting guidance for software and software-related transactions. If VSOE of all undelivered elements exists, the consideration is allocated using the residual method. Under the residual method, the consideration allocated to the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is recognized up-front as the software products are delivered. If VSOE does not exist for all elements to support the allocation of the total fee among all elements of the arrangement, or if VSOE does not exist for all undelivered elements to apply the residual method, revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the undelivered elements. For our subscription licenses, including our eDA Platinum Cards, the software license agreements typically combine the right to use specified software products, the right to maintenance, and the right to receive and use for no additional fee unspecified future software products, when and if available, during the term of the license agreement. Under these license agreements, when all four of the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are met, we recognize revenue ratably over the term of the license agreement beginning with delivery of the products. Subscription license revenue is allocated to product and maintenance revenue. The allocation to maintenance revenue is based on the average substantive renewal rates included in the sale of similar term license arrangements. In the event that the license fee for this type of arrangement is not considered to be fixed or determinable at the outset of the arrangement, we recognize revenue at the lesser of (i) the pro-rata portion of the license fee for the applicable period, or (ii) as payments from the customer become due (if all other conditions for revenue recognition have been satisfied). For term and perpetual licenses that include a stated annual maintenance renewal rate, including our eDA Gold Cards, software license fees are recognized as up-front revenue when all four of the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are met, generally upon delivery, and the maintenance fees are recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance period. Under our current business model, a relatively small percentage of our revenue from software licenses is recognized on an up-front basis. License agreements under which license fees are recognized up-front do not include the right to receive unspecified future products. However, when such license agreements are executed with the same customer within close proximity or in contemplation of other license agreements that require ratable revenue recognition, the licenses together may be deemed an MEA, in which event all such revenue is recognized over multiple periods. Revenue from services contracts is recognized either on the time and materials method, as work is performed, or on the percentage-of-completion method. For contracts with fixed or not-to-exceed fees, we estimate on a monthly basis the percentage of completion based on the completion of milestones relating to the arrangement. We have a history of accurately estimating project status and the costs necessary to complete projects. A number of internal and external factors can affect our estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances, and specification and testing requirement changes. If different conditions were to prevail such that accurate estimates could not be made, then the use of the completed contract method would be required and the recognition of all revenue and costs would be deferred until the project was completed. Such a change could have a material impact on our results of operations. 35 Table of Contents Results of Operations Financial results for the three and six months ended July 2, 2011, as compared to the three and six months ended July 3, 2010, reflect the following: An increase in revenue because of: Higher business levels due to the timing of contract renewals with existing customers; Increased revenue recognized from bookings in prior quarters from our continuing transition to a ratable license mix and a decrease in the average contract duration; Increases in the sale and lease of our hardware products; and Our acquisition of Denali in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. An increase in employee-related costs for commissions and other employee incentive compensation primarily resulting from improving business levels during the three and six months ended July 2, 2011, as compared to the three and six months ended July 3, 2010, partially offset by decreased costs as a result of our prior year restructuring plans; An increase in the cost of hardware products sold due to increases in the sale and lease of our hardware products; An increase in operating expenses, primarily research and development, related to the acquisition of Denali; and The increase in deferred tax liabilities from the intangible assets acquired with Denali and the resulting benefit for income taxes because of the release of valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets during the three months ended July 3, 2010. Revenue We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software and design IP, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software, design IP and hardware and providing engineering services. We principally use three license types: subscription, term and perpetual. The different license types provide a customer with different conditions of use for our products, such as: The right to access new technology; The duration of the license; and Payment timing. The timing of our product revenue is significantly affected by the mix of orders executed in any given period. For some orders, such as subscription orders, product and maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over multiple periods. In addition, depending on the individual facts and circumstances of a particular order, we have some orders for which product and maintenance revenue is recognized as payments become due and some for which revenue is only recognized when payment is received. For other orders, all product revenue is recognized up-front in the same quarter in which the order is executed. We seek to achieve a mix of bookings with approximately 90% of the aggregate value of our bookings of a type for which the revenue is recurring, or ratable, in nature, and approximately 10% of the resulting revenue recognized up-front, upon completion of delivery. Our ability to achieve this 90% to 10% ratio of ratable to up-front may be impacted by an increase in hardware sales beyond our current expectations. For an additional description of the impact of hardware sales on the anticipated mix of bookings, see the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition above, and Note 3 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. During the three and six months ended July 2, 2011, and July 3, 2010, over 90% of the aggregate value of our bookings was of a type for which the revenue is recurring, or ratable, in nature. 36 Table of Contents Customer decisions regarding these aspects of license transactions determine the license type, timing of revenue recognition and potential future business activity. For example, if a customer chooses a fixed duration of use, this will result in either a subscription or term license. A business implication of this decision is that, at the expiration of the license period, the customer must decide whether to continue using the technology and therefore renew the license agreement. Historically, larger customers generally have used products from two or more of our five product groups and rarely completely terminated their relationship with us upon expiration of the license. See the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition above for an additional description of license types and timing of revenue recognition. Although we believe that pricing volatility has not generally been a material component of the change in our revenue from period to period, we believe that the amount of revenue recognized in future periods will depend on, among other things, the: Competitiveness of our new technology; Timing of contract renewals with existing customers; Length of our sales cycle; and Size, duration, terms and type of: Contract renewals with existing customers; Additional sales to existing customers; and Sales to new customers. The value and renewal of contracts, and consequently product revenue recognized, are affected by the competitiveness of our products. Product revenue recognized in any period is also affected by the extent to which customers purchase subscription, term or perpetual licenses, and by the extent to which contracts contain flexible payment terms. Revenue by Period The following table shows our revenue for the three and six months ended July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010 and the change in revenue between periods: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended July 2, July 3, July 2, July 3, 2011 2010 Change 2011 2010 Change (In millions) Product $ 157.9 $ 117.1 $ 40.8 $ 299.8 $ 219.8 $ 80.0 Services 29.5 25.3 4.2 57.3 51.2 6.1 Maintenance 95.9 84.7 11.2 192.3 178.0 14.3 Total revenue $ 283.3 $ 227.1 $ 56.2 $ 549.4 $ 449.0 $ 100.4 Product revenue increased during the three and six months ended July 2, 2011, as compared to the three and six months ended July 3, 2010, primarily because of higher business levels due to the timing of contract renewals with existing customers, increased revenue recognized from bookings in prior quarters from our continuing transition to a ratable license mix and a decrease in the average contract duration, an increase in revenue related to the sale and lease of our hardware products and an increase in revenue due to our acquisition of Denali in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. 37 Table of Contents Services revenue increased during the three and six months ended July 2, 2011, as compared to the three and six months ended July 3, 2010, primarily because of cash collections from customers for which revenue is recognized upon receipt of cash payment and higher utilization rates for our services personnel. We adopted new revenue recognition accounting standards on the first day of fiscal 2011 for revenue arrangements that include both hardware and software elements. If we had accounted for arrangements entered into on or after January 2, 2011 under the pre-existing accounting standards, revenue for the three months ended July 2, 2011 would have been $3.1 million more than reported and revenue for the six months ended July 2, 2011 would have been $2.1 million less than reported. See Note 3 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for an additional description of our adoption of these accounting standards. Revenue by Product Group The following table shows the percentage of product and related maintenance revenue contributed by each of our five product groups, and Services and other for the past five consecutive quarters: Three Months Ended July 2, April 2, January 1, October 2, July 3, 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 Functional Verification and Design IP 33 % 28 % 22 % 25 % 26 % Digital IC Design 21 % 24 % 26 % 23 % 21 % Custom IC Design 22 % 20 % 27 % 24 % 26 % System Interconnect 8 % 10 % 8 % 10 % 10 % Design for Manufacturing 6 % 8 % 7 % 8 % 6 % Services and other 10 % 10 % 10 % 10 % 11 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % As described in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2011, certain of our licensing arrangements allow customers the ability to remix among software products. Additionally, we have arrangements with customers that include a combination of our products with the actual product selection and number of licensed users to be determined at a later date. For these arrangements, we estimate the allocation of the revenue to product groups based upon the expected usage of our products. The actual usage of our products by these customers may differ and, if that proves to be the case, the revenue allocation in the table above would differ. The increase in the percentage of revenue contributed by the Functional Verification product group during the three months ended July 2, 2011, as compared to the three months ended April 2, 2011, is due to an increase in revenue related to the sale and lease of our hardware products during the three months ended July 2, 2011. Although we believe the methodology of allocating revenue to product groups is reasonable, there can be no assurance that such allocated amounts reflect the amounts that would result if the customer had individually licensed each specific software solution at the onset of the arrangement. 38 Table of Contents Revenue by Geography Three Months Ended Six Months Ended July 2, July 3, July 2, July 3, 2011 2010 Change 2011 2010 Change (In millions) United States $ 124.2 $ 94.7 $ 29.5 $ 236.2 $ 177.3 $ 58.9 Other Americas 8.2 8.4 (0.2 ) 13.3 13.5 (0.2 ) Europe, Middle East and Africa 56.5 52.9 3.6 112.8 102.1 10.7 Japan 49.2 31.8 17.4 99.4 82.9 16.5 Asia 45.2 39.3 5.9 87.7 73.2 14.5 Total revenue $ 283.3 $ 227.1 $ 56.2 $ 549.4 $ 449.0 $ 100.4 The increase in revenue in the United States and Japan is primarily due to higher business levels due to the timing of contract renewals with existing customers in the United States and Japan, increased revenue recognized from bookings in prior quarters from our continuing transition to a ratable license mix, an increase in revenue related to the sale and lease of our hardware products and an increase in revenue due to our acquisition of Denali in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. The increase in revenue in Asia is primarily due to the economic growth in the region, resulting in increased business levels and cash collections. Revenue by Geography as a Percent of Total Revenue Three Months Ended Six Months Ended July 2, July 3, July 2, July 3, 2011 2010 2011 2010 United States 44 % 42 % 43 % 40 % Other Americas 3 % 4 % 2 % 3 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 20 % 23 % 21 % 23 % Japan 17 % 14 % 18 % 18 % Asia 16 % 17 % 16 % 16 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % No one customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue during the three and six months ended July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010. Most of our revenue is transacted in the United States dollar. However, certain revenue transactions are in foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, and we recognize additional revenue in periods when the United States dollar weakens in value against the Japanese yen and reduced revenue in periods when the United States dollar strengthens against the Japanese yen. For an additional description of how changes in foreign exchange rates affect our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, see the discussion under the heading