Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or this Quarterly Report, and in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 . This Quarterly Report contains statements that are not historical in nature, are predictive, or that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or contain forward-looking statements. Statements including, but not limited to, statements regarding the extent and timing of future revenues and expenses and customer demand, statements regarding the deployment of our products, statements regarding our reliance on third parties and other statements using words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, forecasts, intends, may, plans, projects, should, will and would, and words of similar import and the negatives thereof, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are predictions based upon our current expectations about future events. Actual results could vary materially as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, those expressed in these statements. We refer you to the Risk Factors, Results of Operations, Disclosures About Market Risk, and Liquidity and Capital Resources sections contained in this Quarterly Report, and the risks discussed in our other Securities Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings, which identify important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. Overview We enable our customers to design electronic products. Our products and services are designed to give our customers a competitive edge in their development of electronic systems, integrated circuits, or ICs, electronic devices and increasingly sophisticated manufactured products, by optimizing performance, minimizing power consumption, shortening the time to bring their products to market and reducing their design, development and manufacturing costs. We offer software, hardware, services and reusable IC design blocks, which are commonly referred to as intellectual property, or IP. System Design Enablement, or SDE, is our overall strategy to provide the technologies necessary for our customers to develop a complete and functional electronic product. Our SDE strategy enables us to address the growing trends of electronic systems companies developing their own ICs as part of their end product systems, as well as semiconductor companies delivering greater portions of the systems into which their IC products are integrated. Demand for our products is driven by our customers investment in new designs and products. We combine our products and technologies into categories related to major design activities: Functional Verification, including Emulation and Prototyping Hardware; Digital IC Design and Signoff; Custom IC Design; System Interconnect and Analysis; and IP. For additional information about our products, see the discussion in Item 1, Business, under the heading Products and Product Strategy, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 . We have identified certain items that management uses as performance indicators to manage our business, including revenue, certain elements of operating expenses and cash flow from operations, and we describe these items further below under the headings Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources. Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income and net income, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. At least quarterly, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates, and make changes as deemed necessary. For further information about our critical accounting estimates, see the discussion in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 . 15 New Accounting Standards Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Revenue Recognition (Topic 605). Under Topic 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services and is recognized in an amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, Topic 606 requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The FASB has recently issued several amendments to the standard, including clarification on accounting for licenses of intellectual property and identifying performance obligations. Topic 606 will be effective for us beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Topic 606 permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented (full retrospective method), or modified retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application (the cumulative catch-up transition method). We currently anticipate adopting the standard using the cumulative catch-up transition method. While we continue to assess all potential impacts of Topic 606, we currently expect to continue to recognize revenue over time for our time-based software arrangements, which represents a significant percentage of our total revenue, because the multiple software licenses and related updates in our time-based arrangements constitute a single, combined performance obligation. The timing of revenue recognition for our hardware and professional services is expected to remain substantially unchanged. We currently believe the adoption of Topic 606 will impact our accounting for multiple element arrangements, or MEAs, that combine many software-related deliverables, which may include multiple software contracts with varying terms, IP licenses, and/or service elements. Topic 605 requires vendor-specific objective evidence, or VSOE, to recognize revenue separately for the different software elements. We have not established VSOE under Topic 605, thus the revenue related to these MEAs is generally recognized over time beginning with the delivery of the last specified deliverable and ending on the latest end date. Topic 606 requires us to separate the different software elements through the use of stand-alone selling prices and to recognize the revenue allocated to the different software elements as if those software elements had been sold on a standalone basis, either up front or over time. For example, we could have an MEA that includes three elements: (i) an element that is delivered up-front at contract execution, (ii) 12 months of maintenance for element (i), and (iii) an element with a 36-month term. Under Topic 605, the revenue for all three elements would all be recognized over the 36-month term. Under Topic 606, revenue will be allocated to each of the elements, or performance obligations, and the related revenue will be recognized as each performance obligation is fulfilled. In the example above with three performance obligations, amounts would be allocated to the up-front element, the maintenance element and the 36-month term element, and those revenue amounts would be recognized upon delivery of the up-front element, over the 12-month maintenance term and over the 36-month term, respectively. The allocation of revenue for each performance obligation noted above is determined based on the standalone selling price, or SSP, of each performance obligation. More judgment and estimates will be required under Topic 606 than are required under Topic 605, including estimating the SSP for each performance obligation identified within our contracts. We are currently performing analyses to determine the SSP for each of the performance obligations that have been identified. Topic 606 also requires the deferral of incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. This will require that we capitalize commission costs directly related to obtaining customer contracts, and we will amortize those costs over the life of the contract. Due to the broad scope and complexity associated with Topic 606, we are currently implementing systems and processes to assist in the adoption of this new accounting standard. Financial Instruments In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Financial Instruments, which will impact certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. The updated standard becomes effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect the updated standard will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 16 Leases In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, requiring, among other things, the recognition of lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets on the balance sheet by lessees for certain lease arrangements that are classified as operating leases under the previous standard. The updated standard becomes effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, with early adoption permitted, and requires the use of a modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements. We anticipate that the adoption of this standard will have a material effect on our consolidated balance sheets and may require changes to our systems and processes. We have not yet made any decision on the timing of adoption. Income Tax In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income taxes: Intra-entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory. The new guidance requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of an intra-entity asset transfer when the transfer occurs. For intra-entity transfers of inventory, the income tax effects will continue to be deferred until the inventory has been sold to a third party. The new standard becomes effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and early adoption is permitted. The new guidance must be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. We are currently evaluating the effects that the adoption of this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. We anticipate the potential for increased volatility in future effective tax rates from the adoption of this guidance. Business Combinations In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, Business Combinations: Clarifying the Definition of a Business, that revises the definition of a business as it relates to acquisitions, disposals, goodwill impairments and consolidations. The updated standard becomes effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect of adopting the new standard. Goodwill Impairment In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other: Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment, that eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. The new standard is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and early adoption is permitted. The new guidance must be applied on a prospective basis. We do not anticipate that the adoption of this standard will have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements or the related disclosures. Results of Operations Financial results for the three months ended April 1, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended April 2, 2016 , reflect the following: increased product and maintenance revenue, primarily because of growth in our software and IP business; and continued investment in research and development activities focused on creating and enhancing our products to maintain the pace of innovation required by our customers. Revenue We primarily generate revenue from licensing our software and IP, selling or leasing our emulation and prototyping hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software, hardware and IP, providing engineering services and earning royalties generated from the use of our IP. The timing of our revenue is significantly affected by the mix of software, hardware and IP products generating revenue in any given period and whether the revenue is recognized over multiple periods or up front, upon completion of delivery. Approximately 90% of our revenue is recognized over time, and the remainder of the resulting revenue is recognized up front, upon completion of delivery. Revenue recognized over time includes revenue from our time-based software arrangements, certain IP license arrangements where revenue is recognized over multiple periods, services, royalties from certain IP arrangements, maintenance on perpetual software licenses and hardware, and operating leases of hardware. Upfront revenue is primarily generated by our sales of emulation and prototyping hardware and perpetual software and certain IP licenses. Our ability to maintain this mix in any single fiscal period may be impacted primarily by delivery of hardware and IP products to our customers. 17 Revenue by Period The following table shows our revenue for the three months ended April 1, 2017 and April 2, 2016 and the change in revenue between periods: Three Months Ended Change April 1, 2017 April 2, 2016 Amount Percentage (In millions, except percentages) Product and maintenance $ 451.4 $ 411.8 $ 39.6 10 % Services 25.5 36.1 (10.6 ) (29 )% Total revenue $ 476.9 $ 447.9 $ 29.0 6 % Product and maintenance revenue may fluctuate from period to period and by geography based on demand for emulation hardware and IP offerings. Product and maintenance revenue increased during the three months ended April 1, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended April 2, 2016 , primarily because of growth in our software and IP business. Services revenue may fluctuate from period to period based on demand for, and our available resources to fulfill, our services and IP offerings. The decrease in services revenue during the three months ended April 1, 2017 , compared to the three months ended April 2, 2016 , was primarily due to the timing of incremental revenue recognized during the three months ended April 2, 2016 from a customer agreement at the completion of the contract when all specified deliverables were made available. No one customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue during the three months ended April 1, 2017 or April 2, 2016 . Revenue by Product Group The following table shows the percentage of product and related maintenance revenue contributed by each of our five product categories and services for the past five consecutive quarters: Three Months Ended April 2, 2016 July 2, 2016 October 1, 2016 December 31, 2016 April 1, 2017 Functional Verification, including Emulation and Prototyping Hardware 26 % 27 % 24 % 25 % 23 % Digital IC Design and Signoff 30 % 27 % 28 % 30 % 29 % Custom IC Design 25 % 26 % 27 % 25 % 26 % System Interconnect and Analysis 9 % 10 % 10 % 9 % 10 % IP 10 % 10 % 11 % 11 % 12 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Revenue by product group fluctuates from period to period based on demand for, and our resources to fulfill, our services, emulation hardware and IP offerings. As described in Note 2 in the notes to consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 , certain of our licensing arrangements allow customers the ability to remix among software products. Additionally, we have arrangements with customers that include a combination of our products, with the actual product selection and number of licensed users to be determined at a later date. For these arrangements, we estimate the allocation of the revenue to product groups based upon the expected usage of our products. The actual usage of our products by these customers may differ and, if that proves to be the case, the revenue allocation in the table above would differ. 18 Revenue by Geography Three Months Ended Change April 1, 2017 April 2, 2016 Amount Percentage (In millions, except percentages) United States $ 205.4 $ 210.0 $ (4.6 ) (2 )% Other Americas 7.8 9.2 (1.4 ) (15 )% Asia 122.4 99.2 23.2 23 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 98.3 85.5 12.8 15 % Japan 43.0 44.0 (1.0 ) (2 )% Total revenue $ 476.9 $ 447.9 $ 29.0 6 % Revenue by geography fluctuates from period to period based on demand for, and our resources to fulfill, our services, emulation hardware and IP offerings. Most of our revenue is transacted in the United States dollar. However, certain revenue transactions are denominated in foreign currencies. For an additional description of how changes in foreign exchange rates affect our condensed consolidated financial statements, see the discussion under Item 3,