Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or this Quarterly Report, and in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2010. Certain of these statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding the extent and timing of future revenues and expenses and customer demand, statements regarding the deployment of our products, statements regarding our reliance on third parties and other statements using words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, forecasts, intends, may, plans, projects, should, will and would, and words of similar import and the negatives thereof, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are predictions based upon our current expectations about future events. Actual results could vary materially as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, those expressed in these statements. We refer you to the Risk Factors, Results of Operations, Disclosures About Market Risk, and Liquidity and Capital Resources sections contained in this Quarterly Report, and the risks discussed in our other Securities Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings, which identify important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. Overview We develop electronic design automation, or EDA, software and hardware. We license software, sell or lease hardware technology, provide maintenance for our software and hardware and provide engineering and education services throughout the world to help manage and accelerate product development processes for electronics. Our customers use our products and services to design and develop complex ICs and electronics systems. We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software and hardware and providing engineering services. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from IC and electronics systems manufacturers and designers and is dependent upon their commencement of new design projects. As a result, our revenue is significantly influenced by our customers business outlook and investment in the introduction of new products and the improvement of existing products. During 2008 and 2009, the semiconductor industry suffered as the overall macroeconomic environment deteriorated. Electronics companies faced financial challenges in 2008 and 2009 because consumer spending on electronics was adversely affected by increased unemployment, and corporate spending was restrained by the tightened credit market and the economic downturn. During 2009, semiconductor unit volumes decreased and average selling prices declined. These factors affect how electronics companies address traditional challenges of cost, quality, innovation and time-to-market associated with highly complex electronics systems and IC product development. Although estimates project moderate growth for the semiconductor industry in 2010, we believe that increased spending on EDA and other tools may grow more slowly than the semiconductor industry as a whole in 2010. Facing uncertainty and cost pressures in their own businesses or otherwise as a result of the overall economic downturn, some of our customers are continuing to wait to purchase our products and to seek purchasing terms and conditions that are less favorable to us, including lower prices and shorter contract duration. As a result of this trend, we have experienced low business levels and net losses in recent years. To enable us to keep our focus on the value of our technology and to assist with customer demands, we are continuing our transition to a license mix that will provide our customers with greater flexibility and will result in a substantial portion of our revenue being recognized ratably. 17 Table of Contents Our customers may also experience adverse changes in their businesses and, as a result, may delay or default on their payment obligations, file for bankruptcy or modify or cancel plans to license our products. If our customers are not successful in generating sufficient cash or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us, although these obligations are generally not cancelable. Additionally, our customers may seek to renegotiate existing contractual commitments. Although we have not yet experienced a material level of defaults, any material payment default by our customers or significant reductions in existing contractual commitments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We plan operating expense levels primarily based on forecasted revenue levels. To offset some of the impact of the decrease in our revenue, we have implemented cost savings initiatives, including reducing headcount and related costs and reducing other discretionary spending. During fiscal 2009, we initiated a restructuring plan to improve our operating results and to align our cost structure with expected revenue. The 2009 Restructuring Plan, which we initiated during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and continued during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, was intended to decrease costs by reducing our workforce throughout the company by approximately 345 positions. We expect ongoing annual savings of approximately $30.0 million related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan activities initiated during the second quarter of fiscal 2009. We expect that substantially all of the estimated restructuring plan-related annual operating expense savings related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan activities that we initiated during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 will be offset by increased spending in connection with developing and enhancing our product technologies. Product performance and size specifications of the mobile and other consumer electronics markets are requiring electronic systems to be smaller, consume less power and provide multiple functions in one system-on-chip, or SoC, or system-in-package, or SiP. The design challenge is also becoming more complex with each new generation of electronics because providers of EDA solutions are required to deliver products that address these technical challenges and improve the efficiency and productivity of the design process in a price-conscious environment. With the addition of emerging nanometer design considerations to the already burgeoning set of traditional design tasks, complex SoC or IC design can no longer be accomplished using a collection of discrete design tools. What previously consisted of sequential design activities must be merged and accomplished nearly simultaneously without time-consuming data translation steps. We combine our design technologies into platforms addressing four major design activities: functional verification, digital IC design, custom IC design and system interconnect design. The four Cadence design platforms are branded as Incisive functional verification, Encounter digital IC design, Virtuoso custom design and Allegro system interconnect design. In addition, we augment these offerings with a set of design for manufacturing, or DFM, products that service both the digital and custom IC design flows. These four offerings, together with our DFM products, comprise our primary product lines. We have identified certain items that management uses as performance indicators to manage our business, including revenue, certain elements of operating expenses and cash flow from operations, and we describe these items further below under the heading Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources. Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income (loss) and net income (loss), as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. At least quarterly, we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates and make changes accordingly. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results. For further information about our critical accounting estimates, see the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2010. 18 Table of Contents Results of Operations Financial results for the three months ended April 3, 2010, as compared to the three months ended April 4, 2009, reflect the following: Increased revenue recognized because of higher software and hardware business levels due to the timing of contract renewals with existing customers and from contracts executed in prior quarters due to our continued transition to a ratable license mix, which began in the third quarter of fiscal 2008; A decrease in our bad debt expense; and Decreased costs throughout the company as a result of our restructuring plans and other expense reductions. Revenue We primarily generate revenue from licensing our EDA software, selling or leasing our hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software and hardware and providing engineering services. We principally utilize three license types: subscription, term and perpetual. The different license types provide a customer with different conditions of use for our products, such as: The right to access new technology; The duration of the license; and Payment timing. The timing of our product revenue is significantly affected by the mix of orders executed in any given period. For some orders, such as subscription orders, product and maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over multiple periods. In addition, depending on the individual facts and circumstances of a particular order, we have some orders for which product and maintenance revenue is recognized as payments become due and some for which revenue is only recognized when payment is received. For other orders, all product revenue is recognized up-front in the same quarter in which the order is executed. We seek to achieve a mix of orders with approximately 90% of the total value of all executed orders consisting of orders for which the revenue is recurring, or ratable in nature, with the balance of the orders made up of orders for which the product revenue is recognized up-front. During the three months ended April 3, 2010, approximately 90% of the total value of our executed orders was comprised of ratable revenue orders. During fiscal 2009, approximately 78% of our revenue came from orders in backlog as of January 3, 2009. We currently expect approximately 80% of our fiscal 2010 revenue to come from orders in backlog as of January 2, 2010. Customer decisions regarding these aspects of license transactions determine the license type, timing of revenue recognition and potential future business activity. For example, if a customer chooses a fixed duration of use, this will result in either a subscription or term license. A business implication of this decision is that, at the expiration of the license period, the customer must decide whether to continue using the technology and therefore renew the license agreement. Historically, larger customers generally used products from two or more of our five product groups and rarely completely terminated their relationship with us upon expiration of the license. See the discussion under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional descriptions of license types and timing of revenue recognition. Although we believe that pricing volatility has not generally been a material component of the change in our revenue from period to period, we believe that the amount of revenue recognized in future periods will depend on, among other things, the: Competitiveness of our new technology; Timing of contract renewals with existing customers; Length of our sales cycle; and Size, duration, terms and type of: Contract renewals with existing customers; Additional sales to existing customers; and Sales to new customers. 19 Table of Contents The value and duration of contracts, and consequently product revenue recognized, is affected by the competitiveness of our products. Product revenue recognized in any period is also affected by the extent to which customers purchase subscription, term or perpetual licenses, and the extent to which contracts contain flexible payment terms. Revenue Mix We analyze our software and hardware businesses by product group, combining revenues for both product and maintenance because of their interrelationship. We have formulated a design solution strategy that combines our design technologies in platforms, which are included in the various product groups described below. Functional Verification : Products in this group, including the Incisive functional verification platform, are used to verify that the high level, logical representation of an IC design is functionally correct. Digital IC Design : Products in this group, including the Encounter digital IC design platform, are used to accurately convert the high-level, logical representation of a digital IC into a detailed physical blueprint and then detailed design information showing how the IC will be physically implemented. This data is used for creation of the photomasks used to manufacture semiconductors. Custom IC Design : Our custom design products, including the Virtuoso custom design platform, are used for ICs that must be designed at the transistor level, including analog, RF, memory, high performance digital blocks and standard cell libraries. Detailed design information showing how an IC will be physically implemented is used for creation of the photomasks used to manufacture semiconductors. System Interconnect Design : This product group consists of our PCB and IC package design products, including the Allegro and OrCAD products. The Allegro system interconnect design platform enables consistent co-design of interconnects across ICs, IC packages and PCBs, while the OrCAD line focuses on cost-effective, entry-level PCB solutions. Design for Manufacturing : Included in this product group are our physical verification and analysis products. These products are used to analyze and verify that the physical blueprint of the IC has been constructed correctly and can be manufactured successfully. Our strategy includes focusing on integrating DFM awareness into our core design platforms of Encounter digital IC design and Virtuoso custom design. Revenue by Period The following table shows our revenue for the three months ended April 3, 2010 and April 4, 2009 and the change in revenue between periods: Three Months Ended April 3, April 4, 2010 2009 Change (In millions) Product $ 102.8 $ 87.5 $ 15.3 Services 25.9 29.2 (3.3 ) Maintenance 93.2 89.6 3.6 Total revenue $ 221.9 $ 206.3 $ 15.6 Product revenue increased during the three months ended April 3, 2010, as compared to the three months ended April 4, 2009, primarily because of higher business levels due to the timing of contract renewals with existing customers and from contracts executed in prior quarters due to our continued transition to a ratable license mix. 20 Table of Contents Revenue by Product Group The following table shows for the past five consecutive quarters the percentage of product and related maintenance revenue contributed by each of our five product groups, and Services and other: Three Months Ended April 3, January 2, October 3, July 4, April 4, 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 Functional Verification 22% 22% 21% 23% 20% Digital IC Design 21% 22% 19% 24% 19% Custom IC Design 27% 28% 28% 25% 26% System Interconnect 9% 11% 11% 10% 12% Design for Manufacturing 9% 7% 9% 5% 9% Services and other 12% 10% 12% 13% 14% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% As described under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2010, certain of our licenses allow customers the ability to remix among software products. Additionally, we have licensed a combination of our products to customers with the actual product selection and number of licensed users to be determined at a later date. For these arrangements, we estimate the allocation of the revenue to product groups based upon the expected usage of our products by these customers. The actual usage of our products by these customers may differ and, if that proves to be the case, the revenue allocation in the above table would differ. Although we believe the methodology of allocating revenue to product groups is reasonable, there can be no assurance that such allocated amounts reflect the amounts that would result if the customer had individually licensed each specific software solution at the outset of the arrangement. Revenue by Geography Three Months Ended April 3, April 4, 2010 2009 Change (In millions) United States $ 82.6 $ 82.0 $ 0.6 Other Americas 5.1 4.6 0.5 Europe, Middle East and Africa 49.2 48.7 0.5 Japan 51.1 39.2 11.9 Asia 33.9 31.8 2.1 Total revenue $ 221.9 $ 206.3 $ 15.6 The increase in revenue in Japan is primarily due to differences in the timing and size of the payments for existing arrangements in which we recognize revenue on a due and payable basis. 21 Table of Contents Revenue by Geography as a Percent of Total Revenue Three Months Ended April 3, April 4, 2010 2009 United States 37% 40% Other Americas 3% 2% Europe, Middle East and Africa 22% 24% Japan 23% 19% Asia 15% 15% Total revenue 100% 100% Most of our revenue is transacted in the United States dollar. However, certain revenue transactions are in foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, and we recognize additional revenue in periods when the United States dollar weakens in value against the Japanese yen and reduced revenue in periods when the United States dollar strengthens against the Japanese yen. For an additional description of how changes in foreign exchange rates affect our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, see the discussion under the heading