Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Technical Support and Maintenance Customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide our customers with technical support and maintenance to facilitate their use of our software, hardware and IP solutions. Our education services offerings can be customized and include training programs that are delivered online, through an app, or in a classroom setting. The content of these offerings ranges from the latest design techniques to methodologies for using the most recent features of our products. The primary focus of education services is to accelerate our customers path to productivity in the use of our products. Services We offer a number of services, including design services, services related to methodology, education and hosted design solutions. These services may be sold separately or sold and performed in conjunction with the license, sale or lease of our products. As necessary, specialized design services engineers are assigned to internal R&D projects associated with our design IP business. As part of our services offerings, we design advanced ICs, develop custom IP and help customers address design challenges. This enables us to target and accelerate the development of new software technology and products to satisfy current and future design requirements. 5 Table of Contents We offer engineering services to collaborate with our customers in the design of complex ICs and the implementation of key design capabilities, including low power design, IC packaging and board design, functional verification, digital implementation, analog/mixed-signal design and system-level design. The customers for these services primarily consist of semiconductor and systems companies developing products for the consumer, hyperscale computing, 5G communications, mobile, automotive, aerospace and defense, industrial and life science vertical sectors. These ICs range from digital SoCs and analog and RF designs to complex mixed-signal ICs. The Cadence Cloud portfolio, which consists of Cadence-managed and customer-managed cloud environments, continues to expand, with additional cloud-based and software as a service (SaaS) products, including cloud-based solutions for SD&A and functional verification. Contractual arrangements with customers for both environments are generally time-based, similar to the on-premises software license arrangements described above, and may include usage-based terms. In delivering methodology services, we leverage our experience and knowledge of design techniques, our products, leading practices and different design environments to enable improved productivity of our customers engineering teams. Depending on the customers projects and needs, we work with customers using outsourced, consultative and collaborative offerings. Third-Party Programs and Initiatives In addition to our products, many customers use design tools that are provided by other companies, as well as design IP available from alternative suppliers. We support the use of third-party design products and design IP through our Cadence Connections program and through our participation in industry groups such as the Silicon Integration Initiative and Accellera System Initiative. We actively contribute to the development and deployment of industry standards. Product and Maintenance and Services Revenue Revenue, and revenue as a percentage of total revenue, from our product and maintenance and services offerings for the last three fiscal years were as follows: 2024 2023 2022 (In millions, except percentages) Product and maintenance $ 4,213 91 % $ 3,834 94 % $ 3,340 94 % Services 428 9 % 256 6 % 222 6 % Total revenue $ 4,641 $ 4,090 $ 3,562 Recurring revenue includes revenue recognized over time from our software arrangements, services, royalties, maintenance on IP licenses and hardware, and operating leases of hardware. Recurring revenue also includes revenue recognized at varying points in time over the term of other arrangements with non-cancelable commitments, whereby the customer commits to a fixed dollar amount over a specified period of time that can be used to purchase from a list of products or services. These arrangements do not meet the definition of a revenue contract until the customer executes a separate selection form to identify the products and services that they are purchasing. Each separate selection form under the arrangement is treated as an individual contract and accounted for based on the respective performance obligations. The remainder of our revenue is recognized at a point in time and is characterized as up-front revenue. Up-front revenue is primarily generated by sales of hardware and individual IP licenses and certain software licenses. The percentage of our recurring and up-front revenue is impacted by delivery of hardware and IP products to our customers in any single fiscal period. For additional information and analysis on our revenue, including revenue by geography, see the discussion under Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For our fiscal 2024 results of operations and our financial position as of December 31, 2024, see Part IV, Item 15, Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. Remaining Performance Obligations Revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations represents the transaction price allocated to the performance obligations that are unsatisfied, or partially unsatisfied, which includes unearned revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. We have elected to exclude the potential future royalty receipts from the remaining performance obligations. Contracted but unsatisfied performance obligations were approximately $6.8 billion as of December 31, 2024, which included $0.5 billion of non-cancelable commitments from customers where actual product selection and quantities of specific products or services are to be determined by customers at a later date. We estimate our remaining performance obligations at a point in time. Actual amounts and timing of revenue recognition may differ from these estimates largely due to changes in actual installation and delivery dates, as well as contract renewals, modifications and terminations. As of December 31, 2024, we expected to recognize 54% of the contracted but unsatisfied performance obligations, excluding non-cancelable commitments, as revenue over the next 12 months, 42% over the next 13 to 36 months and the remainder thereafter. 6 Table of Contents Marketing and Sales We generally market our products and provide services to existing and prospective customers through a direct sales force consisting of salespeople and applications engineers. Applications engineers provide technical pre-sales and post-sales support for our products. Due to the complexity of many of our products and the system design process, the sales cycle is generally long, requiring up to six months or longer. During the sales cycle, our direct sales force generally provides technical presentations, product demonstrations and support for on-site customer evaluation of our solutions. We also promote our products and services through advertising, marketing automation, trade shows, public relations and the internet. We selectively utilize value-added resellers to broaden our reach and reduce cost of sales. Our OrCAD products and certain Allegro products are primarily marketed through these channels. With respect to international sales, we generally market and support our products and services through our subsidiaries. We also use a third-party distributor to license our products and services to certain customers in Japan. Research and Development Our future performance depends on our ability to innovate, commercialize newly developed solutions and enhance and maintain our current products. The primary areas of our R&D align with our product categories discussed above. We must continuously adapt our products to solve new or increased physics challenges that arise with each successive process node and address the increase in complexity that is introduced by the resulting much larger designs. We must also keep pace with our customers technical developments, satisfy industry standards and meet our customers increasingly demanding performance, productivity, quality and predictability requirements. Therefore, we expect to continue to make significant investments in R&D. Hardware Manufacturing and Software Distribution Our hardware, including all individual PCBs, custom ICs and FPGA-based prototyping components, is manufactured, assembled and tested by subcontractors before delivery to our customers. Software and documentation are primarily distributed to customers by secure electronic delivery. Proprietary Technology Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Many of our products include software or other IP licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new licenses or renew existing licenses for third-party software and other IP in the future. As part of performing engineering services for customers, our engineering services business uses certain software and other IP licensed from third parties, including that of our competitors. Governmental Regulations We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to our business and operations. These include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations related to trade controls, anti-corruption and anti-bribery, and data privacy and data protection and AI, as well as antitrust, competition, employment, income taxes and the environment. Trade We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions concerning the sale, shipment and transmission of our products and technology outside the United States and to foreign nationals, including tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, sanctions and other trade regulations. The Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) of the U.S. Department of Commerce maintains and frequently adds entities to the Entity List, which limits our ability to deliver products and services to these entities, some of which are our customers. BIS has issued restrictions concerning advanced node IC production in China and other countries and extended controls to additional technologies, including electronic computer-aided design software specially designed for the development of advanced node ICs, and issued export controls related to the Chinese semiconductor manufacturing, advanced computing, and supercomputer industries. These restrictions and any subsequent restrictions may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, either directly or by impacting our customers products, and restrict our ability to license or support our products to certain companies in China. Furthermore, increased restrictions on China exports may lead to regulatory retaliation by the Chinese government and possibly further escalate geopolitical tensions, and any such scenarios may adversely impact our business. The prospect of future export controls that are implemented in a similar manner may continue to have an ongoing impact on our business, results of operation, or financial conditions. Trade regulations limiting or banning sales into certain countries or to certain companies, including economic and financial sanctions and trade embargoes administered and enforced by the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), have impacted our ability to transact business in certain countries and with certain customers. Future trade regulations may also impact our ability to transact business with certain customers and in certain countries and may restrict certain non-U.S. person employees from performing their duties at Cadence without first obtaining appropriate authorization if their duties involve an export, reexport, or transfer of export-controlled technology. 7 Table of Contents Anti-corruption and anti-bribery We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions concerning anti-corruption and anti-bribery, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, which prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials and bribes to other persons. Data privacy and data protection We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions governing data privacy and data protection, including the EU/UK General Data Protection Regulation, which regulate our collection, handling and use of personal information. The laws and regulations to which we are subject are complex and may change or develop over time, sometimes with limited or no advance notice. Developments or other changes in laws or regulations or how they are interpreted or enforced have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our business and increase our compliance-related expenditures. Artificial intelligence The regulatory framework governing the use of AI, machine learning and automated decision-making technologies (AI Technologies) is rapidly evolving. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have introduced or are currently considering additional laws and regulations. Already, certain existing legal regimes (e.g., relating to data privacy) regulate certain aspects of AI Technologies, and new laws regulating AI Technologies have been enacted in China, the United States and the European Union. In the United States, the Trump administration has rescinded an executive order relating to AI Technologies that was previously implemented by the Biden administration and may continue to rescind other existing federal orders and/or administrative policies relating to AI Technologies, or may implement new executive orders and/or other rule-making relating to AI Technologies in the future. U.S. legislation is also advancing at the state level. For example, the California Privacy Protection Agency is currently in the process of finalizing regulations under the California Consumer Privacy Act regarding the use of automated decision-making. The EU Artificial Intelligence Act (the EU AI Act) applies to companies that develop, use and/or provide AI in the EU and depending on the AI use case - includes requirements around transparency, conformity assessments and monitoring, risk assessments, human oversight, security, accuracy, general purpose AI and foundation models, and fines for breach of up to 7% of worldwide annual turnover. Such additional regulations may impact our ability to develop, use and commercialize AI Technologies in the future. For additional information regarding risks related to laws and regulations, including existing restrictions imposed by BIS, as well as international relations, see Item 1A, Risk Factors. Competition We compete most frequently with Synopsys, Inc., Siemens EDA, and ANSYS, Inc., and also with numerous other tools providers, electronics device manufacturers with their own EDA capabilities, technical or computational software companies, electronics design and consulting companies and other IP companies. These include U.S. based companies such as Keysight Technologies, Inc., Schrdinger, Inc. and CEVA, Inc. and foreign companies such as Zuken Ltd. (Japan) and emerging competitors in China like Huada Empyrean, Xpeedic, X-EPIC, Primarius Technologies, Univista and Giga-DA. Some of our competitors have made or may make acquisitions and/or have entered or may enter into partnerships or other strategic relationships which may alter their ability to compete with us. Certain competitive factors in the engineering services business differ from those of the products businesses. While we compete with other computational software companies in the engineering services business, our principal competitors in this area include independent engineering service businesses. Many of these companies are also customers, and therefore use our product offerings in the delivery of their services or products. For more information on risks related to competitive factors affecting our business, see the relevant discussions throughout Item 1A, Risk Factors. Human Capital Resource Management Our people are at the center of our success and drive the innovations that are enabling next-generation technologies. Cadence technology is highly specialized and deeply technical and our team represents some of the best and brightest in their fields. Our One Team culture is central to employees experience and enables us to attract and retain top talent in our industry. We regularly invest in key initiatives including, but not limited to, furthering belonging, physical and mental health, and talent development. To measure engagement and collect feedback from our employees, we administer regular employee engagement surveys. Cadence leaders are tasked with creating and sustaining our culture and therefore, they are measured on their contributions to the attraction, development, engagement of high-caliber talent, and advancing our sustainability objectives. Employees As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately 12,700 employees. Our global workforce is highly educated, technical and specialized, with a substantial majority of employees working in engineering roles. 8 Table of Contents Compensation and Benefits To inspire and recognize our employees, we offer competitive compensation and benefits programs. Our compensation programs link employee compensation to our business and individual performance. We also offer a semi-annual bonus program, 401(k) match, Employee Stock Purchase Plan and equity compensation. In addition, our employees are eligible to receive monetary awards from their colleagues through our peer-to-peer recognition program. Talent Development To help employees succeed in their current roles, pursue their passions and develop the skills necessary for advancement, we provide formal training programs and curriculums in addition to on-the-job training. Our high performance culture platform provides our employees with valuable resources such as a comprehensive online Learning Management program with training and development tools on a broad range of topics and skills. We also offer tuition reimbursement opportunities to employees to further hone their skills. Social Impact and Community Outreach We believe it is important to create meaningful opportunities for employees to connect and contribute to their communities. We provide paid volunteer time off, charitable contribution matching, company-wide volunteer campaigns, international service immersion projects and grants to employees who are giving back to their communities. The Cadence Giving Foundation, established in 2021, is committed to providing Cadence employees and others a means through which to carry out their volunteer activities as well as making an impact on our focus areas of environmental sustainability and opportunities for all in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education. This is accomplished through various means, including grant making and partnerships with non-profit organizations committed to addressing these issues. We also make charitable contributions consisting of Cadence technology product donations. Corporate Responsibility We believe that, in general, the best and brightest talent is inclined to build a career with a responsible organization that positively impacts society. We are focused on doing our part to contribute to the health of the planet by actively investing in initiatives to reduce our environmental footprint. Corporate Information Our headquarters is located at 2655 Seely Avenue, San Jose, California 95134. Our telephone number is (408) 943-1234. We use our website at www.cadence.com to communicate important information about our company, including news releases and financial information. Our website permits investors to subscribe to email notification alerts when we post new material information on our website. We also make available on our investor relations webpage, free of charge, copies of our SEC filings and submissions, which can be found at the SECs website, www.sec.gov, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such documents with the SEC. Stockholders may also request copies of these documents by writing to our Corporate Secretary at the address above. Website references are provided throughout this document for convenience only. The contents of these websites do not constitute a part of this Annual Report and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report unless expressly noted. Fiscal Year End Historically, our fiscal years were 52- or 53-week periods ending on the Saturday closest to December 31. During fiscal 2022, our Board of Directors approved a change in our fiscal year end from the Saturday closest to December 31 of each year to December 31 of each year. The fiscal year change became effective beginning with our 2023 fiscal year, which began on January 1, 2023. Fiscal year 2022, which is included in this report for comparative purposes, represents a 52-week period. INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following table provides information regarding our executive officers as of February 20, 2025: Name Age Positions and Offices Anirudh Devgan 55 President and Chief Executive Officer John M. Wall 54 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Paul Cunningham 47 Senior Vice President and General Manager of the System Verification Group Karna Nisewaner 50 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Chin-Chi Teng 59 Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Digital and Signoff Group Paul Scannell 59 Senior Vice President of Worldwide Field Operations Our executive officers are appointed by our Board of Directors and serve at the discretion of our Board of Directors. 9 Table of Contents ANIRUDH DEVGAN has served as Chief Executive Officer of Cadence since December 2021 and President of Cadence since November 2017. From May 2012 to November 2017, Dr. Devgan held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Executive Vice President, Research and Development from March 2017 to November 2017 and Senior Vice President, Research and Development from November 2013 to March 2017. Prior to joining Cadence, from May 2005 to March 2012, Dr. Devgan served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the Custom Design Business Unit at Magma Design Automation, Inc., an EDA company. Dr. Devgan has a B.Tech. in electrical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, and an M.S. and Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering from Carnegie Mellon University. JOHN M. WALL has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cadence since October 2017. From June 1997 to October 2017, Mr. Wall held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President and Corporate Controller from April 2016 to October 2017, Vice President, Finance and Operations, Worldwide Revenue Accounting and Sales Finance from 2015 to 2016 and Vice President, Finance and Operations, EMEA and Worldwide Revenue Accounting from 2005 to 2015. Mr. Wall has an NCBS from the Institute of Technology, Tralee and is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. PAUL CUNNINGHAM has served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the System Verification Group of Cadence since March 2021. From August 2011 to March 2021, Dr. Cunningham held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President of the System Verification Group beginning January 2018. Prior to joining Cadence, Dr. Cunningham was co-founder and Chief Executive Officer of Azuro, Inc., a clock concurrent optimization company, that Cadence acquired in July 2011. Dr. Cunningham has an M.A. and Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Cambridge in the United Kingdom. KARNA NISEWANER has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Cadence since February 2024. From May 2011 to February 2024, Ms. Nisewaner held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary beginning in September 2022. Prior to joining Cadence, Ms. Nisewaner held in-house counsel roles at Intuit from 2007 to 2011 and IBM from 2003 to 2007. Ms. Nisewaner was in private practice focused on IP at Finnegan, Henderson, Farbow, Garrett, and Dunner, LLP from 2001 to 2003. Ms. Nisewaner has a B.S.E. in civil engineering and operations research from Princeton University and a J.D. from UCLA School of Law. CHIN-CHI TENG has served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Digital and Signoff Group of Cadence since September 2018. From January 2002 to September 2018, Dr. Teng held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President, Research and Development from June 2015 to September 2018, and Vice President, Research and Development from March 2009 to June 2015. Dr. Teng has a B.S. in electrical engineering from the National Taiwan University and a Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. PAUL SCANNELL has served as Senior Vice President of Worldwide Field Operations of Cadence since May 2024. From 2005 to April 2024, Mr. Scannell held several positions at Cadence, including most recently as Corporate Vice President, Sales from June 2017 to April 2024. Prior to joining Cadence in 2005 through Cadence's acquisition of Verisity Ltd., Mr. Scannell served in key positions at Axis Systems, Inc., Synopsys, Inc. and Viewlogic Systems, Inc. Mr. Scannell has a B.S. in electrical engineering from Stevens Institute of Technology, an M.S. in electrical engineering from University of Southern California and an M.B.A. from Pepperdine University. 10 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the sections below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, revenue, growth, prospects, demand for our products and services, reputation and the trading price of our common stock, and make an investment in us speculative or risky. The following does not summarize all of the risks that we face, and there may be additional risks or uncertainties that are currently unknown or not believed to be material that occur or become material. Risk Factors Summary Business and Operational Risks We have experienced varied operating results, and our operating results for any particular fiscal period are affected by the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our hardware, IP and certain software products. Uncertainty in the global economy and instability within international relations, including changes in governmental policies relating to technology, and any potential downturn in the semiconductor and electronics industries, may negatively impact our business and reduce our bookings levels and revenue. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in global markets as well as a variety of other laws and regulations. As we continue to acquire and invest in companies or technologies, we may not realize the expected business or financial benefits and these acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results and the market value of our common stock. We could suffer serious harm to our business because of the infringement or misappropriation of our IP rights by third parties. Our success is highly dependent upon the legal protection of our proprietary technology, as well as software and other IP rights licensed to us by third parties, and we cannot assure that the precautions taken to protect our rights will be adequate or that we will continue to be able to adequately secure such IP rights from third parties. We may not realize opportunities presented by AI and may incur reputational and financial harm and liability as a result of issues in the development and use of AI. Cyberattacks that compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our or our third-party providers information technology systems or confidential information could materially harm our business, reputation and financial condition. Risks associated with our international operations could adversely impact our financial condition. The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact our revenue, expenses, cash flows and financial condition. We depend upon our management team and qualified employees, and our failure to attract, train, motivate and retain them may make us less competitive and therefore harm our results of operations. A significant portion of our cash is held and generated outside of the United States, and if our cash available in the United States is insufficient to meet our requirements in the United States, we may be required to raise cash in ways that could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. The investment of our cash is subject to risks that may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. The long sales cycle of our products and services may cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly. We have incurred, and may in the future incur, substantial costs in connection with restructuring plans, which might not result in the benefits we anticipate, possibly having a negative effect on our future operating results. Our business is subject to the risk of natural disasters and global climate change. Risks Related to Customers, Suppliers and Industry Competition Customer consolidation could affect our operating results. Our failure to respond quickly to technological developments or customers increasing technological requirements and to continue to develop or acquire technological capabilities could make our products uncompetitive and obsolete and impede our ability to address the requirements in technology segments that are expected to contribute to our growth. Our investment in research and development of new and existing products, technologies and services may affect our operating results, and our return on investment may be lower or develop more slowly than expected. Our operating results and revenue could be adversely affected by customer payment delays, customer bankruptcies and defaults, modifications or non-renewals of licenses. The competition in our industries is substantial, and we may not be able to continue to compete successfully. 11 Table of Contents Our future revenue is dependent in part upon our installed customer base continuing to license or buy products and purchase services. We depend on a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers for certain hardware components and contract manufacturers for production of our hardware products, making us vulnerable to supply disruption and price fluctuation. Tax, Regulatory and Litigation Risks Our results could be adversely affected by an increase in our effective tax rate as a result of U.S. and foreign tax law changes, outcomes of current or future tax examinations, or by material differences between our forecasted and actual effective tax rates. Litigation, government investigations or regulatory proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operations. Errors, defects or other issues with our products and services could expose us to liability and harm our business. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles, and we may incur significant costs to adjust our accounting systems and processes to comply with significant changes. If we become subject to unfair hiring claims, we could be prevented from hiring needed employees, incur liability for damages and incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. We are subject to evolving corporate governance, environmental and social practices and public disclosure expectations and regulations that impact compliance costs and risks of noncompliance. Risks Related to Our Securities and Indebtedness Our stock price has been and may continue to be subject to fluctuations. The amount and frequency of our share repurchases may fluctuate, and we cannot guarantee that we will fully consummate our share repurchase authorization, or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. Share repurchases could also increase the volatility of the trading price of our common stock and diminish our cash reserves. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions under Delaware law could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain disputes between us and our stockholders. Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness. At the option of the holders of our outstanding notes, we may, under certain circumstances, be required to repurchase such notes. The terms of our debt agreements restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Various factors could increase our future borrowing costs or reduce our access to capital, including a lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to us and our New Notes by credit rating agencies. Business and Operational Risks We have experienced varied operating results, and our operating results for any particular fiscal period are affected by the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our hardware, IP and certain software products. Historical results of operations should not be viewed as reliable indicators of our future performance. Various factors affect our operating results, and some of them are not within our control. Our operating results for any period are affected by the mix of products and services sold in a given period and the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our hardware, IP and certain software products for which revenue is recognized at a point in time rather than over time. In addition, we have recorded net losses in the past and may record net losses in the future. Also, our cash flows from operating activities have and will continue to fluctuate due to a number of factors, including the timing of our billings, collections, disbursements and tax payments. A substantial portion of our software licenses yield revenue recognized over time, which may make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue in future fiscal periods and means that a decrease in orders in a given period would negatively affect our revenue in future periods. 12 Table of Contents A substantial portion of the product revenue related to our hardware and IP, and to a lesser extent certain software, is recognized upon delivery, and our forecasted revenue results are based, in part, on our expectations of these products to be delivered in a particular quarter. Therefore, changes in bookings or deliveries for these products, relative to expectations, will have a more immediate impact on our revenue than changes in the majority of our time-based software or services bookings, for which revenue is generally recognized over time. Revenue related to our hardware and IP products is inherently difficult to predict because sales of our hardware and IP products depend on the commencement of new projects for the design and development of complex ICs and systems by our customers, our customers willingness to expend capital to deploy our new and existing hardware or IP products in those projects and the availability of our new and existing hardware or IP products for delivery. Therefore, our hardware or IP sales may be delayed or may decrease if our customers delay or cancel projects because their spending is constrained or if there are problems or delays with the supply, delivery or installation of our hardware or IP products or our hardware suppliers. Moreover, the market environment for hardware and IP is highly competitive, and our customers may choose to purchase a competitors hardware or IP product based on cost, performance or other factors. These factors may result in lower revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. As we continue to expand our IP offerings, a portion of the revenue related to our IP bookings will be deferred until we complete and deliver the licensed IP to our customers. As a result, costs related to the research and development of IP may be incurred prior to the recognition of the related revenue. We plan our operating expenses based on forecasted revenue, expected business needs and other factors such as inflation. These expenses and the effect of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. Bookings and the related revenue are harder to forecast in a difficult economic environment. If we experience a shortfall in bookings, our operating results could differ from our expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce our expenses in response to short-term business changes. Our operating expenses are also impacted by economic conditions, such as inflation. Unexpected increases in inflation could cause our expenses to increase at a rate faster than our product pricing to recover such increases. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see Critical Accounting Estimates under Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Such methods, estimates and judgments are subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that may lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Uncertainty in the global economy and instability within international relations, including changes in governmental policies relating to technology, and any potential downturn in the semiconductor and electronics industries, may negatively impact our business and reduce our bookings levels and revenue. Purchases of our products and services are dependent upon the commencement of new design projects by semiconductor and electronics systems companies. The IC and electronics systems industries are cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The semiconductor and electronics systems industries have also experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both these industries and their customers products. The current outlook for the global economy is uncertain and may result in a decrease in spending on our products and services despite recent growth. Uncertainty caused by challenging global political and economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, bank failures, U.S. deficit concerns, geopolitical conflicts and other adverse changes to international relationships among countries in which we or our customers operate or do business, protectionist measures or decline in corporate or consumer spending could negatively impact our customers businesses, reducing the number of new chip designs and their overall research and development spending, including their spending on our products and services, and as a result decrease demand for our products and services. Adverse developments that affect financial institutions, transactional counterparties or other third parties, such as bank failures and failure by Congress to increase the U.S. federal debt ceiling on a timely basis, or concerns or speculation about any similar events or risks, have led and could lead to further credit downgrades and market-wide liquidity problems, which in turn may cause customers and other third parties to become unable to meet their obligations under various types of financial arrangements as well as general disruptions or instability in the financial markets. Public health emergencies and reactionary measures by governments and businesses have also had, and could in the future have, the effect of curtailing economic activity and causing substantial volatility and disruption in global markets. Decreased bookings for our products and services, customer bankruptcies, consolidation among our customers, or problems or delays with our hardware suppliers or with the supply or delivery of our hardware products could also adversely affect our ability to grow our business or adversely affect our future revenue and financial results. 13 Table of Contents There is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships between certain countries and within regions, that political, diplomatic or military events could result in trade disruptions and other disruptions in the markets and industries we serve and our supply chain. A significant disruption in any area where we or our customers operate or do business could reduce customer demand, make our products and services more expensive or unavailable for customers, increase the cost of our products and services, have a negative impact on customer spending, make our products less competitive, or otherwise have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits, our customers and suppliers businesses, and our results of operations. For example, the ongoing geopolitical and economic uncertainty between the United States and China, where we have derived a substantial percentage of our revenue, the unknown impact of current and future U.S. and Chinese trade regulations, and geopolitical risks with respect to Taiwan, which serves as a central hub for the technology industry supply chain, could, directly or indirectly, materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future business and financial results, including demand for our products and services, are subject to considerable uncertainties that could impact our stock price. If economic conditions or international relationships among countries in which we do business deteriorate, or, in particular, if semiconductor or electronics systems industry revenues do not grow, the ability to export or import products or services by the semiconductor or electronics systems industry is adversely restricted, or our supplies of hardware components and products are subject to problems or delays, we may be adversely affected. Further, political or economic conflicts between various global actors, and responsive measures that have been or could be taken, have created and can further create significant global economic uncertainty that could prolong or expand such conflicts, which could have a lasting impact on regional and global economies and harm our business and operating results. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in global markets as well as a variety of other laws and regulations. We must comply with the import and export restrictions and regulations and economic sanctions laws of the United States and of certain other countries in selling, providing or shipping our products and transferring our technology outside the United States, to foreign nationals (including foreign nationals within the United States) or across borders. Changes in our products or services, or changes in and continued expansion of these laws and regulations, including new or increased tariffs, trade protection measures, sanctions, trade embargoes and other trade barriers, may create delays in the introduction of our products or services into international markets, prevent our customers from deploying our products or services or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products or services to certain countries, governments or persons altogether or result in increased costs for us, which could reduce our competitiveness, or for our customers, which could affect their purchasing behaviors. Any decreased use of our products or services or limitation on our ability to export to or sell our products or services in international markets would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, BIS maintains and frequently adds entities to the Entity List, which limits our ability to deliver products and services to these entities, some of which are our customers. When customers are on the Entity List or are subject to new or expanded trade restrictions, it has a negative effect on our ability to sell products and provide services to these customers. In addition, the issuance of new or expanded trade restrictions, such as the continued expansion of the military end-user and military end-use rule, the foreign-direct product rules, or any other rule that prevents a class of commodities, software or technology from export to any specific country or countries without a license, could increase our costs or expenses. Anticipated or actual changes in trade restrictions could also affect customer purchasing behaviors. Entity List restrictions and other trade restrictions may also encourage customers to seek substitute products from our competitors, including a growing class of foreign competitors and open source alternatives, that are not subject to these restrictions or to develop their own solutions, thereby decreasing our long-term competitiveness. In particular, Chinas stated national policy to be a global leader in all segments of the semiconductor industry by 2030 has resulted in and may continue to cause increased competitive capability in China. In addition, although customers on the Entity List are not prohibited from paying (and we are not restricted from collecting) for products we previously delivered to them (in compliance with applicable law), the credit risks associated with outstanding receivables from customers on the Entity List including receivables from anti-piracy enforcement efforts and litigation settlements and other trade restrictions could increase. We cannot predict whether or when any changes will be made that eliminate or decrease these limitations on our ability to sell products and provide services to these Entity List customers or other customers impacted by other trade restrictions. We are unable to predict the duration of the export restrictions imposed with respect to any particular customer, technology, country or region or the long-term effects on our business or our customers businesses. In addition, there may be indirect impacts to our business which we cannot reasonably quantify, including that certain restrictions, even if not directly applicable to us, may impact our customers' products which may have an adverse effect on demand for our products, or that a country-specific export control may limit or prevent our employees who are nationals of the restricted country from performing their duties unless a license can be obtained. Additionally, our business may also be impacted by other trade restrictions that may be imposed by the United States, China or other countries. For example, the United States and other global actors have imposed economic sanctions on Russia and other entities and individuals as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and conflicts in the Middle East. New or increased tariffs and other changes in U.S. trade policy, including new sanctions, could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries. 14 Table of Contents Failure to obtain import, export or re-export licenses or permits when required or restrictions on trade imposed by the United States or other countries could harm our business by rendering us unable to sell or ship products and transfer our technology outside of the United States or across borders. In addition, if our customers sell our products to any entity on the Entity List without our knowledge or authorization, we may be held liable for such sales. Although we have implemented risk-based policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to comply with all applicable trade restrictions, we and governmental authorities have had and may in the future have reason to inquire into particular sales. Specifically, in February 2021, we received an administrative subpoena from BIS requesting the production of records in connection with certain sales to our customers in China. In November 2023, we received a related subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) that also requested information regarding our business activity in China. In December 2024, we began discussions with BIS and DOJ regarding preliminary findings of their investigations and a potential resolution of this matter. We have been and will continue cooperating with BIS and DOJ in responding to the subpoenas and their ongoing investigations. These matters are subject to uncertainties and the outcomes of these and other proceedings that may occur are difficult to predict. If any governmental fines, penalties, restrictions or compliance requirements are imposed on us, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, political, media or other scrutiny surrounding governmental investigations or their outcome could cause significant expense and reputational harm and distract senior executives from managing normal day-to-day operations. The laws and policies of the United States and other countries in this area are evolving and changing, and we have experienced and may continue to experience challenges in complying with new rules as they become effective. The application and interpretation of these laws and policies can also be uncertain and change over time, and we may need to adjust our policies and procedures accordingly. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws and policies could have negative consequences, including significant legal costs, government investigations, penalties, denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, reputation and financial condition. In addition to export control laws, our global operations are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, tax, corporate governance, financial and other disclosures, competition, antitrust, data privacy, data protection and employment. These laws and regulations are complex and may have differing or conflicting legal standards, making compliance difficult and costly, and changes to these laws, or their interpretations, may require us to make significant changes to our business operations that may adversely affect our business overall. The policies and procedures we have implemented to assist our compliance with these laws and regulations do not provide complete assurance that our employees, contractors, agents or partners will not violate such laws and regulations. Any violation individually or in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our operations, reputation and financial condition. For more information about the import and export restrictions and regulations that we may be subject to, see Governmental RegulationsTrade under Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report. As we continue to acquire and invest in companies or technologies, we may not realize the expected business or financial benefits and these acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results and the market value of our common stock. As part of our business strategy, we invest in, and acquire complementary businesses, joint ventures, services and technologies and IP rights, some of which may be material to our financial condition and operating results. We continue to engage in investments and acquisitions and evaluate such opportunities and expect to continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to find and identify desirable investment or acquisition targets, and we may not be successful in entering into an agreement with any particular target. Acquisitions and other transactions, arrangements and investments involve numerous risks and potential operating difficulties and expenditures, including the following, any of which could harm our business or negatively impact our results of operations: the failure to complete transactions on a timely basis or at all, or to realize, or a delay in realizing, anticipated benefits or synergies, including as a result of any conditions placed upon approvals from governmental authorities; potential identified or unknown security vulnerabilities in acquired companies, technologies or products that expose us to additional security risks or delay our ability to integrate them; brand or reputational harm, including due to failure or perceived failure to achieve our publicly disclosed greenhouse gas emissions reduction target due to acquisitions with large greenhouse gas emissions; the failure to understand, compete and operate effectively in markets where we have limited experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; the failure to integrate, combine or manage acquired products, infrastructure, technologies and businesses effectively; difficulties in integrating and assimilating acquired employees, which may lead to retention risk with respect to both acquired and existing employees and difficulties related to acquired employees represented by labor unions; the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; diversion of financial resources and managements attention from day-to-day business; 15 Table of Contents overlapping customers and product sets that impact our ability to maintain revenue at historical rates; unanticipated costs or assumed liabilities, including those related to an acquired company's disclosure