Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items, any statement of the plans and objectives of management for future operations, any statements concerning proposed new products or licensing, any statements regarding product development, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, and any statement of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expects, plans, anticipates, estimates, potential, or continue or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the Risk Factors set forth under Part II, Item 1A below, and for the reasons described elsewhere in this report. All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this report are made as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or reasons why actual results might differ. Overview We are a leading provider in North America of broadband communications access systems and software for fiber- and copper-based network architectures that enable communications service providers, or CSPs, to connect to their residential and business subscribers. We enable CSPs to provide a wide range of revenue-generating services, from basic voice and data to advanced broadband services, over legacy and next-generation access networks. We focus solely on CSP access networks, the portion of the network which governs available bandwidth and determines the range and quality of services that can be offered to subscribers. We develop and sell carrier-class hardware and software products, which is referred to as the Unified Access portfolio that are designed to enhance and transform CSP access networks to meet the changing demands of subscribers rapidly and cost-effectively. 22 Table of Contents Our revenue has increased to $83.7 million and $253.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 24, 2011, respectively, from $75.5 million and $195.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 25, 2010, respectively. Continued revenue growth will depend on. our ability to continue to sell our access systems and software to existing customers and to attract new customers, including in particular, those customers in the large CSP and international markets. During the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we experienced a slowdown in business primarily related to continued delays in Broadband Stimulus awards under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 becoming shippable orders due to challenges that a number of our awarded customers are facing in navigating some of the bureaucratic hurdles of the program. Other factors that contributed to this slowdown include reduced investment in the traditional networks at two of our major customers, the competitive environment, weak macro-economic conditions and fiber shortages in certain portions of the market caused by the tsunami in Northern Japan earlier this year. We expect these issues to continue and negatively impact our fourth quarter results. Since our inception we have incurred significant losses, and as of September 24, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $459.0 million. Our net loss was $6.9 million and $47.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 24, 2011, respectively. Our net loss was $5.4 million and $17.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 25, 2010, respectively. Basis of Presentation Acquisition of Occam Networks On February 22, 2011, we completed our acquisition of Occam Networks, Inc. (Occam), a provider of innovative broadband access products designed to enable telecom service providers to offer bundled voice, video and high speed internet, or Triple Play, services over both fiber optic and copper networks in a stock and cash transaction valued at approximately $213.1 million which consisted of $94.4 million of cash consideration and a value of $118.7 million of common stock and equity awards issued. Through this acquisition, we expect to achieve the strategic benefits of creating a more competitive and efficient company, more capable of competing against larger telecommunications equipment companies in more markets and significant cost synergies due to the combined company. The combined organization is expected to provide communications service providers globally with an enhanced portfolio of advanced broadband access systems, and accelerate innovation across the expanded Calix Unified Access portfolio. The acquisition is also expected to result in more access options over both fiber and copper for communications service providers to deploy, which could expedite the proliferation of advanced broadband services to both residential and business subscribers, including such services as high-speed Internet, IPTV, VOIP, Ethernet business services, and other advanced broadband applications. As a result of this acquisition, we recorded $50.6 million in goodwill and $97.7 million in other intangible assets. We are amortizing the definite-lived intangible assets over their useful lives. See Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates Goodwill and Intangible Assets below for information relating to these items and our test for impairment. Under purchase accounting rules, we revalued the acquired Occam assets and liabilities acquired at the time of the acquisition, based on their fair value. See Note 3 Acquisition of Occam Networks in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for additional information related to this acquisition. Revenue We derive our revenue primarily from sales of our hardware products and related software. We generally recognize revenue after products have been delivered and accepted, and title has been transferred to the customer. In certain cases, our products are sold along with services, which include installation, training, post-sales software support and/or extended warranty services. To date, service revenue has comprised an insignificant portion of our revenue, and we have not reported service revenue separately from product revenue in our financial statements. As of September 24, 2011, our revenue deferrals, related to partially delivered arrangements that were entered into prior to January 1, 2010, and contracts with customers who receive government supported loans and grants from the U.S. Department of Agricultures Rural Utility Service (RUS) that include installation services, special customer arrangements and ratably recognized services totaled $31.7 million. Where substantive acceptance provisions are specified in an arrangement or extended return rights exist, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met or the extended return rights expire. The timing of deferred revenue recognition may cause significant fluctuations in our revenue and operating results from period to period. 23 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue is comprised of the following: Products and services revenue Cost of products revenue includes the inventory costs of our products that have shipped, accrued warranty costs for our standard warranty program, outbound freight costs to deliver products to our customers, overhead from our manufacturing operations cost centers, including stock-based compensation, and other manufacturing related costs associated with manufacturing our products and managing our inventory. We outsource our manufacturing to third-party manufacturers. Inventory costs are estimated using standard costs which reflect the cost of historical direct labor, direct overhead and materials used to build our inventory. Cost of services revenue includes direct installation material costs, direct costs from third-party installers, professional service costs, repair fees charged by our outsourced repair contractors to refurbish product returns under an extended warranty or per incident repair agreement, and other miscellaneous costs to support our services. Merger-related expenses Inventory acquired from Occam was revalued to its estimated fair value and is amortized to cost of revenue as the inventory is sold. We amortized $14.2 million related to the revaluation of inventory during the nine months ended September 24, 2011. Additionally, acquired inventories determined as excess and obsolete resulted in a write-down of $5.6 million in nine months ended September 24, 2011. Amortization of acquired intangible assets Amortized acquired intangible assets are comprised of core developed technologies, purchase order backlog and trade name obtained in the Occam and OSI acquisitions. The remaining balance of existing and core developed technologies resulting from our acquisition of OSI was fully amortized during the three months ended March 26, 2011. Gross Profit Our gross profit and gross margin have been, and will likely be, impacted by several factors, including new product introduction or upgrades to existing products, changes in customer mix, changes in the mix of products demanded and sold, shipment volumes, changes in our product costs, changes in pricing and the extent of customer rebates and incentive programs. We believe our gross margin could increase due to favorable changes in these factors, for example, increases in sales of our advanced E7 Ethernet service access platform, which was introduced in the fourth quarter of 2009, upgrades to our C7 platform, new introductions of our P-Series optical network terminal and reductions in the impact of rebate or similar programs. We believe our gross margin could decrease due to unfavorable changes in factors such as increased product costs, pricing decreases due to competitive pressure and an unfavorable customer or product mix. Changes in these factors could have a material impact on our future average selling prices and unit costs. Also, the timing of deferred revenue recognition and related deferred costs can have a material impact on our gross profit and gross margin results. The timing of recognition and the relative size of these arrangements could cause large fluctuations in our gross profit from period to period. Additionally, to date we have incurred merger-related expenses related to inventory acquired from Occam of $14.2 million resulting from the required revaluation of the inventory to its estimated fair value, in addition to an associated write-down of inventory determined as excess and obsolete of $5.6 million, and the amortization of existing and core developed technologies, purchase order backlog and trade name, totaling $7.5 million. We do not anticipate any further merger-related expenses relating to inventory acquired from Occam for the remainder of 2011 or thereafter related to our acquisition of Occam. Existing and core developed technologies, purchase order backlog and trade name acquired from Occam will amortize over a maximum period of 5 years. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist primarily of research and development, sales and marketing, general and administrative expenses and merger-related and other expenses are recognized as incurred. Personnel-related costs, which include stock-based compensation expense, are the most significant component of each of these expense categories. We expect to continue to hire new employees in order to support our anticipated growth and status as a public company. In any particular period, the timing of additional hires could materially affect our operating expenses, both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase in absolute dollar amounts but will decline as a percentage of revenue over time. Research and Development Research and development expenses represent the largest component of our operating expenses and include personnel costs, consulting services, depreciation on lab equipment, costs of prototypes and overhead allocations. We generally expense research and development costs as incurred, since the costs of software development that we incur after a product has reached technological feasibility are not material. We intend to continue making significant investments in developing new products and enhancing the functionality of our existing products. 24 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel costs, employee sales commissions and marketing programs. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase as we hire additional personnel both in North America and internationally to promote our anticipated revenue growth. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and costs for facilities related to our executive, finance, human resource, information technology and legal organizations and fees for professional services. Professional services consist of outside legal, tax and audit costs. We expect to incur significant additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Merger-related and other expenses Merger-related expenses primarily include legal and professional expenses, severance and integration-related expenses associated with our acquisition of Occam and a charge related to a litigation settlement. Amortization of acquired Intangible assets Amortized acquired intangible assets are comprised of customer relationships obtained in the Occam and OSI acquisitions. The amortization of acquired intangible assets from our acquisition of OSI ended during three months ended March 26, 2011. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily includes interest expense on outstanding loans and interest income on our cash and investment balances. In addition, other income (expense), net includes adjustments to record our convertible preferred stock warrants at fair value. These convertible preferred stock warrants were converted into common stock warrants upon the closing of our initial public offering, or IPO, on March 26, 2010. Although an adjustment was recorded in the three months ended March 27, 2010, no such adjustment was made during the nine months ended September 24, 2011 and no further adjustments will be made in future periods. Further, on May 4, 2010, we paid in its entirety our outstanding term loan of $20.0 million including outstanding accrued interest and prepayment penalties of $0.4 million. Critical Accounting Policies and the Use of Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates and judgments that can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. Management bases its estimates, assumptions and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. Our management evaluates its estimates, assumptions and judgments on an ongoing basis. On January 1, 2010, we adopted the new accounting standard for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements (ASC Topic 605-25), on a prospective basis, related to allocating revenue in a multiple deliverable arrangement as described in the significant accounting policies in our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 24, 2011. Other than the adoption of ASC Topic 605-25, there have been no significant changes in our significant accounting policies during the nine months ended September 24, 2011 as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 24, 2011. The items in our condensed consolidated financial statements requiring significant estimates and judgments are as follows: Business Combination We completed our acquisition of Occam Networks in February 2011 for a purchase price of $213.1 million which consisted of $94.4 million of cash consideration and a value of $118.7 million of common stock and equity awards issued. See Note 3 Acquisition of Occam Networks in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We accounted for the acquisition of Occam under ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net tangible and net intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. The fair values assigned to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities are based on valuations using managements best estimates and assumptions at the conclusion of the measurement period. During the measurement period (which is not to exceed one year from the acquisition date), we are required to retrospectively adjust the provisional assets or liabilities if new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have resulted in the recognition of those assets or liabilities as of that date. The application of the purchase method of accounting for business combinations requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions in the determination of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in order to properly allocate purchase price consideration between assets 25 Table of Contents that are depreciated and amortized from goodwill. These assumptions and estimates include a market participants use of the asset and the appropriate discount rates for a market participant. Our estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies. Our significant assumptions and estimates can include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate in the future, the appropriate weighted-average cost of capital, and the cost savings expected to be derived from acquiring an asset. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates. We have finalized the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities from Occam Networks as of June 25, 2011. Revenue Recognition In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, amended the accounting standards for revenue recognition to remove tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the products essential functionality from the scope of industry-specific software revenue recognition guidance. In October 2009, the FASB also amended the accounting standards for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements to: (i) provide updated guidance on how the deliverables in an arrangement should be separated, and how the consideration should be allocated; (ii) require an entity to allocate revenue in an arrangement using best estimate of selling prices, or BSP, of deliverables if a vendor does not have vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price, or VSOE, or third-party evidence of selling price, or TPE; and (iii) eliminate the use of the residual method and require an entity to allocate revenue using the relative selling price method. We early adopted this accounting guidance at the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal 2010 on a prospective basis for applicable transactions originating or materially modified after December 31, 2009. Our products and services qualify as separate units of accounting. Products are typically considered delivered upon shipment and are deemed to be non-contingent deliverables. We provide certain services at stated prices over a specified period of time and must meet specified performance conditions. As such, we have determined that our individual services are contingent deliverables. In addition, we provide specified packages of items considered a package arrangement which we also consider a contingent deliverable, and therefore we do not bill our customers until we have fully delivered the package. For multiple-element arrangements that include products and packages or services, we will first exclude the contingent revenue items and then allocate the remaining consideration to the non-contingent product deliverables on the basis of their relative selling price, which is currently BSP. To the extent that the stated contractual prices fall within our calculated range for BSP, we will allocate the consideration using the stated contractual prices. However, if the stated contractual price for any product deliverable is outside the range, the contractual prices will be adjusted using the midpoint price within its range in order to allocate arrangement consideration using the relative selling price method. Since the individual products and services meet the criteria for separate units of accounting, we will recognize revenue upon delivery of each product and/or services. Post-sales software support revenue and extended warranty services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed. Installation and training service arrangements are recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. These service arrangements are typically short term in nature and are largely completed shortly after delivery of the product. Revenue from package arrangements is recognized upon full delivery of the package. In instances where substantive acceptance provisions are specified in the customer agreement, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. Our arrangements generally do not include any provisions for cancellation, termination, or refunds that would significantly impact recognized revenue. We derive revenue primarily from the sale of hardware products and related software. Shipping charges billed to customers are included in revenue and the related shipping costs are included in cost of revenue. In certain cases, our products are sold along with services, which include installation, training, post-sales software support and/or extended warranty services. Post-sales software support consists of our management software, including rights, on a when-and-if available basis, to receive unspecified software product upgrades to either embedded software or our management software, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period and product support, which includes telephone and Internet access to technical support personnel. Extended warranty services include the right to warranty coverage beyond the standard warranty period. From time to time, we offer customers sales incentives, which include volume rebates and discounts. These amounts are accrued on a quarterly basis and recorded net of revenue. Payment terms to customers generally range from net 30 to net 90 days. We assess the ability to collect from our customers based primarily on the creditworthiness and past payment history of the customer. Revenue arrangements that provide payment terms that extend beyond our customary payment terms are considered extended payment terms. 26 Table of Contents Occasionally, we offer extended payment terms in a revenue arrangement. Through the date of this filing, we have not experienced any significant accounts receivable write-offs related to revenue arrangements with extended payment terms. Customer arrangements with extended payment terms may also include substantive acceptance criteria within the arrangement which, in accordance with our revenue recognition policy, would cause the revenue in the arrangement to be deferred until all the acceptance criteria have been met. Extended payment terms may also indicate that the customer is relying on a future event as a prerequisite for the payment, such as installation, a new software release or financing, which would indicate that the fees associated with the arrangement are not fixed or determinable. Due to the unusual nature and uncertainty associated with granting extended payment terms in customer arrangements, we defer revenue under these arrangements and recognize the revenue upon payment from the customer, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. We enter into arrangements with certain of our customers who receive government supported loans and grants from RUSs, to finance capital spending. Under the terms of an RUS equipment contract that includes installation services, the customer does not take possession and control and title does not pass until formal acceptance is obtained from the customer. Under this type of arrangement, we do not recognize revenue until we have received formal acceptance from the customer. For RUS arrangements that do not involve installation services, we recognize revenue in accordance with the revenue recognition policy described above. We have established VSOE for our training, post-sales software support and extended warranty services. Training courses are based on a daily rate per person and will vary according to the type of training class offered. Post-sales software support is offered for a one year term and the price is based on the number of customer subscriber lines. Extended warranty pricing is based on the type of product and is sold in one or five year durations. In substantially all of the arrangements with multiple deliverables pertaining to arrangements with these services, we have used and intend to continue using VSOE to allocate the selling price to each deliverable. We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing practices for these specific services when sold separately. In most instances, we are not able to establish VSOE for all deliverables in an arrangement with multiple elements. This may be due to infrequently selling each element separately, not pricing products within a narrow range, or only having a limited sales history. When VSOE cannot be established, we attempt to establish selling price of each element based on TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. Generally, our marketing strategy differs from that of our peers and our offerings contain a significant level of customization and differentiation such that the comparable pricing of products with similar functionality cannot be obtained. Furthermore, we are unable to reliably determine what similar competitor products selling prices are on a stand-alone basis. Therefore, we are typically not able to determine TPE. When we are unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, we use BSP. The objective of BSP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. BSP is primarily used for all products and installation services where we historically have not been able to establish VSOE of selling price. We determine BSP for a product or service by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, geographies, market conditions, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives, characteristics of targeted customers and pricing practices. The determination of BSP is made through consultation with and formal approval by management, taking into consideration the go-to-market strategy. We regularly review VSOE, TPE and BSP and maintain internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates. There were no material impacts during the third quarter and the first nine months ended September 24, 2011 nor do we expect a material impact in the near term from changes in VSOE, TPE or BSP. Stock-Based Compensation Under the provisions of ASC Topic 718, for share-based payment transactions , stock-based awards, including stock options, are recorded at fair value as of the grant date and recognized to expense over the employees requisite service period (generally the vesting period), which we have elected to amortize on a straight-line basis. We adopted this guidance using the modified prospective transition method. Stock-based compensation amounts have been reduced by our estimated forfeitures on all unvested awards. Under the provisions of this guidance, we estimate the fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. This model requires various highly judgmental assumptions, including volatility, expected forfeiture rates and expected option life, which have a significant impact on the fair value estimates. Because we are a newly public company, we derive our expected volatility based on our peer group of publicly-traded companies in the industry in which we do business. The expected life of an option award is calculated using the simplified method provided in the SECs Staff Accounting Bulletin 110, and takes into consideration the grants contractual life and vesting periods. We apply 27 Table of Contents an estimated forfeiture rate based on an analysis of our actual forfeitures and will continue to evaluate the adequacy of the forfeiture rate based on actual forfeiture experience, analysis of employee turnover behavior and other factors. If any of the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model change significantly, stock-based compensation expense may differ materially in the future from that recorded in the current period. The fair values of the common stock underlying stock options granted during 2008 and 2009 were estimated by our board of directors, which intended all options granted to be exercisable at a price per share not less than the per share fair market value of our common stock underlying those options on the date of grant. Given the absence of a public trading market in the periods prior to our IPO, our board of directors considered numerous objective and subjective factors to determine the best estimate of the fair market value of our common stock at each meeting at which stock option grants were approved. These factors included, but were not limited to, the following: contemporaneous valuations of our common stock, the rights and preferences of our convertible preferred stock relative to our common stock, the lack of marketability of our common stock, developments in our business, recent issuances of our convertible preferred stock and the likelihood of achieving a liquidity event, such as a IPO, or sale of our company, given prevailing market conditions. If we had made different assumptions and estimates, the amount of our recognized and to be recognized stock-based compensation expense could have been materially different. We believe that we have used reasonable methodologies, approaches and assumptions in determining the fair value of our common stock. During the three months ended September 24, 2011 and September 25, 2010, we recorded stock-based compensation of $3.8 million and $7.5 million, respectively. During the nine months ended September 24, 2011 and September 24, 2010, we recorded stock-based compensation expense of $17.2 million and $17.5 million, respectively. At September 24, 2011, we had $8.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options, net of estimated forfeitures. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average service period of approximately 3.1 years. At September 24, 2011, we had $29.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock units, or RSUs, and restricted stock awards or RSAs net of estimated forfeitures. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average service period of approximately 3.32 years. To the extent that the actual forfeiture rate is different than what we have anticipated, stock-based compensation related to these awards will be adjusted in future periods. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill and other purchased intangible assets have been recorded as a result of our acquisition of Occam in February 2011 and OSI, in February 2006. This goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes, and there have been no adjustments to goodwill since the applicable acquisition date. Goodwill is not amortized but instead is subject to an impairment test annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they may be impaired. We evaluate goodwill on an annual basis as of the end of the second quarter of each fiscal year. The test for goodwill impairment is a two-step process. The first step compares the fair value of each reporting unit with its respective carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered impaired and, therefore, the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. The second step, used to measure the amount of the impairment loss, compares the implied fair value of each reporting units goodwill with the respective carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Management has determined that it operates as a single reporting unit and therefore evaluates goodwill impairment at the enterprise level. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally six months to five years, and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an assets carrying value may not be recoverable. We have reviewed events and changes to our business during the quarter and have determined that there was no impairment to goodwill and intangible assets. Supplier Concentration We depend primarily on a small number of outside contract manufacturers for the bulk of our finished goods inventory. We generally purchase our product through purchase orders and typically have no supply agreements with our suppliers or our contract manufacturers. While we seek to maintain a sufficient reserve of our products, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by a stoppage or delay in receiving such products, the receipt of defective parts, an increase in price of such products or our inability to obtain lower prices from our contract manufacturers and suppliers in response to competitive pressures. In connection with the acquisition of Occam, under the terms of the agreement with certain contract manufacturers, we have issued purchase orders for the production of our products. We are required to place orders in advance with our contract manufacturers to meet estimated sales demands. Future amounts payable to the contract manufacturers will vary based on the level of requirements. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations Our results of operations for the third quarter and the first nine months ended September 24, 2011 include the operations of Occam beginning on February 22, 2011, the effective date of our acquisition of Occam. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. In addition, a significant portion of our quarterly sales typically occur during the last month of the quarter, which we believe reflects customer buying patterns of products similar to ours and other products in the technology industry generally. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict even in the near term. Revenue fluctuations result from many factors, including but not limited to: increases or decreases in customer orders for our products and services, large customer purchase agreements with special revenue considerations, varying budget cycles for our customers and seasonal buying patterns of our customers. More specifically, our customers tend to spend less in the first fiscal quarter as they are finalizing their annual budgets. Customers then typically decide to purchase our products during our second fiscal quarter. In our third fiscal quarter, customers are in the process of deploying such products and as a result there is less spending. In addition, difficulties related to deploying products during the winter also tend to limit spending in the third quarter. Finally, in our fourth fiscal quarter, customer purchases increase as customers are attempting to spend the remainder of their budget for the year. Cost of revenue is strongly correlated to revenue and will tend to fluctuate from all the aforementioned factors that could impact revenue. Our cost of revenue for the three and nine months ended September 24, 2011 includes merger-related expenses and amortization of intangible assets from our acquisition of Occam as discussed in more detail below. Other additional factors that impact cost of revenue include changes in the mix of products delivered to our customers and changes in the cost of our inventory. Cost of revenue includes fixed expenses related to our internal operations department which could impact our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue, if there are large sequential fluctuations to revenue. Our operating expenses have fluctuated based on the following factors: timing of variable sales compensation expenses due to fluctuations in order volumes, timing of salary increases which have historically occurred in the second quarter, timing of research and development expenses including prototype builds and intermittent outsourced development projects and increases in stock-based compensation expenses resulting from modifications to outstanding stock options. Additionally, operating expenses for the three and nine months ended September 24, 2011 includes merger-related expenses and amortization of intangible assets from our acquisition of Occam as discussed in more detail below. As a result of the acquisition, we have also incurred increased compensation costs from additional headcount. As a result of the fluctuations described above and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, our quarterly operating results fluctuate from period to period. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. 29 Table of Contents Comparison of Three and Nine Months Ended September 24, 2011 and September 25, 2010 Revenue The following table sets forth our revenue: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 83,655 $ 75,492 $ 8,163 11 % $ 253,084 $ 195,348 $ 57,736 30 % Our revenue is principally derived in the United States. During the three months ended September 24, 2011 and September 25, 2010, revenue generated in the United States represented approximately 94% and 81% of revenue, respectively. During the nine months ended September 24, 2011 and September 25, 2010, revenue generated in the United States represented approximately 94% and 87% of revenue, respectively. Revenue increased during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2011 compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2010, primarily due to an increase in our customer base as a result of the Occam acquisition. Our revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 was impacted by a slowdown in business primarily related to continued delays in Broadband Stimulus awards under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 becoming shippable orders due to challenges that a number of our awarded customers are facing in navigating some of the bureaucratic hurdles of the program. Other factors that contributed to this slowdown include, reduced investment in the traditional networks at two of our major customers, the competitive environment, weak macro-economic conditions and fiber shortages in certain portions of the market caused by the tsunami in Northern Japan. We expect these issues to continue and negatively impact our fourth quarter results. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The following table sets forth our costs of revenue: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue: Products and services $ 49,002 $ 45,168 $ 3,834 8 % $ 143,209 $ 117,194 $ 26,015 22 % Merger related expenses 19,966 19,966 NA Amortization of intangible assets 2,806 1,360 1,446 106 % 7,510 4,080 3,430 84 % Total cost of revenue $ 51,808 $ 46,528 $ 5,280 11 % $ 170,685 $ 121,274 $ 49,411 41 % Gross profit $ 31,847 $ 28,964 $ 2,883 10 % $ 82,399 $ 74,074 $ 8,325 11 % Gross margin 38.1 % 38.4 % 32.6 % 37.9 % Cost of revenues increased during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2011 compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2010, primarily due to an increase in revenues recognized during this period and merger-related expenses in connection with our acquisition of Occam. In addition we experienced a significant increase in the excess and obsolete inventory reserves in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily due to end of life inventory and excess parts held by us and our contract manufacturer. 30 Table of Contents Gross margin decreased slightly during the third quarter of fiscal 2011, primarily due to higher acquisition related amortization expense of intangible assets when compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2010. During the first nine months of fiscal 2011 gross margin decreased primarily due to the merger-related expenses due to revaluation of inventory acquired in our acquisition of Occam. In addition, we recorded significant reserves for excess and obsolete inventory acquired from Occam during the first nine months ended of fiscal 2011. Excluding merger-related expenses gross margin increased during first nine months of fiscal 2011 to 40.4% primarily due to cost reductions, product mix, and within product mix the introduction of many new products in the last twelve months. In connection with the acquisition of Occam, $30.3 million of the total purchase price was allocated to amortizable intangible assets which included core developed technologies, purchase order backlog and trade name and is being amortized to cost of revenue. In connection with the acquisition of OSI, $28.9 million of the total purchase price was allocated to amortizable intangible assets which also included existing and core developed technologies, and purchase order backlog. For the three months ended September 24, 2011 and September 25, 2010, we recorded amortization expense of $2.8 million and $1.4 million, respectively. For the nine months ended September 24, 2011 and September 25, 2010, we recorded amortization expense of $7.5 million and $4.1 million, respectively. The amortization of intangible assets related to our acquisition of OSI was completed during the three months ended March 26, 2011. These intangible assets related to Occam will amortize over their estimated useful lives. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses The following table sets forth our research and development expenses: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 16,717 $ 14,299 $ 2,418 17 % $ 50,340 $ 39,232 $ 11,108 28 % Percent of total revenue 20.0 % 18.9 % 19.9 % 20.1 % Research and development expenses increased during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2011 compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2010, primarily due to an increase in compensation and related costs from an increase in headcount and increased facilities related expenses, resulting from the acquisition of Occam and the expansion of our China development center. In addition we also experienced an increase in prototype and consulting expenses related to new product development and our pursuit of OSMINE certification. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation expense resulting from RSUs granted in a company-wide stock option exchange program which began amortizing at the date of our IPO on March 24, 2010 and were fully vested and amortized in April 2011. Sales and Marketing Expenses The following table sets forth our sales and marketing expenses: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 12,593 $ 10,408 $ 2,185 21 % $ 38,831 $ 29,014 $ 9,817 34 % Percent of total revenue 15.1 % 13.8 % 15.3 % 14.9 % Sales and marketing expenses increased during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2011 compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2010, primarily due to an increase in compensation and related costs from an increase in headcount resulting from our acquisition of Occam and increased commission costs related to higher sales order volumes. In addition we experienced increases in travel related costs and facilities related expenses. 31 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth our general and administrative expenses: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 5,475 $ 7,344 $ (1,869 ) (25 )% $ 21,450 $ 19,515 $ 1,935 10 % Percent of total revenue 6.5 % 9.7 % 8.5 % 10.0 % General and administrative expenses decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and increased in the first nine months of fiscal 2011 compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2010. The decrease in the third quarter was primarily due to a decrease in stock-based compensation expense resulting from RSUs granted in a company-wide stock option exchange program which began amortizing at the date of our IPO on March 24, 2010 and were fully vested and amortized in April 2011. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in facilities related expenses, primarily resulting from the Occam acquisition. General and administrative expenses increased during the nine months ended September 24, 2011 as a result of compensation and related costs from increased headcount and an increase in facilities related expenses, due to the Occam acquisition, partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation expense resulting from the vesting of RSUs in April 2011 as noted above. Merger-related and other expenses The following table sets forth our merger-related and other expenses: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands) Merger-related and other expenses $ 1,404 $ 2,137 $ (733 ) (34 )% $ 12,927 $ 2,137 $ 10,790 505 % In connection with our acquisition of Occam, we have incurred operating merger-related and other expenses of $1.4 million and $12.9 million in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2011. The merger-related and other expenses primarily consists of legal and professional expenses, severance for terminated Occam employees, salaries paid to transitional Occam employees, and to a lesser extent a litigation settlement charge. In addition, we incurred expenses associated with consolidating facilities and stock-based compensation expense primarily related to accelerated vesting for certain Occam executives that terminated subsequent to the acquisition date. The merger-related and other expenses in the corresponding periods in fiscal 2010 consisted of legal and professional expenses in connection with our effort to acquire Occam. We do not anticipate to record any future merger related expenses. For more information regarding the Occam acquisition, see Note 3 Acquisition of Occam Networks in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 32 Table of Contents Amortization of Intangible Assets The following table sets forth our amortization of intangible asset expenses: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Amortization of intangible assets $ 2,552 $ 185 $ 2,367 1279 % $ 6,016 $ 555 $ 5,461 984 % In connection with the acquisition of Occam, $51.0 million of the total purchase price was allocated to the amortizable intangible asset, customer relationships, which are being amortized to operating expenses. In connection with the acquisition of OSI, $3.7 million of the total purchase price was allocated to customer relationships. For the three months ended September 24, 2011 and September 25, 2010, we recorded amortization expense of $2.6 million and $0.2 million, respectively. For the nine months ended September 24, 2011 and September 25, 2010, we recorded amortization expense of $ 6.0 million and $0.6 million, respectively. The amortization of intangible assets related to our acquisition of OSI was completed during the three months ended March 26, 2011. The intangible assets related to Occam will amortize over their estimated useful lives. Other Income (Expense) The following table sets forth our other income (expense): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income $ 11 $ 120 $ (109 ) (91 )% $ 80 $ 297 $ (217 ) (73 )% Interest expense (48 ) (45 ) (3 ) 7 % (139 ) (1,138 ) 999 (88 )% Change in fair value of preferred stock warrants (173 ) 173 (100 )% Other income (expense) 35 4 31 775 % 64 13 51 392 % Total other income (expense) $ (2 ) $ 79 $ (81 ) $ 5 $ (1,001 ) $ 1,006 The decrease in other expense, in the nine months ended September 24, 2011, when compared to the corresponding period of 2010 was primarily due to the repayment of our outstanding loan of $20.0 million on May 4, 2010 including outstanding accrued interest and prepayment penalties of $0.4 million. The expense resulting from the change in the fair value of preferred stock warrants was recorded in the first quarter of 2010. Such preferred stock warrants were converted to common stock warrants at the end of the first quarter of 2010 in connection with our initial public offering and will no longer require revaluation in future periods and therefore there was no related expense in any of the quarters in fiscal 2011or the quarters of fiscal 2010, following the first quarter. 33 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Nine Months Ended September 24, 2011 September 25, 2010 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 8,739 $ 8,377 Net cash used in investing activities (37,325 ) (42,440 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (7,545 ) 37,383 At September 24, 2011, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $32.3 million, which primarily consisted of money market mutual funds and highly liquid debt instruments held at major financial institutions. We have a revolving credit facility of $30.0 million based upon a percentage of eligible accounts receivable. Included in the revolving line are amounts available under letters of credit and cash management services. Since inception, we financed our operations primarily through private sales of equity and from borrowings under credit facilities. In our IPO we raised net proceeds of approximately $57.3 million. On May 4, 2010, we paid down our outstanding term loan of $20.0 million with Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB, in its entirety including outstanding accrued interest and prepayment penalties of $0.4 million. On February 22, 2011, we completed our acquisition of Occam in a stock and cash transaction valued at approximately $213.1 million. We paid $94.4 million in cash as part of the acquisition cost which was partially funded by cash assumed from Occam of $33.6 million. See Note 3 Acquisition of Occam Networks in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for more information regarding our acquisition of Occam. Operating Activities Our operating activities provided cash of $8.7 million in the nine months ended September 24, 2011. This resulted primarily from non-cash charges of $39.2 million (the majority of which consist of stock-based compensation expense and depreciation and amortization expense) and positive net changes in operating assets and liabilities, largely offset by our net loss of $47.3 million. Cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included a net decrease of $12.3 million in accounts receivable due to strong cash collections, $9.6 million related to the sell through of inventory, an increase in deferred revenue of $5.8 million of certain RUS funded contracts and an increase in accrued liabilities of $2.9 million. These inflows were partially offset by cash outflows from accounts payable of $10.1 million resulting primarily from payments of accounts payable assumed from Occam, an increase of $2.3 million in prepaid and other current assets and an increase in deferred cost of revenue of $1.2 million, primarily related to the deferral of revenue of certain RUS funded contracts. In the nine months ended September 24, 2010 our operating activities provided cash of $8.4 million. This resulted primarily from non-cash charges of $26.7 million (the majority of which consist of stock-based compensation charges), partially offset by our net loss of $17.8 million. Cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included a decrease in accounts receivable of $14.1 million due to lower shipments in the third quarter of 2010 compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, a decrease in deferred cost of goods sold of $6.0 million related to the decrease in deferred revenue, and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.4 million primarily due to lower procurement of raw materials on behalf of our manufacturing vendor and the write-off of loan origination fees from the repayment of our loan with SVB. Cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included a decrease in deferred revenue of $7.9 million primarily the result of a change in revenue recognition rules on multiple-element arrangements, which allowed us to recognize revenue on partially delivered orders in 2010 and an amendment to a customer agreement that had previously been accounted for under the ASC Topic 985-605, an increase in inventory of $6.4 million as we build inventories in anticipation of higher shipment volumes in future periods, a decrease in accounts payables of $5.9 million resulting from lower inventory receipts in the last month of the third quarter of 2010 compared to the last month of the fourth quarter of 2009, and an increase in accrued liabilities of $2.7 million primarily due to an increase in employee compensation, legal fees related to our efforts to acquire Occam partially offset by a decrease in accrued customer rebates. 34 Table of Contents Investing Activities Our cash used in investing activities in the nine months ended September 24, 2011 primarily consisted of our acquisition of Occam for $60.8 million, net of $33.6 million of Occam cash assumed in the transaction, and capital expenditures of $6.3 million, partially offset by maturities of marketable securities of $29.8 million. Our cash used in investing activities in the nine months ended September 25, 2010 consisted of capital expenditures of $3.9 million, the purchase of marketable securities of $74.6 million, which primarily included highly liquid debt instruments and certificates of deposit, offset by sales and maturities of marketable securities of $36.1 million. Financing Activities Our cash used in financing activities of $7.5 million in the nine months ended September 24, 2011, primarily consisted of payment of payroll taxes for the vesting of restricted stock units of $10.4 million, offset by proceeds of $2.1 million from the issuance of common stock under the employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) and proceeds of $0.8 million from the exercise of stock options. Our financing activities provided cash of $37.4 million in the nine months ended September 25, 2010, which primarily consisted of net proceeds of $57.3 million from our IPO offset by the repayment of a term loan of $20.0 million. On May 4, 2010, we paid the outstanding loan payable to SVB of $20.0 million in its entirety including outstanding accrued interest and prepayment penalties of $0.4 million. Working Capital and Capital Expenditure Needs We currently have no material cash commitments, except for normal recurring trade payables, expense accruals, operating leases and firm purchase commitments. In addition, we do not currently anticipate significant investment in property, plant and equipment, and we believe that our outsourced approach to manufacturing provides us significant flexibility in both managing inventory levels and financing our inventory. We may be required to issue performance bonds to satisfy requirements under our RUS-funded contracts. We issue letters of credit under our existing credit facility to support these performance bonds. In the event we do not have sufficient capacity under our credit facility to support these bonds, we will have to purchase certificates of deposit, which could materially impact our working capital or limit our ability to satisfy such contract requirements. At September 24, 2011, we have cash of $1.1 million restricted for the issuance of surety performance bonds we acquired through our acquisition of Occam. There were no restrictions on our cash at December 31, 2010. In the event that our revenue plan does not meet our expectations, we may eliminate or curtail expenditures to mitigate the impact on our working capital. We believe based on our current operating plan, our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and existing amounts available under our revolving line will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the acquisition of new capabilities or technologies, the continued market acceptance of our products and the cost of integration of our recent acquisition of Occam. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at September 24, 2011 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 4-5 Years More Than 5 years Operating lease obligations $ 9,418 $ 841 $ 6,981 $ 1,569 $ 27 Firm purchase commitments(1) 4,668 4,668 Total $ 14,086 $ 5,509 $ 6,981 $ 1,569 $ 27 (1) In connection with our acquisition of Occam, under the terms of the agreement with certain contract manufacturers, we have issued purchase orders for the production of our products. We are required to place orders in advance with our contract manufacturers to meet estimated sales demands. Future amounts payable to the contract manufacturers will vary based on the level of requirements. 35 Table of Contents Future minimum lease payments under our lease for our primary office space in Petaluma, California and in Minneapolis, Minnesota, Acton, Massachusetts, Richardson, Texas and Nanjing, China, are disclosed in the table above. The above table also includes future minimum lease payments for our facilities in Fremont, Santa Barbara, and Simi Valley, California, and for certain equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements, related to our acquisition of Occam, which expire at various dates through 2015. In February 2009, we entered into a new lease agreement for our primary office in Petaluma that expires in February 2014. We received a lease incentive consisting of $1.2 million in leasehold improvements provided by our lessor. We have capitalized the full amount of the lease incentive and are amortizing the cost of the improvements over the lease term. Our lease in Minneapolis expires in March 2014, our lease in Acton expires in June 2016, our lease in Richardson expires in October 2014 and our lease in Nanjing expires in February 2016. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 24, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other that will allow an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. Under these amendments, an entity would not be required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. The amendments include a number of events and circumstances for an entity to consider in conducting the qualitative assessment. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 with early adoption permitted. We do not expect that the adoption of this update will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements at this time. In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income that improves the comparability, consistency, and transparency of financial reporting and increases the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income by eliminating the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders equity. The amendments in this standard require that all non-owner changes in stockholders equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. Under either method, adjustments must be displayed for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income (OCI) to net income, in both net income and OCI. The standard does not change the current option for presenting components of OCI gross or net of the effect of income taxes, provided that such tax effects are presented in the statement in which OCI is presented or disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. Additionally, the standard does not affect the calculation or reporting of earnings per share. For public entities, the amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011 and are to be applied retrospectively, with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04 which amends U.S. GAAP to conform to the measurement and disclosure requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The amendments in this Update change the wording used to describe the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amendments include the following: 1. Those that clarify the Boards intent about the application of existing fair value measurement and disclosure requirements 2. Those that change a particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. In addition, to improve consistency in application across jurisdictions some changes in wording were made to ensure that U.S. GAAP and IFRS fair value measurement and disclosure requirements are described in the same way (for example, using the word shall rather than should to describe the requirements in U.S. GAAP). The amendments in this Update are to be applied prospectively and are effective during interim and annual period beginning after December 15, 2011. We will evaluate the requirements and do not believe that the adoption of this update will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements at this time. In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-29, Business Combinations (ASC Topic 805): Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations. The amendments in this update specify that if a public 36 Table of Contents entity presents comparative financial statements, the entity should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. The amendments in this update also expand the supplemental pro forma disclosures under Topic 805 to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination included in the reported pro forma revenue and earnings. The amendments in this update are effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010. We do not believe that the adoption of this updated disclosure requirement will have a material impact to our 2011 annual report on Form 10-K.