ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items, any statement of the plans and objectives of management for future operations, any statements concerning proposed new products or licensing, any statements regarding product development, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, and any statement of assumptions underlying any of the above. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expects, plans, anticipates, estimates, potential, or continue or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the Risk Factors set forth under Part II, Item 1A below, and for the reasons described elsewhere in this report. All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this report are made as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or reasons why actual results might differ. Overview We are a leading global provider of broadband communications access systems and software for fiber- and copper-based network architectures that enable communications service providers to connect to their residential and business subscribers. We enable CSPs to provide a wide range of revenue-generating services, from basic voice and data to advanced broadband services, over legacy and next-generation access networks. We focus solely on CSP access networks, the portion of the network that governs available bandwidth and determines the range and quality of services that can be offered to subscribers. We develop and sell carrier-class hardware and software products, which we refer to as the Unified Access portfolio, that are designed to enhance and transform CSP access networks to meet the changing demands of subscribers rapidly and cost-effectively. We market our access systems and software to CSPs globally through our direct sales force as well as a growing number of resellers. At the end of the first quarter of 2015, approximately 20 million ports of our Unified Access portfolio have been deployed at a growing number of CSPs worldwide, whose networks serve over 100 million subscriber lines in total. Our customers include many of the world's largest communications providers. In addition, we have over 1,000 customers who have deployed gigabit passive optical network, Active Ethernet and point-to-point Ethernet fiber access networks. Our revenue was $91.0 million for the three months ended March 28, 2015 , compared to $85.8 million for the three months ended March 29, 2014 . During the first quarter of 2015, we experienced results in line with our expectations. Continued revenue growth will depend on our ability to continue to sell our access systems and software to existing customers and to attract new customers, including in particular, large CSPs and customers in international markets. For the three months ended March 28, 2015 , we had a net loss of $11.9 million . Our net loss was $10.0 million for the three months ended March 29, 2014 . Since our inception we have incurred significant losses and, as of March 28, 2015 , we had an accumulated deficit of $542.5 million . Revenue fluctuations result from many factors, including but not limited to: increases or decreases in customer orders for our products and services, customer purchase agreements with provisions that delay revenue recognition, varying budget cycles and seasonal buying patterns of our customers. More specifically, our customers tend to spend less in the first fiscal quarter as they are finalizing their annual budgets and in many cases, are also challenged by winter weather conditions that inhibit fiber deployment in the outside plant. As of March 28, 2015 , our deferred revenue of $28.5 million primarily included extended warranty services contracts that are recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, as well as certain contracts with customers who receive government-supported loans and grants under programs like American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (" ARRA") and U.S. Department of Agricultures Rural Utility Service (RUS) that require installation services. The timing of deferred recognition may cause significant fluctuations in our revenue and operating results from period to period. The revenue generated from ARRA contracts is expected to decline in 2015 as those projects are expected to reach completion by June 30, 2015. Cost of revenue is strongly correlated to revenue and will tend to fluctuate from all of the above factors that could impact revenue. Other factors that impact cost of revenue include: changes in the mix of products and services delivered, customer type and location, changes in the cost of our inventory and inventory write-downs. Cost of revenue includes fixed expenses related to our internal operations, which could impact our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue if there are large sequential fluctuations to revenue. Our gross profit and gross margin have been, and will likely continue to be, impacted by several factors, including new product introduction or upgrades to existing products, changes in customer mix, changes in the mix of products and services demanded and sold (and any related write-downs of existing inventory), shipment volumes, changes in our product costs, changes in pricing and the extent of customer rebates and incentive programs. Our gross margin could increase due to favorable changes in these factors, for example, increases in sales of our advanced E-Series Ethernet service access platforms, new introductions of our P-Series optical network terminals and reductions in the impact of rebate or similar programs. Our gross margin could decrease due to unfavorable changes in factors such as increased product costs, pricing decreases due to competitive pressure and unfavorable customer or product mix. Changes in these factors could have a material impact on our future average selling prices and unit costs. The timing of deferred revenue recognition and related deferred costs could also have a material impact on our gross profit and gross margin results. The timing of recognition and the relative size of these arrangements could cause large fluctuations in our gross profit from period to period. Additionally, our gross margin could be impacted by inventory write-downs. 17 Table of Contents Our operating expenses have fluctuated based on the following factors: hiring, timing of variable compensation expenses due to fluctuations in order volumes, timing of salary increases which have historically occurred in the second quarter, timing of bonus expenses due to changes in the Companys performance, timing of research and development expenses including prototype builds and intermittent outsourced development projects, and timing of legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with Occam litigation . We have incurred increased compensation costs due to the additional sales headcount. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase in absolute dollar amounts but will decline as a percentage of revenue over time. As a result of the fluctuations described above and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, our quarterly operating results fluctuate from period to period. Comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates and judgments that can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. Management bases its estimates, assumptions and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. Our management evaluates its estimates, assumptions and judgments on an ongoing basis. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are described under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 . During the three months ended March 28, 2015 , there have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which provides guidance for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, and most industry-specific guidance. Additionally, it supersedes some cost guidance included in Subtopic 605-35, Revenue Recognition-Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts, and creates new Subtopic 340-40, Other Assets and Deferred Costs-Contracts with Customers. The standards core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In doing so, companies will need to use more judgment and make more estimates than under the previous guidance. These may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. The standard will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Early adoption is not permitted. The FASB has indicated that there may be certain future changes to the revenue guidance which could impact the timing of adoption and, on April 29, 2015, the FASB issued an exposure draft proposing the deferral of the effective date by one year. The Company is currently assessing the potential impact on its financial statements from adopting this new guidance. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 28, 2015 and March 29, 2014 Revenue The following table sets forth our revenue (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 28, 2015 March 29, 2014 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Revenue $ 91,038 $ 85,820 $ 5,218 6 % Our revenue increased to $91.0 million for the three months ended March 28, 2015 , from $85.8 million for the three months ended March 29, 2014 . During the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period last year, we experienced stronger bookings and shipments across all territories due to increased customer demand. We also recognized additional revenue derived from contracts funded by the Broadband Stimulus Programs under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("BBS") as we received project acceptance from our customers. Our revenue is principally derived in the United States. During the three months ended March 28, 2015 , revenue generated in the United States was $80.9 million and represented approximately 89% of our total revenue, compared to $75.2 million or 88% of our total revenue for the same period in 2014. International revenue was $10.1 million or 11% of our total revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to $10.6 million or 12% of our total revenue for the same period in 2014. We had one 10% customer again this quarter. 18 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The following table sets forth our cost of revenue (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 28, 2015 March 29, 2014 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Cost of revenue: Products and services $ 46,460 $ 46,806 $ (346 ) (1 )% Amortization of intangible assets 2,088 2,088 % Total cost of revenue $ 48,548 $ 48,894 $ (346 ) (1 )% Gross profit $ 42,490 $ 36,926 $ 5,564 15 % Gross margin 47 % 43 % The decrease in cost of revenue of $0.3 million during the three months ended March 28, 2015 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2014 was due to a decrease in hardware cost of sales attributed to a favorable product mix and a decrease in inventory write-downs. In the first quarter of 2015, we wrote-down $1.0 million of our inventory. During the same period of fiscal 2014, we wrote-down $1.3 million of inventory. The inventory write-downs in our most current period related primarily to lower than anticipated growth in sales of products we acquired from Ericsson in November 2012 for sale in international markets outside of North America. The inventory write-downs for the three months ended March 29, 2014 related to these Ericsson products as well as other write-downs for other slow moving inventory for sale in North American markets. The amortization of intangible assets remained at the same level. Including amortization of intangible assets, gross margin increased to 47% during the three months ended March 28, 2015 , from 43% during the corresponding period of fiscal 2014. The increase in gross margin during the three months ended March 28, 2015 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2014 was primarily due to an increase in product and customer mix margin and higher revenues. The amortization of intangible assets remained at the same level. We expect to have lower levels of inventory write-downs in future periods, and as a result we do not expect that our gross margin in future periods would be significantly impacted. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses The following table sets forth our research and development expenses (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 28, 2015 March 29, 2014 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Research and development $ 21,914 $ 19,630 $ 2,284 12 % Percent of total revenue 24 % 23 % The increase in research and development expenses of $2.3 million during the three months ended March 28, 2015 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2014 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and employee benefits of $2.1 million. We increased our research and development work force by hiring new employees which led to an increase in compensation for the first quarter of 2015 compared to the same period of 2014. We are continuing our strategic investments in our Unified Access portfolio. We intend to continue to dedicate significant resources to research and development and to develop new product capabilities to support the performance, scalability and management of our Unified Access portfolio. We expect to continue to incur research and development expenses in connection with our new and existing products and our expansion into international markets. Sales and Marketing Expenses The following table sets forth our sales and marketing expenses (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 28, 2015 March 29, 2014 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Sales and marketing $ 19,759 $ 17,390 $ 2,369 14 % Percent of total revenue 22 % 20 % 19 Table of Contents The increase in sales and marketing expenses during the three ended March 28, 2015 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2014 was primarily due to a $2.4 million increase in compensation and employee benefits. This was due to increased headcount resulting from the hiring of additional employees in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014, in order to support our domestic and international expansion. Additionally, commission payouts were higher as shipments were higher compared to the same period last year. We will continue our investments in sales and marketing in order to extend our market reach and grow our business in support of our key strategic initiatives. General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth our general and administrative expenses (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 28, 2015 March 29, 2014 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent General and administrative $ 10,152 $ 7,251 $ 2,901 40 % Percent of total revenue 11 % 8 % The increase in general and administrative expenses of $2.9 million during the three months ended March 28, 2015 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2014 was primarily due to a $2.7 million increase in consulting and other professional services mainly relating to $1.9 million of Occam litigation related legal fees and expenses not reimbursable under our existing Directors & Officers liability insurance coverage. Additionally, our compensation and employee benefits also increased by $0.3 million mainly relating to increases in headcount. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation of $0.2 million mainly due to executive equity awards that completed vesting in 2014. Provision for Income Taxes The following table sets forth our provision for income taxes (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 28, 2015 March 29, 2014 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Provision for income taxes $ 91 $ 110 $ (19 ) (17 )% Effective tax rate (0.8 )% (1.1 )% The income tax provision for the first three months of 2015 consisted primarily of foreign income taxes. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 28, 2015 was determined using an estimated annual effective tax rate adjusted for discrete items, if any, that occurred in the quarter. The Companys effective tax rate for the first three months of 2015 is impacted by the change in valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and foreign income tax expense . The income tax provision for the first three months of 2014 primarily consisted of state and foreign income taxes. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 29, 2014 was determined by estimating the tax provision using the discrete method provided in ASC Topic740. The discrete method was used because of unpredictable trends in the Companys U.S. net income or loss position. The Companys effective tax rate for the first three months of 2014 was impacted by the change in valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and state income tax expense . ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, ("ASC Topic 740"), provides for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. The Company has established and continues to maintain a full valuation allowance against its net deferred tax assets, with the exception of certain foreign deferred tax assets, as the Company does not believe that realization of those foreign assets is more likely than not . Our effective tax rate may be subject to fluctuation during the year as new information is obtained, which may affect the assumptions used to estimate the annual effective tax rate, including factors such as the mix of forecasted pre-tax earnings in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, the recognition or de-recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions, and changes in or the interpretation of tax laws in jurisdictions where we conduct business . Liquidity and Capital Resources We have funded our operations and investing activities primarily through cash generated from operations. At March 28, 2015 , we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $97.8 million , which consisted of deposits held at banks, money market mutual funds held at major financial institutions and highly liquid debt instruments. This includes $3.7 million of cash held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest our earnings outside the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate the foreign cash to fund our U.S. operations. 20 Table of Contents Operating Activities Net cash used in operations of $11.9 million in the three months ended March 28, 2015 consisted of a net loss of $11.9 million and a $11.1 million of cash flow decreases reflected in the net change in assets and liabilities, partially offset by a $11.1 million of non-cash charges. Cash flow decreases resulting from the net change in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $10.8 million decrease in accounts payable due to payments to our manufacturers, a $8.3 million increase in accounts receivable, and a $0.4 million net decrease in deferred revenue and deferred cost of revenue due to RUS-funded contracts and BBS contracts recognized in the first quarter, partially offset by a $6.1 million decrease in inventories primarily due to higher inventory turnover, a $2.0 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets, and a release of $0.3 million restricted cash previously used to collateralize outstanding letters of credit with Silicon Valley Bank. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $4.6 million of amortization of intangible assets, $3.7 million of stock-based compensation, $2.5 million of depreciation and amortization and $0.3 million of amortization of premiums related to available-for-sale securities. Net cash used in operations of $5.2 million in the three months ended March 29, 2014 consisted of a net loss of $10.0 million and a $6.0 million of cash flow decreases reflected in the net change in assets and liabilities, partially offset by a $10.8 million of non-cash charges. Cash flow decreases resulting from the net change in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $12.3 million decrease in accounts payable due to payments to our manufacturers, a $2.6 million net decrease in deferred revenue and deferred cost of revenue as a result of certain RUS-funded contracts recognized during the quarter and a $0.6 million increase in accounts receivable, partially offset by a $6.0 million decrease in inventories due to absorption of the in-transit inventory in our books in December 2013, a $2.5 million increase in accrued liabilities primarily due to the timing of our sales commissions payout and a $1.0 million decrease in prepaids and other current assets. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $4.6 million of amortization of intangible assets, $3.9 million of stock-based compensation, and $2.3 million of depreciation and amortization. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $7.3 million in the three months ended March 28, 2015 consisted of $5.6 million in net purchases of marketable securities, which provide higher yields than money market funds, and $1.7 million in capital expenditures for purchases of test equipment, computer equipment and software. Our cash used in investing activities of $1.9 million in the three months ended March 29, 2014 consisted of capital expenditures primarily as a result of leasehold improvements, purchases of test equipment, computer equipment and software. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $0.1 million in the three months ended March 28, 2015 consisted of $0.6 million in proceeds from stock option exercises, partially offset by $0.5 million in stock withheld for employee payroll taxes due upon the vesting of awards under equity incentive plans. Net cash used in financing activities of $0.5 million in the three months ended March 29, 2014 consisted of $0.5 million in stock withheld for employee payroll taxes due upon the vesting of awards under equity incentive plans. Working Capital and Capital Expenditure Needs We currently have no material cash commitments, except for normal recurring trade payables, expense accruals, operating leases and non-cancelable firm purchase commitments. In addition, we believe that our outsourced approach to manufacturing provides us significant flexibility in both managing inventory levels and financing our inventory. In the event that our revenue plan does not meet our expectations, we may eliminate or curtail expenditures to mitigate the impact on our working capital. We have a credit facility with an aggregate principal amount of up to $50.0 million . The credit facility matures in July 2016, but may be extended up to two times (each extension for an additional one-year period) upon mutual agreement with the Lenders. Proceeds of the credit facility may be used for general corporate purposes and permitted acquisitions. As of March 28, 2015 , there was $50.0 million available for borrowing under this credit facility. We believe based on our current operating plan, our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and amounts available under our credit facility will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the acquisition of new capabilities or technologies and the continued market acceptance of our products. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The Companys principal commitments consist of obligations under operating leases for office space and non-cancelable outstanding purchase obligations. These commitments are disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 , and have not changed materially during the three months ended March 28, 2015 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 28, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 21 Table of Contents