ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items, any statement of the plans and objectives of management for future operations, any statements concerning proposed new products or licensing, any statements regarding product development, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, and any statement of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expects, plans, anticipates, estimates, potential, or continue or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the Risk Factors set forth under Part II, Item 1A below, and for the reasons described elsewhere in this report. All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this report are made as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or reasons why actual results might differ. 13 Table of Contents Overview We are a leading provider in North America of broadband communications access systems and software for fiber- and copper-based network architectures that enable communications service providers to connect to their residential and business subscribers. We enable CSPs to provide a wide range of revenue-generating services, from basic voice and data to advanced broadband services, over legacy and next-generation access networks. We focus solely on CSP access networks, the portion of the network that governs available bandwidth and determines the range and quality of services that can be offered to subscribers. We develop and sell carrier-class hardware and software products, which is referred to as the Unified Access portfolio that are designed to enhance and transform CSP access networks to meet the changing demands of subscribers rapidly and cost-effectively. We market our access systems and software to CSPs globally through our direct sales force as well as a limited number of resellers. As of December 31, 2012, over sixteen million ports of our Unified Access portfolio have been deployed at more than 1,150 CSPs worldwide, whose networks serve over 100 million subscriber lines in total. Our customers include many of the world's largest communications providers. In addition, we have over 425 commercial video customers and have enabled over 750 customers to deploy gigabit passive optical network, Active Ethernet and point-to-point Ethernet fiber access networks. Our revenue increased to $90.5 million for the three months ended March 30, 2013 , from $78.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . During the first half of 2012, we experienced softness in our business due to lower demand across multiple customer markets, which was due to a slowdown in capital expenditures by service providers increasingly concerned about macro-economic conditions and uncertainties associated with the implementation of regulatory reforms. However, beginning in the second half of 2012 we experienced steady improvement that carried over into the first quarter of 2013. Continued revenue growth will depend on our ability to continue to sell our access systems and software to existing customers and to attract new customers, including in particular, those customers in the large CSP and international markets. Additionally, we expect that our acquisition of Ericsson's fiber access assets will have a positive impact to revenue in 2013 and beyond. Since our inception, we have incurred significant losses, and as of March 30, 2013 , we had an accumulated deficit of $498.7 million . Our net loss was $6.2 million and $7.5 million for the three months ended March 30, 2013 and March 31, 2012 , respectively. Revenue fluctuations result from many factors, including but not limited to: increases or decreases in customer orders for our products and services, large customer purchase agreements with delayed revenue recognition, varying budget cycles and seasonal buying patterns of our customers. More specifically, our customers tend to spend less in the first fiscal quarter as they are finalizing their annual budgets. Customers typically purchase more products during our second and third fiscal quarters. Finally, in our fourth fiscal quarter, customer purchases typically increase as they are attempting to spend the rest of their budget for the year. As of March 30, 2013 , our deferred revenue of $65.5 million primarily included certain contracts with customers who receive government supported loans and grants from the U.S. Department of Agricultures Rural Utility Service (RUS) that require installation services, as well as extended warranty services contracts that are recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed. The timing of deferred recognition may cause significant fluctuations in our revenue and operating results from period to period. Cost of revenue is strongly correlated to revenue and will tend to fluctuate from all of the aforementioned factors that could impact revenue. Other factors that impact cost of revenue include changes in the mix of products and services delivered to our customers and changes in the cost of our inventory. Cost of revenue includes fixed expenses related to our internal operations, which could impact our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue, if there are large sequential fluctuations to revenue. Our gross profit and gross margin have been, and will likely be, impacted by several factors, including new product introduction or upgrades to existing products, changes in customer mix, changes in the mix of products and services demanded and sold, shipment volumes, changes in our product costs, changes in pricing and the extent of customer rebates and incentive programs. We believe our gross margin could increase due to favorable changes in these factors, for example, increases in sales of our advanced E-Series Ethernet service access platforms, upgrades to our C7 platform, new introductions of our P-Series optical network terminals and reductions in the impact of rebate or similar programs. We believe our gross margin could decrease due to unfavorable changes in factors such as increased product costs, pricing decreases due to competitive pressure and an unfavorable customer or product mix. Changes in these factors could have a material impact on our future average selling prices and unit costs. Also, the timing of deferred revenue recognition and related deferred costs can have a material impact on our gross profit and gross margin results. The timing of recognition and the relative size of these arrangements could cause large fluctuations in our gross profit from period to period. Our operating expenses have fluctuated based on the following factors: timing of variable compensation expenses due to fluctuations in order volumes, timing of salary increases which have historically occurred in the second quarter, timing of bonus accrual due to changes in the Companys performance, timing of research and development expenses including prototype builds and intermittent outsourced development projects. As a result of the acquisition of Ericsson's fiber access assets in November 2012, we have also incurred increased compensation costs in research and development due to the additional headcount and increased facility related costs. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase in absolute dollar amounts but will decline as a percentage of revenue over time. As a result of the fluctuations described above and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, our quarterly operating results fluctuate from period to period. Comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates and judgments that can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. Management bases its estimates, 14 Table of Contents assumptions and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. Our management evaluates its estimates, assumptions and judgments on an ongoing basis. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are described under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. During the three months ended March 30, 2013 , there have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2013, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2013-02, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, to improve the reporting of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income. ASU 2013-02 requires an entity to report the effect of significant reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the respective line items in net income if the amount being reclassified is required under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified in its entirety to net income. For other amounts that are not required under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety from accumulated other comprehensive income to net income in the same reporting period, an entity is required to cross-reference other disclosures required under U.S. GAAP that provide additional detail about those amounts. ASU 2013-02 is effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2013 and should be applied prospectively. Other than requiring additional disclosures, adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on our financial statements. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 30, 2013 and March 31, 2012 Revenue The following table sets forth our revenue: Three Months Ended March 30, 2013 March 31, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 90,548 $ 78,565 $ 11,983 15 % Revenue increased by $12.0 million, or 15%, during the three months ended March 30, 2013 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2012, primarily due to an increase in shipment volume resulting from improved macro-economic conditions and our continuous effort to expand our international footprint. Our revenue is principally derived in the United States. During the three months ended March 30, 2013 and March 31, 2012 , revenue generated in the United States represented approximately 86% and 93% of total revenue, respectively. We expect that our international revenue will continue to grow as we continue our expansion into the international markets. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The following table sets forth our cost of revenue: Three Months Ended March 30, 2013 March 31, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue: Products and services $ 47,345 $ 43,471 $ 3,874 9 % Amortization of intangible assets 2,088 1,275 813 64 % Total cost of revenue $ 49,433 $ 44,746 $ 4,687 10 % Gross profit $ 41,115 $ 33,819 $ 7,296 22 % Gross margin 45 % 43 % Cost of revenue increased by $4.7 million, or 10%, during the three months ended March 30, 2013 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2012. The $3.9 million increase in products and services cost was primarily related to increased revenue and a $0.9 million increase in charges for excess and obsolete inventory held at our contract manufacturers. The $0.8 million increase in amortization of intangible assets resulted from core developed technology that began amortizing in the second quarter of 2012 as further discussed below. In connection with the acquisition of Occam in 2011, we acquired $16.3 million of in-process technology. At the end of the first quarter of 2012, upon the completion of the research and development efforts associated with the in-process technology, we determined that this 15 Table of Contents technology had a useful life of 5 years and therefore reclassified it as core developed technology and began amortizing the intangible asset to cost of revenue during the second quarter of 2012. Gross margin increased during the three months ended March 30, 2013 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2012. Excluding amortization of intangible assets, gross margin increased to 48% during the three months ended March 30, 2013 from 45% during the corresponding period of fiscal 2012, primarily due to a combination of product mix and cost reductions. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses The following table sets forth our research and development expenses: Three Months Ended March 30, 2013 March 31, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 20,171 $ 16,966 $ 3,205 19 % Percent of total revenue 22 % 22 % Research and development expenses increased by $3.2 million, or 19%, during the three months ended March 30, 2013 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2012, primarily due to a $2.4 million increase in compensation and employee benefits expenses due to increased headcount resulting from our acquisition of Ericsson's fiber access assets in November 2012, a $0.9 million increase in depreciation and facility related costs as a result of the additional equipment that was acquired from Ericsson in November 2012 and entry into a lease for office space in San Jose in November 2012. We are continuing our strategic investments in our Unified Access portfolio. We intend to continue to dedicate significant resources to research and development and to develop new product capabilities to support the performance, scalability and management of our Unified Access portfolio. Sales and Marketing Expenses The following table sets forth our sales and marketing expenses: Three Months Ended March 30, 2013 March 31, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 15,801 $ 14,890 $ 911 6 % Percent of total revenue 17 % 19 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $0.9 million, or 6%, during the three months ended March 30, 2013 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2012, primarily due to a $0.8 million increase in compensation and employee benefits related costs driven by an increase in headcount resulting from the hiring of additional employees to pursue our international expansion. We will continue our investments in sales and marketing in order to extend our market reach and grow our business in support of our key strategic initiatives. General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth our general and administrative expenses: Three Months Ended March 30, 2013 March 31, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 8,131 $ 6,780 $ 1,351 20 % Percent of total revenue 9 % 9 % General and administrative expenses increased by $1.4 million, or 20%, during the three months ended March 30, 2013 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2012, primarily due to a $0.6 million increase in professional and consulting service expenses resulting from increased legal and audit fees, a $0.5 million increase in compensation-related and other employee costs primarily resulting from stock 16 Table of Contents awards granted after the first quarter of 2012 and increased headcount, and a $0.2 million increase in depreciation and facility related costs primarily as a result of the new San Jose office that we started leasing in November 2012. Provision for Income Taxes The following table sets forth our provision for income taxes: Three Months Ended March 30, 2013 March 31, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 357 $ 95 $ 262 276 % Effective tax rate (6.1 )% (1.3 )% For the three months ended March 30, 2013 and March 31, 2012, we recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.4 million and $0.1 million representing effective tax rates of -6.1% and -1.3%, respectively. The effective tax rates differ from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 34% due primarily to the tax affected changes in the valuation allowance against the Company's deferred tax assets. ASC Topic 740 provides for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. The Company has established and continues to maintain a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets with the exception of certain foreign deferred tax assets as we do not believe that realization of those assets is more likely than not. As of March 30, 2013, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits of $13.5 million , of which $0.1 million would affect the Company's effective tax rate if recognized. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits of $13.2 million , of which $0.1 million would affect the Company's effective tax rate if recognized. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have funded our operations and investing activities primarily through cash generated from operations and the 2010 initial public offering of our common stock. At March 30, 2013 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $48.1 million , which consisted of deposits held at banks and money market mutual funds held at major financial institutions. We also have a revolving credit facility of $30.0 million based upon a percentage of eligible accounts receivable. Included in the revolving line are amounts available under letters of credit and cash management services. We are required to pay commitment fees of 0.25% per year on any unused portions of the facility. Any outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility bear a variable rate of interest based upon the applicable LIBOR or PRIME rate, which is adjusted based on our leverage ratio. The revolving credit facility matures on June 30, 2013. We intend to obtain a similar revolving credit facility after the current one expires. Operating Activities Our operating activities provided cash of $2.4 million and $13.5 million in the three months ended March 30, 2013 and March 31, 2012 , respectively. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was due to a $15.1 million decrease in changes in operating assets and liabilities, offset by a favorable change of $4.0 million in our operating results after adjustment of non-cash charges. In the three months ended March 30, 2013 , non-cash charges were $12.8 million (the majority of which consist of depreciation and amortization expense and stock-based compensation expense). Cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included primarily an $11.2 million increase in net accounts receivable due to the timing of shipments, a $5.3 million increase in deferred cost of revenue primarily related to the increased deferred revenue from certain RUS-funded contracts, and a $3.1 million decrease in accounts payable due to the timing of inventory receipts and payments. Cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily resulted from a $10.4 million increase in deferred revenue as a result of increased shipments relating to certain RUS-funded contracts and a $4.1 million decrease in inventory due to improved inventory management. Our operating activities provided cash of $13.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2012. This resulted primarily from non-cash charges of $10.1 million (the majority of which consist of stock-based compensation expense and depreciation and amortization expense) and positive net changes in operating assets and liabilities, largely offset by our net loss of $7.5 million. Cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included a net decrease of $0.6 million in prepaid expenses and other assets due to the utilization of these assets, $7.7 million related to the sell through of inventory, and an increase in deferred revenue of $4.8 million. Cash outflows from operating activities primarily consisted of an increase in deferred cost of revenue of $1.3 million. Investing Activities Our cash used in investing activities in the three months ended March 30, 2013 consisted of capital expenditures of $1.3 million primarily as a result of purchases of test equipment, computer equipment and software. Our cash used in investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2012 consisted of capital expenditures of $3.0 million. 17 Table of Contents Financing Activities Our financing activities provided cash of $42 thousand in the three months ended March 30, 2013 , which consisted of proceeds from the exercise of stock options by our employees. Our financing activities provided cash of $0.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2012, which consisted of proceeds from the exercise of stock options by our employees. Working Capital and Capital Expenditure Needs We currently have no material cash commitments, except for normal recurring trade payables, expense accruals, operating leases and firm purchase commitments. In addition, we believe that our outsourced approach to manufacturing provides us significant flexibility in both managing inventory levels and financing our inventory. As of March 30, 2013 , we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $2.4 million and there was approximately $27.5 million available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility. At March 30, 2013 , there were no restrictions on our cash. In the event that our revenue plan does not meet our expectations, we may eliminate or curtail expenditures to mitigate the impact on our working capital. We believe based on our current operating plan, our existing cash, cash equivalents and existing amounts available under our revolving line of credit will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the acquisition of new capabilities or technologies and the continued market acceptance of our products. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The Companys principal commitments consist of obligations under operating leases for office space and non-cancelable outstanding purchase obligations. These commitments as of December 31, 2012 are disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, and have not changed materially during the three months ended March 30, 2013 except for the following agreement entered into during the first quarter of 2013. On January 28, 2013, we entered into an amendment to the lease agreement (the "Amendment") for our primary office space in Petaluma, California, to extend the lease term from February 2014 to February 2019 under a new base rent schedule effective February 1, 2013. The total minimum future payment commitment under this Amendment is $5.6 million. In connection with this Amendment, we received a lease incentive consisting of $0.4 million that can be used for leasehold improvements or be applied as credits to rent payments. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.