Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items, any statement of the plans and objectives of management for future operations, any statements concerning proposed new products or licensing, any statements regarding product development, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, and any statement of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expects, plans, anticipates, estimates, potential, or continue or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the Risk Factors set forth under Part II, Item 1A below, and for the reasons described elsewhere in this report. All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this report are made as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or reasons why actual results might differ. Overview We are a leading provider in North America of broadband communications access systems and software for fiber- and copper-based network architectures that enable communications service providers, or CSPs, to connect to their residential and business subscribers. We enable CSPs to provide a wide range of revenue-generating services, from basic voice and data to advanced broadband services, over legacy and next-generation access networks. We focus solely on CSP access networks, the portion of the network which governs available bandwidth and determines the range and quality of services that can be offered to subscribers. We develop and sell carrier-class hardware and software products, which is referred to as the Unified Access portfolio that are designed to enhance and transform CSP access networks to meet the changing demands of subscribers rapidly and cost-effectively. We market our access systems and software to CSPs globally through our direct sales force as well as a limited number of resellers. As of March 31, 2012, we have shipped over fourteen million ports of our Unified Access portfolio to more than 1000 customers worldwide, whose networks serve over 50 million subscriber lines in total. Our customers include 17 of the 20 largest U.S. Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers, or ILECs. In addition, we have over 400 commercial video customers and have enabled over 600 customers to deploy gigabit passive optical network, or GPON, Active Ethernet and point-to-point Ethernet fiber access networks. Our revenue has increased to $78.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012, from $71.5 million for the three months ended March 26, 2011. Continued revenue growth will depend on our ability to continue to sell our access systems and software to existing customers and to attract new customers, including in particular, those customers in the large CSP and international markets. Since our inception we have incurred significant losses, and as of March 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $471.6 million. Our net loss was $7.6 million and $22.8 million (which included merger-related and other expenses of $16.3 million) for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and March 26, 2011, respectively. Revenue fluctuations result from many factors, including but not limited to: increases or decreases in customer orders for our products and services, large customer purchase agreements with special revenue considerations, varying budget cycles for our customers and seasonal buying patterns of our customers. More specifically, our customers tend to spend less in the first fiscal quarter as they are finalizing their annual budgets. Customers then typically decide to purchase our products during our second fiscal quarter. In our third fiscal quarter, customers are in the process of deploying such products and as a result there is typically less spending. In addition, difficulties related to deploying products during the winter also tend to limit spending in the third quarter. Finally, in our fourth fiscal quarter, customer purchases typically increase as customers are attempting to spend the rest of their budget for the year. As of March 31, 2012, our deferred revenue primarily includes certain RUS contracts that include installation services, services, special customer arrangements and ratable recognized services totaling $34.2 million. The timing of deferred recognition may cause significant fluctuations in our revenue and operating results from period to period. Cost of revenue is strongly correlated to revenue and will tend to fluctuate from all of the aforementioned factors that could impact revenue. Other additional factors that impact cost of revenue include changes in the mix of products delivered to our customers and changes in the cost of our inventory. Cost of revenue includes fixed expenses related to our internal operations department which could impact our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue, if there are large sequential fluctuations to revenue. Our gross profit and gross margin have been, and will likely be, impacted by several factors, including new product introduction or upgrades to existing products, changes in customer mix, changes in the mix of products demanded and sold, shipment volumes, changes in our product costs, changes in pricing and the extent of customer rebates and incentive programs. We believe our gross 19 Table of Contents margin could increase due to favorable changes in these factors, for example, increases in sales of our advanced E series Ethernet service access platforms, upgrades to our C7 platform, new introductions of our P-Series optical network terminal and reductions in the impact of rebate or similar programs. We believe our gross margin could decrease due to unfavorable changes in factors such as increased product costs, pricing decreases due to competitive pressure and an unfavorable customer or product mix. Changes in these factors could have a material impact on our future average selling prices and unit costs. Also, the timing of deferred revenue recognition and related deferred costs can have a material impact on our gross profit and gross margin results. The timing of recognition and the relative size of these arrangements could cause large fluctuations in our gross profit from period to period. Our operating expenses have fluctuated based on the following factors: timing of variable sales compensation expenses due to fluctuations in order volumes, timing of salary increases which have historically occurred in the second quarter, timing of research and development expenses including prototype builds and intermittent outsourced development projects and increases in stock-based compensation expenses resulting from modifications to outstanding stock options. Our operating expenses for fiscal 2011, includes merger-related expenses and amortization of intangible assets from our acquisition of Occam as discussed in more detail below. As a result of the acquisition we have also incurred increased compensation costs across all operating expense categories due to additional headcount and increased facility related costs. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase in absolute dollar amounts but will decline as a percentage of revenue over time. As a result of the fluctuations described above and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, our quarterly operating results fluctuate from period to period. Comparing our operating results on a period to period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Acquisition of Occam Networks On February 22, 2011, we completed our acquisition of Occam Networks, Inc. (Occam), a provider of innovative broadband access products designed to enable telecom service providers to offer bundled voice, video and high speed internet, or Triple Play, services over both fiber optic and copper networks in a stock and cash transaction valued at approximately $213.1 million which consisted of $94.5 million of cash consideration and a value of $118.6 million of common stock and equity awards issued. Through this acquisition, we expect to achieve the strategic benefits of creating a more competitive and efficient company, more capable of competing against larger telecommunications equipment companies in more markets and significant cost synergies due to the combined company. The combined organization is expected to provide communications service providers globally with an enhanced portfolio of advanced broadband access systems, and accelerate innovation across the expanded Calix Unified Access portfolio. The acquisition is also expected to result in more access options over both fiber and copper for communications service providers to deploy, which could expedite the proliferation of advanced broadband services to both residential and business subscribers, including such services as high-speed Internet, IPTV, VOIP, Ethernet business services, and other advanced broadband applications. As a result of this acquisition, we recorded $50.6 million in goodwill and $97.7 million in other intangible assets. We are amortizing the definite-lived intangible assets over their useful lives. See Critical Accounting Policies and Use of EstimatesGoodwill and Intangible Assets below for information relating to these items and our test for impairment. Under purchase accounting rules, we revalued the acquired Occam assets and liabilities acquired at the time of the acquisition, based on their fair value. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates and judgments that can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. Management bases its estimates, assumptions and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. Our management evaluates its estimates, assumptions and judgments on an ongoing basis. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. Business Combination In a business combination, we record tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets acquired at their fair value. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. The fair values assigned to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities are based on valuations using management's best estimates and assumptions at the conclusion of the measurement period. During the measurement period (which is not to exceed one year from the acquisition date), we are required to retrospectively adjust the provisional assets or liabilities if new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have resulted in the recognition of those assets or liabilities as of that date. These assumptions and estimates include a market participant's use of the asset and the appropriate discount rates for a market participant. Our estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies. Our significant assumptions and estimates can include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is 20 Table of Contents expected to generate in the future, the appropriate weighted-average cost of capital, and the cost savings expected to be derived from acquiring an asset. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates. We finalized the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities from Occam as of June 25, 2011. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue primarily from the sale of hardware products and related software. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. We will generally use purchase agreement and/or purchase order as evidence of an arrangement. Since the individual products and services meet the criteria for separate units of accounting, we will recognize revenue upon delivery of each product and/or services. Post-sales software support revenue and extended warranty services revenue is deferred and recognized 21 Table of Contents ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed. Installation and training service arrangements are recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. These service arrangements are typically short term in nature and are largely completed shortly after delivery of the product. Revenue from package arrangements is recognized upon full delivery of the package. In instances where the Company determines that substantive acceptance provisions exist in the customer agreement, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction. Payment terms to customers predominantly range from net 30 to net 90 days. We assess the ability to collect from our customers based primarily on the creditworthiness and past payment history of the customer. Shipping charges billed to customers are included in revenue and the related shipping costs are included in cost of revenue. In certain cases, our products are sold along with services, which include installation, training, post-sales software support and/or extended warranty services. To date, service revenue has comprised an insignificant portion of our revenue, and we have not reported service revenue separately from product revenue in our financial statements. From time to time, we offer customers sales incentives, which include volume rebates and discounts. These amounts are accrued on a quarterly basis and recorded net of revenue. We adopted Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2009-13, Topic 605 Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements and ASU No. 2009-14, Topic 985 Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements on a prospective basis as of the beginning of 2010 for new and materially modified arrangements originating after December 31, 2009. Under the new standards, we allocate the total arrangement consideration to each separable element of an arrangement based on the relative selling price of each element. Our products and services qualify as separate units of accounting. Products are typically considered delivered upon shipment and are deemed to be non-contingent deliverables. We provide certain services at stated prices over a specified period of time and must meet specified performance conditions. As such, we have determined that our individual services are contingent deliverables. In addition, we provide specified packages of items considered a package arrangement which it also considers a contingent deliverable, and therefore we do not bill our customers until we have fully delivered the package. The amount of product and service revenue recognized in a given period is affected by the valuation of the units of accounting for multiple-element arrangements. We use vendor-specific objective evidence or VSOE of fair value for each of the units, when available. We have established VSOE for our training and post-sales software support services based on the normal pricing practices of these services when sold separately. In most instances, we are not able to establish VSOE for other deliverables in an arrangement with multiple elements. This may be due to infrequently selling each element separately, not pricing products within a narrow range, or only having a limited sales history. When VSOE cannot be established, we attempt to establish selling price of each element based on third party evidence or TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. Generally, our marketing strategy differs from that of our peers and our offerings contain a significant level of customization and differentiation such that the comparable pricing of products with similar functionality cannot be obtained. Furthermore, we are unable to reliably determine what similar competitor products' selling prices are on a stand-alone basis. Therefore, we typically are not able to determine TPE. When we are unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, we use the best estimate of selling price or "BSP". The objective of BSP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. We determine BSP for a product or service by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, geographies, market conditions, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives, characteristics of targeted customers and pricing practices. The determination of BSP is made through consultation with and formal approval by management, taking into consideration the go-to-market strategy. We regularly review VSOE, TPE and BSP and maintain internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates. There were no material impacts through March 31, 2012, nor do we expect a material impact in the near term from changes in VSOE, TPE or BSP. We enter into arrangements with certain of our customers who receive government supported loans and grants from the U.S. Department of Agricultures Rural Utility Service (RUS) to finance capital spending. Under the terms of an RUS equipment contract that includes installation services, the customer does not take possession and control and title does not pass until formal acceptance is obtained from the customer. Under this type of arrangement, we do not recognize revenue until we have received formal acceptance from the customer. For RUS arrangements that do not involve installation services, we recognize revenue in accordance with the revenue recognition policy described above. Stock-Based Compensation We adopted the applicable accounting guidance under ASC Topic 718 for share-based payment transactions using the modified prospective transition method. Under the fair value recognition provisions of this guidance, stock-based awards are recorded at fair value as of the grant date and recognized to expense over the employee's requisite service period (generally the vesting period), which we have elected to amortize on a straight-line basis. We estimate the fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. This model requires various highly judgmental assumptions, including volatility, expected forfeiture rates and expected option life, which have a significant impact on the fair value estimates. We derive our expected volatility based on our peer group of publicly-traded companies in the industry in which we do business. The expected life of an 22 Table of Contents option award is calculated using the "simplified" method provided in the SEC's Staff Accounting Bulletin 110, and takes into consideration the grant's contractual life and vesting periods. We value RSUs and RSAs at fair value or the market price of our common stock on the date of grant. During the three months ended March 31, 2012, we recorded stock-based compensation of $4.3 million. At March 31, 2012, we had $9.6 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options, net of estimated forfeitures. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average service period of approximately 3.0 years. At March 31, 2012, we had $30.3 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation cost related to restricted stock units, or RSUs (including performance restricted stock units), and restricted stock awards or RSAs, net of estimated forfeitures. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average service period of approximately 2.78 years. To the extent that the actual forfeiture rate is different than what we have anticipated, stock-based compensation related to these awards will be adjusted in future periods. The stock-based compensation expense decreased for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, primarily due to the completion of vesting of restricted stock units granted in a company-wide stock option exchange program which began amortizing at the date of our IPO on March 24, 2010 and were fully vested and amortized by April 2011. Inventory Valuation Inventory consisting of finished goods purchased from contract manufacturers is stated at the lower of cost, determined by the first-in, first-out method, or market value. We regularly monitor inventory quantities on-hand and record write-downs for excess and obsolete inventories based on our estimate of demand for our products, potential obsolescence of technology, product life cycles and whether pricing trends or forecasts indicate that the carrying value of inventory exceeds our estimated selling price. These factors are impacted by market and economic conditions, technology changes and new product introductions and require estimates that may include elements that are uncertain. Actual demand may differ from forecasted demand and may have a material effect on gross margins. If inventory is written down, a new cost basis is established that cannot be increased in future periods. The sale of previously reserved inventory has not had a material impact on our gross margins. 23 Table of Contents Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill is not amortized but instead is subject to an annual impairment test, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. We evaluate goodwill on an annual basis as of the end of the second quarter of each year. The test for goodwill impairment is a two-step process. The first step compares the fair value of each reporting unit with its respective carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered impaired and, therefore, the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. The second step, used to measure the amount of impairment loss, compares the implied fair value of each reporting unit's goodwill with the respective carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Management has determined that we operate as a single reporting unit and, therefore, evaluates goodwill impairment at the enterprise level. This goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes, and there have been no adjustments to goodwill since the applicable acquisition date. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally four to five years, and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an asset's carrying value may not be recoverable. We have reviewed events and changes to our business during the quarter and have determined that there was no impairment to goodwill and intangible assets. 24 Table of Contents Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 and March 26, 2011 Revenue The following table sets forth our revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 March 26, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 78,565 $ 71,470 $ 7,095 10 % Our revenue is principally derived in the United States. During the three months ended March 31, 2012 and March 26, 2011, revenue generated in the United States represented approximately 93% and 94%, respectively. Revenue increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2011, due to an increase in shipment volume across our customer base primarily as a result of the Occam acquisition. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The following table sets forth our costs of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 March 26, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue: Products and services $ 43,471 $ 39,308 $ 4,163 11 % Merger related expenses 10,257 (10,257 ) (100 )% Amortization of intangible assets 1,275 1,516 241 16 % Total cost of revenue $ 44,746 $ 51,081 $ (6,335 ) (12 )% Gross profit $ 33,819 $ 20,389 $ 13,430 66 % Gross margin 43.0 % 28.5 % Cost of revenues decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2011, primarily due to a decrease in merger-related expenses of $10.3 million as we did not incur any further merger related expenses subsequent to 2011. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in cost of product and service revenues of $4.2 million due to an increase in revenue recognized during this period. 25 Table of Contents Gross margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2012, primarily due to the absence of any merger related expenses and less acquisition related amortization expense of intangible assets when compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2011. Excluding merger-related expenses gross margin increased slightly during the first three months of fiscal 2012 from 42.9% to 43%. In connection with the acquisition of Occam, $30.3 million of the total purchase price was allocated to amortizable intangible assets which included core developed technologies, purchase order backlog and trade name and is being amortized to cost of revenue. In connection with the acquisition of OSI, $28.9 million of the total purchase price was allocated to amortizable intangible assets which also included existing and core developed technologies, and purchase order backlog. For the three months ended March 31, 2012 and March 26, 2011, we recorded amortization expense of $1.3 million and $1.5 million, respectively. The amortization of intangible assets related to our acquisition of OSI was completed during the three months ended March 26, 2011. These intangible assets related to Occam will amortize over their estimated useful lives. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses The following table sets forth our research and development expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 March 26, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 16,966 $ 15,039 $ 1,927 11 % Percent of total revenue 21.6 % 21.0 % Research and development expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2011, primarily due to an increase in compensation and related costs from an increase in headcount and increased facilities related expenses, resulting from the acquisition of Occam and the expansion of our China development center. In addition we also experienced an increase in prototype and consulting expenses related to new product development and our pursuit of OSMINE certification. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation expense resulting from RSUs granted in a company-wide stock option exchange program which began amortizing at the date of our IPO on March 24, 2010 and were fully vested and amortized in April 2011. Sales and Marketing Expenses The following table sets forth our sales and marketing expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 March 26, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 14,890 $ 12,066 $ 2,824 23 % Percent of total revenue 19 % 16.9 % Sales and marketing expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2011, primarily due to an increase in compensation and related costs, as well as an increase in travel related costs resulting from an increase in headcount resulting from our acquisition of Occam. 26 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth our general and administrative expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 March 26, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 6,780 $ 9,308 $ (2,528 ) (27 )% Percent of total revenue 8.6 % 13 % General and administrative expenses decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2011. The decrease in the first quarter was primarily due to a decrease in stock-based compensation expense resulting from RSUs granted in a company-wide stock option exchange program which began amortizing at the date of our IPO on March 24, 2010 and were fully vested and amortized in April 2011. Merger-related and other expenses The following table sets forth our merger-related and other expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 March 26, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands) Merger-related and other expenses $ $ 6,041 $ (6,041 ) (100 )% In connection with our acquisition of Occam, we incurred operating merger-related and other expenses of $6.0 million, which primarily consist of legal and professional expenses, severance for terminated Occam employees, and salaries paid to transitional Occam employees. In addition, we incurred expenses associated with consolidating facilities and stock-based compensation expense primarily related to accelerated vesting for certain Occam executives that terminated subsequent to the acquisition date. We did not incur any merger related expenses subsequent to 2011. 27 Table of Contents Amortization of Intangible Assets The following table sets forth our amortization of intangible asset expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 March 26, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent (in thousands, except percentages) Amortization of intangible assets $ 2,552 $ 669 $ 1,883 281 % In connection with the acquisition of Occam, $51.0 million of the total purchase price was allocated to the amortizable intangible asset, customer relationships, which are being amortized to operating expenses. In connection with the acquisition of OSI, $3.7 million of the total purchase price was allocated to customer relationships. For the three months ended March 31, 2012 and March 26, 2011, we recorded amortization expense of $2.6 million and $0.7 million, respectively. The amortization of intangible assets related to our acquisition of OSI was completed during the three months ended March 26, 2011. The intangible assets related to Occam will amortize over their estimated useful lives. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2012, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $49.6 million, which primarily consisted of money market mutual funds held at major financial institutions. We have a revolving credit facility of $30.0 million based upon a percentage of eligible accounts receivable. Included in the revolving line are amounts available under letters of credit and cash management services. On February 22, 2011, we completed our acquisition of Occam in a stock and cash transaction valued at approximately $213.1 million. We paid $94.4 million in cash as part of the acquisition cost which was partially funded by cash assumed from Occam of $33.6 million. Operating Activities Our operating activities provided cash of $13.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2012. This resulted primarily from non-cash charges of $10.1 million (the majority of which consist of stock-based compensation expense and depreciation and amortization expense) and positive net changes in operating assets and liabilities, largely offset by our net loss of $7.5 million. Cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included a net decrease of $0.6 million in prepaids and other assets due to the utilization of these assets, $7.4 million related to the sell through of inventory, and an increase in deferred revenue of $4.1 million. Cash outflows from operating activities primarily consisted of an increase in deferred cost of revenue of $1.1 million. Our operating activities provided cash of $2.7 million in the three months ended March 26, 2011. This resulted primarily from non-cash charges of $12.0 million (the majority of which consist of stock-based compensation expense and depreciation and amortization expense) and positive net changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by our net loss of $22.8 million. Cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included an increase in accrued liabilities of $8.1 million primarily due to an increase in compensation related expenses such as our ESPP program which began on December 1, 2010, and an increase in vacation and severance resulting from the increase in headcount primarily related to our acquisition of Occam, a decrease in inventory of $4.4 million compared to the prior quarter from fewer purchases due to typically lower shipment volumes in the first quarter of each fiscal year, a decrease in accounts receivable of $4.2 million due to fewer shipments when compared to the fourth quarter of 2010, an increase in deferred revenue of $3.8 million from an increase in shipments to value-added resellers, or VARs, which is a new sales channel to us resulting from our acquisition of Occam. These inflows were offset by cash outflows resulting from a decrease in accounts payable of $6.1 million primarily due to fewer inventory purchases compared to the prior quarter due to typically lower shipment volumes in the first quarter of each fiscal year, an increase in deferred cost of revenue of $2.1 million related to the increase in deferred revenue from shipments to VARs. VARs were significant to Occam's sales channels and our acquisition of Occam resulted in our increased use of VARs. Stock-based compensation increased significantly from RSUs issued in the stock option exchange program that began vesting upon our IPO in March 2010 and were amortized over an approximately one year period that ended in April 2011. 28 Table of Contents Investing Activities Our cash used in investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2012 consisted of capital expenditures of $3.0 million. Our cash used in investing activities in the three months ended March 26, 2011 primarily consisted of our acquisition of Occam for $60.8 million, net of $33.6 million of Occam cash assumed in the transaction, and capital expenditures of $1.7 million, partially offset by maturities of marketable securities of $22.9 million. Financing Activities Our financing activities provided cash of $0.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2012, which consisted of proceeds from the exercise of stock options by our employees. Our financing activities provided cash of $0.2 million in the three months ended March 26, 2011, which consisted of proceeds from the exercise of stock options by our employees. Working Capital and Capital Expenditure Needs We currently have no material cash commitments, except for normal recurring trade payables, expense accruals, operating leases and firm purchase commitments. In addition, we do not currently anticipate significant investment in property, plant and equipment, and we believe that our outsourced approach to manufacturing provides us significant flexibility in both managing inventory levels and financing our inventory. We may be required to issue performance bonds to satisfy requirements under our RUS-funded contracts. We issue letters of credit under our existing credit facility to support these performance bonds. In the event we do not have sufficient capacity under our credit facility to support these bonds, we will have to purchase certificates of deposit, which could materially impact our working capital or limit our ability to satisfy such contract requirements. At December 31, 2011 we had cash of $0.8 million restricted for the issuance of surety performance bonds we acquired through our acquisition of Occam, There were no restrictions on our cash at March 31, 2012. In the event that our revenue plan does not meet our expectations, we may eliminate or curtail expenditures to mitigate the impact on our working capital. We believe based on our current operating plan, our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and existing amounts available under our revolving line will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the acquisition of new capabilities or technologies and the continued market acceptance of our products. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at March 31, 2012 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 4-5 Years More Than 5 years Operating lease obligations $ 8,102 $ 2,566 $ 4,812 724 $ Firm purchase commitments(1) 4,057 4,057 Total $ 12,159 $ 6,623 4,812 $ 724 $ (1) Represents outstanding non-cancelable purchase orders for finished goods to be delivered by our contract manufacturers. Future minimum lease payments under our lease for our primary office space in Petaluma, California and in Minneapolis, Minnesota, Acton, Massachusetts, Richardson, Texas, Nanjing, China and Fremont and Santa Barbara, California are disclosed in the table above. The above table also includes future minimum lease payments for certain equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements, related to our acquisition of Occam, which expire at various dates through 2015. In February 2009, we entered into a new lease agreement for our primary office in Petaluma that expires in February 2014. We received a lease incentive consisting of $1.2 million in leasehold improvements provided by our lessor. We have capitalized the full amount of the lease incentive and are amortizing the cost of the improvements over the lease term. Our lease in Minneapolis expires in March 2014, our lease in Acton expires in June 2016, our lease in Richardson expires in October 2014, our lease in Nanjing expires in February 2016, our lease in Fremont expires in August 2015 and our lease in Santa Barbara expires in July 2014. 29 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, there were no accounting standard updates that would have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. 30 Table of Contents