Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in this Risk Factors section. Our gross margin is further impacted by customer, geographic and product mix, the impact of competition on our prices, our ability to manage our costs associated with components and materials, excess and obsolescence, expedite fees and logistics-related activities, contractual commitments and other product costs. Fluctuating results make it difficult to predict our future performance and could cause the market price of our stock to decline. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and cash outlays as we seek to expand our business and operations and target new customer opportunities. Given our growth objectives and the intense competitive pressures we face, our operating expenses may increase at unexpected levels, and we may be unable to maintain positive operating income. Comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the market price of our stock would likely decline. We are exposed to customer credit risks that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We generally extend credit terms for sales to our customers which exposes us to credit risk. If we are unable to collect our accounts receivable balances as anticipated, our operating results and financial condition will be harmed. A number of factors contribute to this risk, including our ability to adequately assess a customers creditworthiness and financial condition, changes in a customers financial condition and/or liquidity, our ability to timely collect our accounts receivable from customers, disagreements with customers on invoiced balances and economic downturns or other unanticipated events impacting a customers ability to pay. Furthermore, some of our international customers operate in countries with developing economies, volatile financial markets or currency regulations that impact their ability to make payments in U.S. dollars. While we take measures to pursue collections on our accounts receivable, we have from time to time written down accounts receivable and written off doubtful accounts and may need to do so in future periods. The determination of allowances for doubtful accounts involves significant judgment, and if we underestimate our allowance for doubtful accounts, we will have to make further write-downs. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur and could harm our cash flow or our financial condition. If we lose any of our key personnel, or are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth would be negatively impacted. Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our key personnel who are highly skilled and would be difficult to replace. Competition for skilled personnel, particularly in software and cloud development and engineering, is intense. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, or that newly hired personnel will function effectively, both individually and as a group. If we are unable to effectively recruit, hire and utilize new employees to align with our company objectives, execution of our business strategy and our ability to react to changing market conditions may be impeded, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We operate using a 14 Table of Contents work-from-anywhere model, and if we do not continue to effectively manage our distributed workforce, we could face challenges maintaining our corporate culture, which could increase attrition or limit our ability to attract personnel. None of our key personnel are bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. In addition, we do not currently maintain key person life insurance covering our key personnel. If we lose the services of any key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. If we experience disruptions with our enterprise resource planning system, we may not be able to effectively transact business or produce financial statements, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. In January 2020, we migrated our Oracle enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system to Oracles cloud platform. In 2022, we implemented a software billing application on Salesforce.com. With these implementations, we are highly dependent upon Oracle and Saleforce.com to host, manage and maintain our ERP system and supporting applications. Any disruptions to their business or processes, or delays in their ability to provide services to us, may in turn disrupt our business operations or increase costs. Furthermore, we receive quarterly system updates and enhancements on the cloud platform according to Oracles release timeline and change management processes, which if not managed properly may disrupt our business operations and delay our ability to process transactions and produce reports necessary to conduct our business. We are highly dependent upon our ERP system for critical business functions, including order processing and management, supply chain and procurement operations, financial planning, accounting and reporting; accordingly, protracted disruption in functionality or processing capabilities of the ERP system could materially impair our ability to process transactions timely or produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis. If our systems suffer prolonged interruption, our results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Products Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected hardware or software defects or software bugs, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our products, including our platform (cloud, software and systems) and managed services, are highly technical and, when deployed, are critical to the operation of many networks. Our products have contained and are subject to defects, bugs or security vulnerabilities, which risks may be exacerbated as we continue to expand our cloud and software portfolio and include services from third-party partners. Some defects in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers and may in some cases only be detected under certain circumstances or after extended use. Any errors, bugs, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty and retrofit costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we are subject to claims for security and data breach, product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Our contracts with customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert managements attention and adversely affect the markets perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. If we are unable to ensure that our products interoperate properly and as required within our customers networks, our business will be harmed. Our products must interoperate with our customers existing and planned networks, which often have varied and complex specifications, utilize multiple protocol standards, include software applications and customizations and products from multiple vendors and contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time. As a result, we must continually ensure that our products interoperate properly with these existing and planned networks. To meet these requirements, we must undertake development efforts, including test protocols, that require substantial capital investment and employee resources. We may not accomplish these development goals quickly or cost-effectively, if at all. If we fail to maintain interoperability, we may face substantially reduced demand for our products, which would reduce our revenue opportunities and market share. We rely upon interoperability arrangements with equipment and software vendors for the use or integration of their technology with our products. If these relationships fail, we may have to devote substantially more resources to developing alternative products and processes and our efforts may not be as effective as the combined solutions under our current arrangements. In some cases, these other vendors are either direct competitors or companies that have extensive relationships with our existing and potential customers and influence the purchasing decisions of those customers. Some of our competitors have stronger relationships with some of our interoperability partners, and as a result, our ability to have successful interoperability arrangements with these companies may be harmed, which in turn may harm our ability to successfully sell and market our products. 15 Table of Contents Our estimates regarding warranty or product obligations are highly subjective. If our estimates change, the liability for warranty or product obligations may be increased, impacting future cost of revenue. Our products are highly complex, and our product testing may not be adequate to detect all defects, errors, failures and quality issues. Accordingly, our estimates regarding future warranty or product obligations are highly subjective, and if our estimates change, the liability for warranty or product obligations may be increased, impacting future cost of revenue. Quality or performance problems for products covered under warranty could adversely impact our reputation and negatively affect our operating results and financial position. The development and production of new products with high complexity often involves problems with software, components and manufacturing methods. Any significant warranty or other product obligations due to reliability or quality issues arising from defects in software, faulty components or improper manufacturing methods could negatively impact our operating results and financial position due to costs associated with fixing software or hardware defects; high service and warranty expenses; high inventory obsolescence expense; delays in collecting accounts receivable; payment of liquidated damages for performance failures; and loss of customer goodwill and future sales. Our business and operations depend on proprietary technologies, and our financial performance may suffer if we cannot protect and enforce our IP rights. Our success and ability to compete depend on proprietary technology. We rely significantly upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other IP laws, IP registration rights and agreements with our employees, customers, partners, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain IP rights necessary for our business and operations. U.S. IP laws afford us only limited protection, and the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent or at all. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents, and our issued patents may not be enforceable. Our IP rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, any of which could impair or harm our business and operations and be costly to defend. Our failure to adequately protect our IP rights could result in our competitors offering similar products, resulting in the loss of our competitive advantage and decreased sales. We and our third-party providers may be unable to adequately prevent unauthorized third-party copying or use of our IP. For example, contractual provisions protecting our IP are subject to breach, and our IP is subject to reverse engineering and unlawful distribution. It may become more difficult to adequately protect our IP as we expand our reliance on third parties for the design, development and/or manufacture of our products. In addition, we may become subject to increased risks arising from or related to security breaches, data loss or theft of our data or our IP, and have greater difficulty protecting our IP as our work-from-anywhere workforce and work product become more distributed. Policing the unauthorized use and distribution of our IP is difficult and costly. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs, diversion of resources and harm to our business, may be necessary to enforce our IP rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights. If we are unable to obtain third-party technology licenses needed for our products and platform solutions, our business and operations will be impaired, and our operating results could be adversely affected. We increasingly rely on technology licensed from third parties for our products and platform solutions. We may not be able to secure or maintain necessary technology licenses from these third parties on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Third parties may also choose to not renew licenses with us, demand unreasonable license fees or cease to offer technologies that we require. The inability to obtain necessary third-party licenses or to secure reasonable license terms at a cost acceptable to us could harm the competitiveness of our products and solutions, result in lost revenue and adversely affect our operating results. For example, we may be forced to forego product features or platform offerings, including features and offerings we believe are critical to our strategy, accept substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or incur higher costs, or the time-to-market of our products or product features could be delayed. Furthermore, our ability to utilize third-party technology may be disrupted by disputes over IP rights, including claims of IP infringement, which could prevent us from offering or selling the products that utilize the disputed technology and adversely affect our operating results. Our use of open-source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open-source software into our products. The terms of many open-source software licenses have not been interpreted by the courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to sell our products. In such event, we could be required to make our proprietary software generally available to third parties, including competitors, at no cost, to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or at all, any of which could adversely affect our revenue and operating expenses. 16 Table of Contents Macroeconomic and Industry Risks Adverse global economic, market and industry conditions, geopolitical issues and other conditions that impact our increasingly global operations could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and liquidity. As a global company, our performance is affected by global economic, market and industry conditions as well as geopolitical issues and other conditions with global reach. In recent years, concerns about the global economic outlook, inflation and increased interest rates have adversely affected market and business conditions in general. Macroeconomic weakness and uncertainty make it more difficult for us to manage our operations and accurately forecast revenue, gross margin and operating expenses. Further, bank failures and other adverse developments that affect financial institutions, transactional counterparties, or other third parties, or concerns or rumors about these events, have led to market-wide liquidity problems. Geopolitical issues, such as the Russian invasion of Ukraine, armed conflict in the Middle East, relations between the U.S. and China, tariff and trade policy changes, and increasing potential of conflict involving countries in Asia that are critical to our supply-chain operations, such as Taiwan and China, have resulted in increasing global tensions and create uncertainty for global commerce. In addition, inflation in the United States has affected businesses across many industries, including ours, by increasing the costs of labor, employee healthcare, components and freight and shipping, which may further constrain our customers or prospective customers budgets. To the extent there is a sustained general economic downturn, and our platform and services are perceived by customers or potential customers as costly, or too difficult to deploy or migrate to, our revenue may be disproportionately affected by delays or reductions in spending. Sustained or worsening of global economic conditions and geopolitical issues may increase our cost of doing business, materially disrupt our supply chain operations, cause our customers to reduce or delay spending and intensify pricing pressures. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown, instability or recovery, generally or within any particular industry. If the economic conditions of the general economy or markets in which we operate worsen from present levels, demand for our products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations, could be adversely affected. We face intense competition that could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our financial results. The market for our products is highly competitive, and we expect competition from both established and new companies to increase. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to successfully develop new products and solutions that anticipate BSP and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards; BSP acceptance and adoption of our products and solutions; our ability to differentiate our products from our competitors offerings based on performance, features, cost-effectiveness or other factors; our product capabilities to meet customer network requirements and preferences; and our success in marketing and selling our products and platform solutions. Many of our current or potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, broader product lines, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do and are better positioned to acquire and offer complementary products and services. As the broadband access equipment market has undergone and continues to undergo consolidation, our competitors have merged, grown and been able to offer more comprehensive solutions than they individually had offered. Potential customers may also prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier, regardless of product performance or features, because the products that we and our competitors offer require a substantial investment of time and funds to qualify and install. The demand on network capacity due to remote workforces may attract new market entrants with competitive or substitutive products, which may lead to increased sales cycles, cause pricing pressure and impact adoption of our platform due to the broader availability of product offerings. Some of our competitors may offer substantial discounts or rebates to win or retain customers. If we are forced to reduce prices to retain existing customers or win new customers, we may be unable to sustain gross margin at desired levels or profitability. Competitive pressures could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margin, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our financial results. Historically, our customer base has been concentrated, and the loss of any of our key customers may adversely impact our revenue and results of operations, and any delays in payment by a key customer could negatively impact our cash flows and working capital. Although we have not had a greater-than-10%-of-revenue customer in the past three years, a large portion of our sales has been, and in the future may be, to a limited number of customers. Changes in the BSP market, such as financial difficulties, spending cuts or corporate consolidations that impact purchasing decisions by these customers have and may again negatively impact our revenue, and as a result, revenue from such customers may remain flat or decline. There are no assurances that the demand for our products will remain strong from our key customers, and any decrease or delay in purchases of any of our key customers, particularly if prolonged or sustained, or our inability to grow our sales with them, may have a material negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. As of December 31, 2023, two customers accounted for 19% and 14% of accounts receivable. 17 Table of Contents In addition, some larger customers may demand discounts and rebates or desire to purchase their access systems and software from multiple providers. As a result of these factors, our future revenue opportunities may be limited, and we may face pricing pressures, which in turn could adversely impact our gross margin and our profitability. The loss of, reduction in, or pricing discounts associated with orders from any larger customer could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. Furthermore, delays in payment and/or extended payment terms from any of our larger customers could have a material negative impact on our cash flows and working capital to support our business operations. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological advancements, and if we fail to develop new products or enhancements that meet changing BSP requirements, we could experience lower sales. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changing needs of BSPs, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new products and platform offerings. We invest significant amounts to pursue innovative technologies that we believe will be adopted by BSPs. For example, we have invested and plan to continue to invest resources in our platform offerings. In addition, on an ongoing basis, we expect to reposition our product and service offerings and introduce new offerings as we encounter rapidly changing BSP requirements and increasing competitive pressures. If we cannot increase sales of our new platform and services, keep pace with rapid technological developments to meet customer needs and compete with evolving standards or if the technologies we choose to invest in fail to meet customer needs or are not adopted by customers in the timeframes that we expect, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Developing our products is complex and involves uncertainties, including pricing risks for key materials, component shortages and limited suppliers. We may experience design, manufacturing, software development quality, support, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of new products and enhancements. If we fail to meet our development targets, demand for our products will decline. If we are unable to anticipate and develop new products or enhancements to our existing products on a timely and cost-effective basis, our products may become technologically obsolete more rapidly than anticipated over time, resulting in lower sales which would harm our business. Furthermore, the introduction of new or enhanced products also requires that we manage the transition from older products in accordance with customer requirements. If we fail to maintain compatibility requirements in our customers networks, demand for our products would decline, which would reduce our revenue opportunities and market share. We use third-party development partners both for their key skills and to augment our employee developers. Using third-party development partners for our broadband platform and managed services allow us to accelerate development and leverage the third parties expertise, but increases our risks due to reduced direct control over the third partys work. This product development approach may cause unforeseen issues in product design, as well as challenges arising from integration and support of third-party features in our products. In addition, our revenue based on the third parties product development work may take several years to cover our out-of-pocket expenses, if ever. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our sales are difficult to predict and may vary substantially, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. The timing of our revenue is difficult to predict. Our sales efforts often involve educating BSPs about the use and benefits of our platform (cloud, software and systems) and managed services. BSPs typically undertake a significant evaluation process, which frequently involves not only our platform and managed services, but also those of our competitors and results in a lengthy sales cycle. Sales cycles for larger customers are relatively longer and require considerably more time and expense. We spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce sales. In addition, product purchases are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. The timing of revenue related to sales of products and services that have installation requirements may be difficult to predict due to interdependencies that may be beyond our control, such as BSP testing and turn-up protocols or other vendors products, services or installations of equipment upon which our products and services rely. Such delays may result in fluctuations in our quarterly revenue. If sales expected from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, we may not achieve our revenue forecasts, and our financial results would be adversely affected. Our business depends upon the capital spending patterns and decisions of BSPs, and any decrease or delay in capital spending by BSPs due to the timing and availability of capital and other causes would reduce our revenue and harm our business. Demand for our products depends on the magnitude and timing of capital spending by BSPs as they construct, expand, upgrade and maintain their access networks as well as BSPs adoption of our platform and managed services. Capital spending is cyclical in our industry, sporadic among individual BSPs and can change on short notice, which gives us little visibility into changes in spending behavior in any particular quarter. Capital spending for network infrastructure projects could be delayed or canceled in response to factors outside our control, such as reduced consumer spending, challenging capital markets or declining liquidity trends. BSP spending is also affected by reductions in budgets, including as a result of a general economic downturn, delays in purchasing cycles, access to government funding programs or capital markets, and seasonality and delays in capital allocation decisions. Historically, our customers may spend less or have less deployments in the first quarter due to 18 Table of Contents pending annual budgets or, in certain regions, due to weather conditions that inhibit outside fiber deployment, resulting in weaker demand for our products in the first quarter. Softness in demand in any of our customer markets, including due to macroeconomic conditions beyond our control or uncertainties associated with regulatory reforms, has and could in the future lead to unexpected decline or slowdown in customer capital expenditures. Further, BSPs may pursue capital investment in network technologies other than those offered by us or may choose not to adopt our products and platform solutions in their networks. Reductions in capital expenditures by BSPs would have a material negative impact on our revenue and results of operations and slow our rate of revenue growth. As a consequence, our results for a particular period may be difficult to predict, and our prior results are not necessarily indicative of results in future periods. Government-sponsored programs and U.S. federal government shutdowns could impact the timing and buying patterns of BSPs, which may cause fluctuations in our operating results. We sell to BSPs, including U.S.-based IOCs, which rely significantly upon interstate and intrastate access charges and federal and state subsidies in the form of grants and other funding, such as the Federal Communications Commissions, or FCCs, Rural Digital Opportunity Fund, the CARES Act, Enhanced Alternative Connect America Cost Model, or the American Rescue Plan Act. The FCC and some states may change such payments and subsidies, which could reduce IOC revenue. Furthermore, many IOCs use or expect to use government-supported loan programs or grants, such as U.S. Department of Agricultures Rural Utility Service or the U.S. Department of Commerce National Telecommunications and Information Administrations, or NTIAs, Broadband Equity, Access and Deployment, or BEAD, Program loans and grants, to finance capital spending. These government-supported loan programs and grants generally include conditions such as deployment criteria, domestic preference provisions and other requirements that apply to the project and selected equipment as conditions for funding. For example, the U.S. government recently passed The Infrastructure Investment Jobs Act, which charged the NTIA with establishing the BEAD Program and ensuring that BEAD-funded infrastructure projects comply with the Buy America Domestic Content Procurement Preference, or Buy America Preference, of the Build America, Buy America Act, or BABA. In accordance with BABA, the U.S. Department of Commerce has proposed to issue a limited, general applicability, nonavailability waiver of the Buy America Preference to recipients of Federal financial assistance under the NTIAs BEAD Program. Changes to the terms or administration of these programs, including uncertainty from government and administrative change, increasing focus on domestic requirements by the U.S. that may require re-assessment of compliance, potential funding limitations that impact our ability to meet program requirements or delays due to U.S. federal government shutdowns could reduce the ability of IOCs to access capital or secure funding under these programs to purchase our products and services and thus reduce our revenue opportunities. In addition, compliance with these requirements may significantly increase our record-keeping, accounting and production costs. As a result of these risks, the domestic content requirements may have a material adverse impact on our U.S. sales, business and results of operations. Customers may curtail purchases if they receive less funding than planned, are negatively impacted by federal government shutdowns or changes in government regulations and subsidies, or as funding winds down, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Government and Regulatory Risks Actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable data privacy and security laws, regulations and standards could impact our business, operations, and expose us to increased liability. Government authorities in the United States and around the world have implemented and are continuing to implement broader and more stringent laws and regulations concerning data protection. The interpretation and application of these data protection laws and regulations are often uncertain and changing, and it is possible that they may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. For example, in the U.S., certain states have adopted privacy and security laws and regulations which govern the privacy, processing and protection of personal information. Such laws and regulations will be subject to interpretation by various courts and other governmental authorities, thus creating potentially complex compliance issues for us and our future customers and strategic partners. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, or CCPA, went into effect on January 1, 2020. The CCPA creates individual privacy rights for California consumers and increases the privacy and security obligations of entities handling certain personal information. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that has increased the likelihood of, and risks associated with data breach litigation. Further, the California Privacy Rights Act, or CPRA, generally went into effect on January 1, 2023, and significantly amends the CCPA. It imposes additional data protection obligations on covered businesses, including additional consumer rights processes, limitations on data uses, new audit requirements for higher risk data, and opt outs for certain uses of sensitive data. It also created a new California data protection agency authorized to issue substantive regulations and could result in increased privacy and information security enforcement. Additional compliance investment and potential business process changes may also be required. Similar laws have been passed in other states, and are continuing to be proposed at the state and federal level, reflecting a trend toward more stringent privacy legislation in the United States. Most of the new or proposed laws include restrictions on processing consumer information for targeted advertising, which could negatively affect our marketing cloud products. The enactment of such laws could have potentially conflicting requirements that would make compliance challenging. 19 Table of Contents In the event that we are subject to or affected by the CCPA, the CPRA or other domestic privacy and data protection laws, any liability from failure to comply with the requirements of these laws could adversely affect our financial condition. Furthermore, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and many state Attorneys General continue to enforce federal and state consumer protection laws against companies for online collection, use, dissemination and security practices that appear to be unfair or deceptive. For example, according to the FTC, failing to take appropriate steps to keep consumers personal information secure can constitute unfair acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act. The FTC expects a companys data security measures to be reasonable and appropriate in light of the sensitivity and volume of consumer information it holds, the size and complexity of its business, and the cost of available tools to improve security and reduce vulnerabilities. The General Data Protection Regulation, or EU GDPR, adopted by the European Union, or EU, and the UK General Data Protection Regulation, or UK GDPR, adopted by the United Kingdom, or UK, (the EU GDPR and UK GDPR hereinafter referred to as the GDPR) and national data protection supplementing laws in these jurisdictions impose specific duties and requirements upon companies that are subject to their provisions and collect, process or control personal data of individuals, including a principle of accountability and the obligation to demonstrate compliance through policies, procedures, training and audit. Although we currently do not have material operations or business in the EU or the UK, we are in the process of expanding in these jurisdictions, and we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial costs in this respect. Furthermore, the GDPR imposes significant penalties for noncompliance which can amount to 20 million (for the EU GDPR) or 17.5 million (for the UK GDPR), or in the case of an undertaking, up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher; thus, any non-compliance with the GDPR could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The EU GDPR and UK GDPR regulate cross-border transfers of personal data out of the European Economic Area, or the EEA, and the UK. Case law from the Court of Justice of the European Union, or the CJEU, held that transfers must be assessed on a case-by-case basis and reliance on standard contractual clauses (a standard form of contract approved by the European Commission as an adequate mechanism for personal data transfers) may not be sufficient in all circumstances. On October 7, 2022, President Biden signed an Executive Order on Enhancing Safeguards for United States Intelligence Activities. This introduced new binding safeguards to address the concerns raised by the CJEU in relation to data transfers from the EEA to the United States and formed the basis of the new EU-US Data Privacy Framework, or DPF, which was released on December 13, 2022. The European Commission adopted its Adequacy Decision in relation to the DPF on July 10, 2023, rendering it effective as an EU GDPR transfer mechanism to U.S. entities self-certified under the DPF; further, on October 12, 2023, the UK Extension to the DPF came into effect (as approved by the UK Government), as a UK GDPR data transfer mechanism to U.S. entities self-certified under the UK Extension to the DPF. We currently rely on the standard contractual clauses and the UK International Data Transfer Agreement (or Addendum) to transfer personal data outside the EEA and the UK respectively, including to the U.S. The data transfers enforcement landscape and the DPFs longer term stability remain uncertain and we expect the existing legal complexity and uncertainty regarding international personal data transfers to continue. As the regulatory guidance and enforcement landscape in relation to data transfers further develops, our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our current contracts may not be sufficient, and we could suffer additional costs, complaints and/or regulatory investigations or fines. We may also have to stop using certain tools and vendors and make other operational changes. We have had to and will have to implement standard contractual clauses and/or the UK equivalent mechanism for intragroup, customer and vendor arrangements. Further, our customers may not use our services in a manner that is compliant with applicable data privacy laws and regulations and our services may not be competitive in certain markets. We and/or our customers are also subject to evolving EU and UK privacy laws on cookies, tracking technologies, e-marketing and electronic communications. Recent European court and regulator decisions are driving increased attention to cookies and tracking technologies. If the trend of increasing enforcement by regulators of the strict approach to opt-in consent for all but essential use cases, as seen in recent guidance and decisions continues, this could lead to substantial costs, require significant systems changes, limit the effectiveness of marketing activities conducted on behalf of our customers, divert the attention of our technology personnel, adversely affect our margins, and subject us to additional liabilities. In addition, new security regulations, such as the EUs Network and Information Security 2 Directive (NIS2) and the UKs Telecommunications (Security) Act 2021 together with its implementing regulations impose further security obligations, including on electronic communications networks and services. We may be required to implement (and contractually commit to) additional security measures to remain a competitive vendor, as customers will need to ensure their vendors are able to meet the obligations that they are themselves subject to, or customers may choose different vendors due to our security measures. This could result in additional costs and require operational changes which could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. In light of the complex and evolving nature of EU, EU Member State and UK privacy and security laws, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in our efforts to comply with such laws; violations of such laws could result in regulatory investigations, fines, orders to cease/change our use of technologies and/or our processing activities, enforcement notices and assessment notices (for a compulsory audit), as well as lead to civil claims including class actions, and reputational damage. 20 Table of Contents Complying with new and changing laws could cause us to incur substantial costs in order to market and sell our cloud-based solutions in the U.S. and internationally, deter customers from adopting our cloud-based solutions or require us to redesign our platform in order to meet customer requirements related to such laws. Regulatory actions or claims involving our practices in the collection, storage, processing, use or disclosure of consumer information or other personal data, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. The failure or perceived failure to comply may result in government or civil proceedings or actions against us, or could cause us to lose customers, which could have an adverse effect on our business. If we fail to comply with evolving industry standards, sales of our products would be adversely affected. Our products are subject to a significant number of domestic and international standards, which evolve as new technologies are developed and deployed. As we expand into new global markets, we are likely to encounter additional standards. Our products must comply with these standards in order to be widely marketable. In some cases, we are required to obtain certifications or authorizations before our products can be introduced, marketed or sold in new markets or to new customers. For example, our ability to maintain Operations System Modification for Intelligent Network Elements certification for our products will affect our ongoing ability to continue to sell our products to large BSPs. In addition, our ability to expand our international operations may be limited by standards in countries or may require us to redesign our products or develop new products to meet local standards. We may not be able to design our products to comply with local requirements, which would impede or prevent our ability to grow our business in those locations. Moreover, as we expand our business and operations globally, we must increase investments to maintain compliance with evolving standards across all of our markets. The costs of complying with evolving standards or failure to obtain timely authorizations or certification could prevent us from selling our products where these standards or regulations apply, which would result in lower revenue and lost market share. Our failure or the failure of our manufacturers to comply with environmental and other legal regulations could adversely impact our results of operations. The manufacture, assembly and testing of our products may require the use and disposal of hazardous materials that are subject to environmental, health and safety regulations, or materials subject to laws restricting the use of conflict minerals. We substantially depend upon our third-party manufacturers to comply with these requirements. Any failure by us or our third-party manufacturers to comply with these requirements could result in regulatory penalties, legal claims or disruption of production of our products. In addition, any failure to properly manage the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, recycling or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or liabilities. Existing and future environmental regulations and other legal requirements may restrict our use of certain materials to manufacture, assemble and test products. Any of these consequences could adversely impact our results of operations by increasing our expenses and/or requiring us to alter our manufacturing processes. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in additional international markets. Our products are subject to U.S. export and trade controls and restrictions. International shipments of certain of our products may require export licenses or are subject to additional export requirements. In addition, the import laws of other countries may limit our ability to distribute our products, or our customers ability to buy and use our products, in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations or duties may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations, duties or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could negatively impact our ability to sell, profitably or at all, our products to existing or potential international customers. Regulatory and physical impacts of climate change and other natural events may affect our customers and our manufacturers, resulting in adverse effects on our operating results. As emissions of greenhouse gases continue to alter the composition of the atmosphere, affecting large-scale weather patterns and the global climate, any new regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may result in additional costs to our customers and our manufacturers. In addition, the physical impacts of climate change and other natural events, including changes in weather patterns, drought, rising ocean and temperature levels, earthquakes and tsunamis may impact our customers, suppliers and manufacturers and our operations. These potential physical effects may adversely affect our revenue, costs, production and delivery schedules, and cause harm to our results of operations and financial condition. Our customers are subject to government regulation, and changes in current or future laws or regulations that negatively impact our customers could harm our business. Many of our customers are subject to state and federal regulation of their businesses, and adoption of regulations that affect providers of broadband Internet access services could impede the penetration of our customers into certain markets. For 21 Table of Contents example, the FCC has jurisdiction over many of our U.S. customers, and FCC regulatory policies that create disincentives for investment in access network infrastructure or impact the competitive environment in which our customers operate may harm our business. Moreover, various international regulatory bodies have jurisdiction over certain of our customers outside the U.S. Changes in any of these standards, laws and regulations, or judgments in favor of plaintiffs in lawsuits against BSPs based on changed standards, laws and regulations could adversely affect the development of broadband networks and services. This, in turn, could directly or indirectly adversely impact the industries in which our customers operate. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock and Other Risks Our stock price may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include those discussed above and others such as quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; failure to meet any guidance that we have previously provided regarding our anticipated results; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; failure to meet securities analysts estimates; announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, acquisitions or capital commitments; developments with respect to IP rights; our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; our commencement of, or involvement in, litigation and developments relating to such litigation; changes in governmental regulations; and a slowdown in the communications industry or the general economy. The stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price and volatility of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Historically, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, there is increased risk that stockholders may initiate securities class action litigation against the company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and may lead to entrenchment of our management and Board of Directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management or our Board of Directors. These provisions include: (1) a classified Board of Directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our Board of Directors; (2) no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; (3) the exclusive right of our Board of Directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors; (4) the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; (5) a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; (6) the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the Board of Directors, the chief executive officer or the Board of Directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and (7) advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our Board of Directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirers own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which prohibits a corporation, in general, from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the Board of Directors has approved the transaction. We may need additional capital in the future to finance our business. While our working capital needs to support our business operations and growth have been funded from operating cash flows in the near term, we may need additional capital if our current plans and assumptions change. If our financial position deteriorates, we may not be able to secure a source of financing to support our working capital needs on acceptable terms or at all. If future financings involve the issuance of equity securities, our then-existing stockholders will suffer dilution. If we raise debt financing, we may be subject to restrictive covenants that limit our ability to conduct our business. If we are unable to sustain positive operating income and cash flows from operations, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Furthermore, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to support our operational needs, we may need to cease our common stock repurchase program or seek additional sources of liquidity, including borrowings, to support our working capital needs, even if we believe we have generated sufficient cash flows to support our operational needs. There is no assurance that any other sources of liquidity may be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to generate 22 Table of Contents sufficient cash flows or obtain other sources of liquidity, we will be forced to limit our development activities, reduce our investment in growth initiatives and institute cost-cutting measures, all of which would adversely impact our business and growth. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, our stockholders ability to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not currently intend to pay a cash dividend on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, our stockholders are not likely to receive any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Our failure to adequately address and resolve risks and uncertainties associated with acquisitions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may acquire businesses, products or technologies to expand our product offerings and capabilities, customer base and business. We have evaluated and expect to continue to evaluate a wide array of potential strategic transactions. Such investments may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, unanticipated costs, and legal and regulatory challenges, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the anticipated benefit of any acquisition may never materialize or the process of integrating acquired businesses, products or technologies may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. We cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be utilized to the full value approved or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. Repurchases we consummate could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and could have a negative impact on our available cash balance. We have a common stock repurchase program of which $113.6 million was available as of December 31, 2023. Under the repurchase program, repurchases can be made from time to time using a variety of methods, which may include open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, all in accordance with the rules of the SEC and other applicable legal requirements. The specific timing, price and size of the purchases will depend on prevailing stock prices, general economic and market conditions, and other considerations consistent with our capital allocation strategy. Stock repurchases could have an impact on our common stock trading prices, increase the volatility of the price of our common stock, or reduce our available cash balance such that we will be required to seek financing to support our operations. The repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire a particular amount of common stock, and the repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion, which may result in a decrease in the trading prices of our common stock. Even if our share repurchase program is fully implemented, it may not enhance long-term stockholder value. General Risks As a public company, we are subject to significant accounting, legal and regulatory requirements; our failure to comply with these requirements may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to significant accounting, legal and regulatory requirements, including requirements and rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or SOX, and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank, among other rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, as well as listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. We incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses and must invest substantial time and resources to comply with public company reporting and compliance requirements, including costs to ensure we have adequate internal controls over accounting and financial reporting, proper documentation and testing procedures among other requirements. We cannot be certain that the actions we have taken to implement internal controls over financial reporting will be sufficient. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal financial and accounting