ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenue or other financial items, any statement of or concerning the following: the plans and objectives of management for future operations, proposed new products or licensing, product development, anticipated customer demand or capital expenditures, anticipated growth and trends in our business and industry, future economic and/or market conditions or performance and assumptions underlying any of the above. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as could, may, will, would, expects, believes, intends, plans, anticipates, estimates, projects, predicts, potential, or continue or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, including those identified in the Risk Factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A, of this report on Form 10-Q, as well as in other sections of this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 . All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or reasons why actual results might differ. Overview We are a leading global provider of cloud and software platforms, systems and services for fiber- and copper-based network architectures and a pioneer in software defined access and cloud products focused on access networks and the subscriber. Our portfolio allows for a broad range of subscriber services to be provisioned and delivered over a single unified network. Our access systems can deliver voice and data services, advanced broadband services, mobile broadband, as well as high-definition video and online gaming. Our most recent generation of premises systems enable CSPs to address the complexity of the smart home and business and offer new services to their device enabled subscribers. We have designed all of our current platforms and related systems so that they can be monitored, analyzed, managed and supported by Calix Cloud. We market our cloud and software platforms, systems and services to CSPs globally through our direct sales force as well as select resellers. Our customers range from smaller, regional CSPs to some of the worlds largest CSPs. We have enabled approximately 1,600 customers to deploy passive optical, Active Ethernet and point-to-point Ethernet fiber access networks. Beginning in 2018, the United States enacted a series of tariffs on certain goods manufactured in China. As a result of these tariffs, we incurred U.S. tariff and tariff-related costs of $6.2 million in 2019 and $1.0 million in 2020. In order to mitigate the impact of the tariffs enacted by the United States, we undertook a broad plan to realign our global supply chain by moving substantially all of our production outside of China in addition to other supply chain improvements in the first half of 2019. As a result of the tariffs imposed on a broader list of products in September 2019, we expanded the scope of our global supply chain realignment plan, which is expected to take until the end of 2020 to complete. Our revenue and potential revenue growth will depend on our ability to sell and license our cloud and software platforms, systems and services to strategically aligned customers, including from market segments such as cable MSOs, WISPs, fiber overbuilders, municipalities and electric cooperatives, in the United States and internationally. Revenue fluctuations result from many factors, including, but not limited to: increases or decreases in customer orders for our products and services, market, financial or other factors that may delay or materially impact customer purchasing decisions including as a result of uncertainty related to the COVID-19 pandemic, non-availability of products due to supply chain challenges including business closures, manufacturing disruptions and component shortages due to the COVID-19 pandemic, contractual terms with customers that result in delayed revenue recognition and varying budget cycles and seasonal buying patterns of our customers. More specifically, our customers tend to spend less in the first quarter as they are finalizing their annual budgets, and in certain regions, customers are challenged by winter weather conditions that inhibit fiber deployment in outside infrastructure. Our revenue is also dependent upon our customers timing of purchases, capital expenditure plans and decisions to upgrade their network or adopt new technologies, including adoption of our software and cloud platform solutions, as well as our ability to grow our customer base. Cost of revenue is strongly correlated to revenue and tends to fluctuate due to all of the above factors that may cause revenue fluctuations. Factors that impacted our cost of revenue for the three months ended March 28, 2020 , and that we expect will impact cost of revenue in future periods, also include: changes in the mix of products delivered, customer location and regional mix, changes in product warranty and incurrence of retrofit costs, changes in the cost of our inventory, including higher costs due to materials shortages including components, supply constraints or unfavorable changes in trade policies, investments to 17 Table of Contents support expansion of cloud and customer support offerings, tariffs and associated costs to mitigate the impact of tariffs, amortization of intangibles, asset write-offs, silicon support fees and inventory write-downs. In particular, recently we have seen increases in global freight charges following Chinas reopening of manufacturing. Cost of revenue also includes fixed expenses related to our internal operations, which could increase our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue if there are declines in revenue. Our gross profit and gross margin fluctuate based on timing of factors such as new product introductions or upgrades to existing products, changes in customer mix and changes in the mix of products demanded and sold (and any related write-downs of existing inventory) and have in the past been negatively impacted by increases in mix of revenue towards professional services, increases in mix of revenue from channel sales rather than direct sales or other unfavorable customer or product mix, shipment volumes and any related volume discounts, changes in our product and services costs, pricing decreases or discounts, customer rebates and incentive programs due to competitive pressure or materials shortages, supply constraints, investments to support expansion of cloud and customer support offerings, tariffs or unfavorable changes in trade policies. Our operating expenses fluctuate based on the following factors among others: changes in headcount and personnel costs, which comprise a significant portion of our operating expenses; variable compensation due to fluctuations in shipment volumes or level of achievement against performance targets; timing of research and development expenses, including investments in innovative solutions and new customer segments, prototype builds and outsourced development resources; asset write-offs; investments in our business and information technology infrastructure; and fluctuations in stock-based compensation expenses due to timing of equity grants or other factors affecting vesting. Our net loss was $6.9 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 , respectively, compared to a net loss of $9.8 million for the three months ended March 30, 2019 , respectively. Since our inception we have incurred significant losses, and as of March 28, 2020 , we had an accumulated deficit of $709.5 million . Further, as a result of factors contributing to the fluctuations described above among other factors, many of which are outside our control, our quarterly operating results fluctuate from period to period. Comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. COVID-19 Pandemic We are subject to risks and uncertainties as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business is highly uncertain and difficult to predict, as the response to the pandemic is in its early stages and information is rapidly evolving. We have instituted office closures, implemented shelter-in-place orders and restrictions and instituted a mandatory work from home policy for substantially all of our employees. The spread of COVID-19 has impacted our supply chain operations through restrictions and shutdown of business activities by suppliers whom we rely on for sourcing components and materials and third-party partners whom we rely on for manufacturing, warehousing and logistics services. While we experienced and continue to experience the effects of a supply disruption, it did not have a significant impact on our first quarter of 2020 results. At the same time, the demand for products in the telecommunications industry, including for our products, has remained strong as subscribers seek more bandwidth and better WiFi, exacerbating the impact of the supply disruption. As the global response to address the COVID-19 pandemic evolves, we believe societal behaviors will accelerate and increase demands on the access infrastructure, which would have a favorable impact on the business outlook for Calix. However, in the near term, the impact to the overall economy and its effect on consumer buying decisions create significant uncertainty, which could in turn negatively impact our revenue and results of operations. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic may materially impact our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations is uncertain. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates and judgments that can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. Management bases its estimates, assumptions and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial statements may be affected. Our management evaluates its estimates, assumptions and judgments on an ongoing basis. Our critical accounting policies and estimates, which are revenue recognition and inventory valuation, are described under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 . For the three months ended March 28, 2020 , there have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates. 18 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements There have been no additional accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting pronouncements during the three months ended March 28, 2020 , as compared to the recent accounting pronouncements described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 , that are significant or potentially significant to us. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019 Revenue Our revenue is comprised of the following: Systems include revenue from the sale of access and premises systems, software platform licenses and cloud-based software subscriptions. Services include revenue from professional services, customer support, software- and cloud-based maintenance, extended warranty subscriptions, training and managed services. The following table sets forth our revenue (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Revenue: Systems $ 94,509 $ 82,360 $ 12,149 15 % Services 7,173 6,990 183 3 % $ 101,682 $ 89,350 $ 12,332 14 % Percent of total revenue: Systems 93 % 92 % Services 7 % 8 % 100 % 100 % Our revenue increased by $12.3 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 , as compared to the corresponding period in 2019 due to higher systems revenue of $12.1 million and higher services revenue of $0.2 million . The increase in systems revenue was primarily due to higher revenue from our small, regional customers and to a lesser extent our medium-sized incumbent local exchange carrier, or ILEC, customers. Revenue in first quarter of 2019 was impacted by production challenges and delays associated with our global supply chain realignment efforts. Services revenue was relatively flat compared to the same period in 2019. For the three months ended March 28, 2020 , revenue generated in the United States was $88.1 million , or 87% of our total revenue, compared to $75.8 million , or 85% of our total revenue, for the same period in 2019 . International revenue was $13.6 million , or 13% of our total revenue, for the three months ended March 28, 2020 , as compared to $13.6 million , or 15% of our total revenue, for the same period in 2019 . Only CenturyLink, Inc. accounted for more than 10% of the Company's total revenue, representing 15% and 14% of total revenue for the first quarter of 2020 and 2019, respectively. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin The following table sets forth our cost of revenue (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Cost of revenue: Systems $ 50,708 $ 44,601 $ 6,107 14 % Services 5,350 6,406 (1,056 ) (16 )% $ 56,058 $ 51,007 $ 5,051 10 % 19 Table of Contents Our cost of revenue increase d by $5.1 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 as compared with the corresponding period in 2019 . The $6.1 million increase in our systems cost of revenue was consistent with the increase in revenue for the three months ended March 28, 2020 compared with the corresponding period in 2019 . The decrease in services cost of revenue was mainly due to reduced personnel costs for the three months ended March 28, 2020 compared with the corresponding period in 2019 . The following table sets forth our gross profit and gross margin (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Gross profit: Systems $ 43,801 $ 37,759 $ 6,042 16 % Services 1,823 584 1,239 212 % $ 45,624 $ 38,343 $ 7,281 19 % Gross margin: Systems 46.3 % 45.8 % Services 25.4 % 8.4 % Overall 44.9 % 42.9 % Gross profit increase d to $45.6 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 , from $38.3 million during the corresponding period in 2019 primarily due to higher systems and services gross margin. During the three months ended March 28, 2020 , systems gross margin was negatively impacted by U.S. tariff and tariff-related costs of $1.0 million , or 100 basis points, and intangible asset amortization of $0.7 million, or 70 basis points. Excluding the impact of U.S. tariff and tariff-related costs and intangible assets amortization, systems gross margin was 48.1% for the three months ended March 28, 2020 . During the three months ended March 30, 2019 , systems gross margin was negatively impacted by U.S. tariff and tariff-related costs of $2.2 million , or 260 basis points. There was no intangible asset amortization in the three months ended March 30, 2019 . Excluding the impact of U.S. tariff and tariff-related costs, systems gross margin was 48.5% for the three months ended March 30, 2019 . Systems gross margin excluding U.S. tariff and tariff-related costs and intangible assets amortization declined 40 basis points for the three months ended March 28, 2020 compared the corresponding period in 2019 , mainly due to a less favorable customer and product mix, partially offset by continued growth in our all-platform offerings. Services gross margin increased for the three months ended March 28, 2020 compared to the corresponding period in 2019 due to lower personnel costs as our service revenue mix shifts away from low gross margin deployment services to higher gross margin software maintenance and services aligned with our platform offerings. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses The following table sets forth our research and development expenses (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Research and development $ 20,671 $ 19,330 $ 1,341 7 % Percent of total revenue 20 % 22 % Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 28, 2020 increased by $1.3 million as compared with the corresponding period in 2019 mainly due to higher personnel expenses of $1.1 million, primarily related to incentive compensation expense in 2020 compared to no incentive compensation earned in the year ago period, and higher outside services expenses of $0.7 million. This increase was partially offset by decreases in equipment expenses of $0.2 million. 20 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Expenses The following table sets forth our sales and marketing expenses (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Sales and marketing $ 20,624 $ 19,339 $ 1,285 7 % Percent of total revenue 20 % 22 % Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 28, 2020 increased by $1.3 million as compared with the corresponding period in 2019 primarily due to higher personnel costs of $1.0 million , resulting from increased headcount and to a lesser extent incentive compensation, and higher marketing costs of $0.6 million. This increase was partially offset by decreases in travel expenses of $0.2 million. General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth our general and administrative expenses (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent General and administrative $ 10,669 $ 8,787 $ 1,882 21 % Percent of total revenue 10 % 10 % General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 28, 2020 increased by $1.9 million as compared with the corresponding period in 2019 mainly due to an increase in personnel costs of $1.2 million, primarily related to incentive compensation expense in 2020 compared to no incentive compensation earned in the year ago period, and the initial capitalized cloud-computing amortization of $0.8 million as our cloud-based ERP system went live in January of 2020. Provision for Income Taxes The following table sets forth our provision for income taxes (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Provision for income taxes $ 329 $ 155 $ 174 112 % Effective tax rate (5.0 )% (1.6 )% The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 28, 2020 was determined using an estimated annual effective tax rate adjusted for discrete items, if any, that occurred during the respective periods. Deferred tax assets are recognized if realization of such assets is more likely than not. We have established and continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets, with the exception of certain foreign deferred tax assets, as we do not believe that realization of those assets is more likely than not. Our effective tax rate may be subject to fluctuation during the year as new information is obtained, which may affect the assumptions used to estimate the annual effective tax rate, including factors such as the mix of forecasted pre-tax earnings in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, the recognition or de-recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions and changes in or the interpretation of tax laws in jurisdictions where we conduct business. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have funded our operations and investing activities primarily through cash generated from operations, borrowings on our line of credit, financing arrangements for certain lab equipment and consulting services and sales of our common stock. As of March 28, 2020 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $46.2 million , which consisted of deposits held at banks held at major financial institutions. 21 Table of Contents Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.2 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 and consisted of $6.5 million of non-cash charges and $1.7 million of cash flow increases reflected in the net change in assets and liabilities, partially offset by a net loss of $6.9 million . Cash flow increases resulting from the net change in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in accounts payable of $9.5 million , primarily due to timing of payments to our contract manufacturers, or CMs, a decrease in inventory of $9.6 million due to lower deliveries due to the supply disruption during of the quarter, an increase in deferred revenue of $2.1 million mainly due to increased Calix Cloud subscriptions and an increase in accrued liabilities of $1.4 million due to an increase in inventory held by suppliers. This was partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $20.6 million , mainly due to timing of shipments and delays in processing invoices due to the ERP migration. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation of $3.0 million and depreciation and amortization of $3.5 million . During the three months ended March 30, 2019 , net cash used in operating activities was $0.4 million and consisted of a net loss of $9.8 million partially offset by $3.9 million of cash flow increases reflected in the net change in assets and liabilities and by $5.5 million of non-cash charges. Cash flow increases resulting from the net change in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a decrease in accounts receivable of $11.8 million, mainly due to lower sales, a decrease in inventory of $2.9 million, primarily due to unavailability of finished goods from our supply chain partners, and an increase in deferred revenue of $0.7 million due to increased sales of license subscriptions and related support. This was partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable of $6.3 million, primarily due to a commensurate decline in cost of revenue, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.9 million, mainly due to inventory sold to a CM and not yet paid, a decrease in other long-term liabilities of $1.7 million, mainly due to the amortization of operating lease liabilities, and a decrease in accrued liabilities of $1.6 million, mainly related to a decrease in accrued professional and consulting fees and a decrease in accrued business events. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation of $3.1 million and depreciation and amortization of $2.3 million. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $1.7 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 consisted of capital expenditures primarily for purchases of test equipment, computer equipment and software. Net cash used in investing activities of $5.0 million for the three months ended March 30, 2019 consisted of capital expenditures primarily for purchases of test equipment, computer equipment and software. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $0.1 million for the three months ended March 28, 2020 mainly consisted of proceeds from the issuance of common stock from stock option exercises of $1.1 million offset by payments related to financing arrangements of $0.8 million and payments to originate the credit line of $0.2 million. Net cash used in financing activities of $0.4 million for the three months ended March 30, 2019 mainly consisted of payments for financing arrangements of $0.7 million partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of common stock from stock option exercises of $0.3 million. Working Capital and Capital Expenditure Needs Our material cash commitments include contractual obligations under our Bank of America Loan Agreement, or BofA Loan Agreement, obligations from financing arrangements, minimum revenue-share obligations, normal recurring trade payables, compensation-related and expense accruals, operating leases and non-cancelable firm purchase commitments. We believe that our outsourced approach to manufacturing provides us significant flexibility in both managing inventory levels and financing our inventory. In the event that our revenue plan does not meet our expectations, we may be required to eliminate or curtail expenditures to mitigate the impact on our working capital. In January 2020, we terminated the Silicon Valley Bank Loan Agreement and entered into a new loan and security agreement with Bank of America, N.A. The BofA Loan Agreement provides for a revolving facility up to a principal amount of up to $35.0 million, including a $10.0 million sublimit for letters of credit. The BofA Loan Agreement matures, and all outstanding amounts become due and payable, in January 2023. The BofA Loan Agreement is secured by substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property. Loans under the credit facility will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to LIBOR (customarily defined) plus an applicable margin between 1.50% to 2.25% and Prime Rate (customarily defined) plus an applicable margin between 0.50% to 1.25%, in each case largely based on a fixed charge coverage ratio measured at the end of each fiscal quarter. The availability of borrowings under the BofA Loan Agreement is subject to certain conditions and requirements, including among others, if at any time our availability is less than $5.0 million, we must maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, or FCCR, of 1.0 to 1.0. As of March 28, 2020 , we were in compliance with these requirements, had 22 Table of Contents borrowings outstanding of $30.0 million , availability of $5.0 million and an FCCR of 7.9 to 1.0. Our interest rate on the line of credit was 4.5% as of March 28, 2020 . During 2018, we entered into financing arrangements to purchase lab equipment for approximately $5.1 million. Each agreement is to be paid over 36 months with a weighted average interest rate of 6.2%. As of March 28, 2020 , we had $2.5 million outstanding under these financing arrangements. During 2017, 2018 and 2019, in connection with our ERP implementation, we entered into financing arrangements for consulting services of $5.4 million. The current amounts due under this agreement are to be paid over a weighted average term of 2.4 years with a weighted average interest rate of 6.5%. As of March 28, 2020 , there was $1.8 million outstanding under this arrangement. I n March 2018, the Company entered into an agreement with a vendor to develop software products pursuant to which the Company will become obligated, if the vendor delivered software that meets the Company's technical requirements for commercial sale, to make minimum revenue-share payments of $15.8 million over the subsequent three years. The payments are based on a revenue-share rate applied to revenue from developed product sales subject to a minimum and a maximum aggregate amount over the three-year sales period. We had our first sale in August 2019. Revenue-share payments are paid quarterly in arrears, and we began making payments in the first quarter of 2020. We believe, based on our current operating plan and expected operating cash flows, that our existing cash and cash equivalents, along with available borrowings under our BofA Loan Agreement, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth; timing of customer payments and payment terms, particularly of larger customers; the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, particularly research and development related to growth initiatives such as our software and cloud platforms, and our ability to partner with third parties to outsource our research and development projects; our ability to manage product cost, including the cost impact of the U.S. tariffs as well as our ability to continue to mitigate the cost impact through supply chain re-engineering, the possibility of additional tariffs that may impact our product costs and higher component costs associated with new technologies; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, our ability to implement efficiencies and maintain product margin levels; the expansion of sales and marketing activities; the success of revenue share programs; the timing of introductions and timing and rate of customer adoption of new products and enhancements to existing products; the slowdowns or declines in customer purchases of traditional systems; acquisition of new capabilities or technologies; and the continued market acceptance of our products. If we are unable to execute on our current operating plan or generate positive operating income and positive cash flows, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected and we may fail to meet the borrowing base requirements or comply with the covenants in the BofA Loan Agreement, in which case we may not be able to borrow under the BofA line of credit. We may need to seek other sources of liquidity, including the sale of equity or incremental borrowings, to support our working capital needs. In addition, we may choose to seek other sources of liquidity even if we believe we have generated sufficient cash flows to support our operational needs. There is no assurance that any other sources of liquidity may be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain other sources of liquidity, we will be forced to limit our development activities, reduce our investment in growth initiatives and institute cost-cutting measures, all of which may adversely impact our business and potential growth. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments as of March 28, 2020 consisted of our contractual obligations under the BofA Loan Agreement, financing arrangements, operating leases for office space and non-cancelable outstanding purchase obligations. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at March 28, 2020 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than 5 Years Line of credit, including interest (1) $ 33,828 $ 1,350 $ 32,478 $ $ Financing arrangements (2) 20,350 4,757 15,593 Operating lease obligations (3) 19,758 3,779 7,025 6,867 2,087 Non-cancelable purchase commitments (4) 74,911 74,911 $ 148,847 $ 84,797 $ 55,096 $ 6,867 $ 2,087 (1) Line of credit contractual obligations include projected interest payments over the term of the BofA Loan Agreement, assuming the interest rate in effect for the outstanding borrowings as of March 28, 2020 of 4.5% and payment of the borrowings on January 27, 2023, the contractual maturity date of the credit facility. See Note 5, Credit Agreements of the 23 Table of Contents Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion regarding our contractual obligations relating to our line of credit. (2) Represents installment payments, including interest, related to financing arrangements and estimated total minimum revenue-share obligations under the program, including imputed interest, of $15.8 million associated with developed software product and related enhancements by an engineering service provider of which approximately $12.8 million has been incurred. The schedule reflects our expected revenue-share payments based on our revenue projections for the developed products over a three-year sales period. If the minimum revenue-share payments are not achieved by the end of the three-year sales period, a true-up payment will be due. (3) Future minimum operating lease obligations in the table above include primarily payments for our office locations, which expire at various dates through 2025. See Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion regarding our operating leases. (4) Represents outstanding purchase commitments for inventory to be delivered by our third-party manufacturers. See Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion regarding our outstanding purchase commitments. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 28, 2020 and December 31, 2019 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.